tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 123°th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Silverhall MP Kemalettin Aydın, who wants to speak about proposals to address problems in the Silver House. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the title of my speech is not the problems in the Silver House, but the solutions to the problems in Turkey, I want to start by correcting it. For twelve years, the Silverhouse has grown with great acceleration in transport, in education, in health care, in order to meet itself with other provinces of Turkey and the provinces of Western communities. He doesn't have a big problem at the moment, and his current problems are being solved within him. But here, we wanted to share with our dear national and national and regional and global friends in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey how Silverhane and my brothers from Silvershop stood in local, general, national, regional and global problems. In particular, I wanted to share with you how the Silverhalls behaved, how they felt, how they reacted in recent years, in the cases of the Blue Marmara, in the events of the Travel, in the attempts of the coup, on 17th, 25 December, and in the case of the pregnant women of Gaza, in the last few days, in the case of their desire to commit genocide. Following a declaration that all political parties met and condemned Israel in an environment where Israel's MPs in particular protested the cruelty of Israel, the Turkish Assembly of the Great National Assembly, and today the press statement of MPs and political party groups, and today the Human Rights Review Commission on this issue, as well as a statement of respect for the people of Silverhane as the leader of Islam's geography against the persecution of Israel, even if only one of our Prime Minister in the world. In particular, there was respect for the national will and New Turkey platform against coup attempts on December 17th and December 25th and the destruction of Turkey's future, and these meetings were held in all districts to strengthen the public's feelings of being informed and having the will of the nation. Again, the national willede platform was formed from around 30 NGOs, and after continuing its briefings, in Ramazan, the national will platform gave the slander, which was in all the political parties that have ever existed in our city, with political backgrounds, with conviction, and in civil society organizations, and made it clear that the presence of the Silversmiths in Turkey had joined that iftara. Again, last week, in Zafer Square, one of the main squares of the Silver House, all the political parties of the Gümşhane were gathered together and together with the NGOs of Israel held a rally of wire and condemned the massacres of Israel through written and visual media. We want our entire nation to know that the people's will in recent years has been reflected in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and that the country has advanced rapidly in becoming regional leader and world leader and that Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is the head of this march, is behind the stand. In particular, the children with pacifiers in Palestine lie behind the presence of the Silversites in front of the children who were slaughtered without even the main milk: There is another situation behind the declaration of the Turkish Parliament or walking to the consulate's residence or rallying the wire. Turkey's stable and secure growth is necessary to continue, that Turkey's fast march along the world's leadership should never stop, that from the moment it was born, it would stand behind a leader like Erdogan, all the Silverhouse NGOs and the National Willing Platform.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır, who asked for a statement about the situation of Iraqi Turkmen. Here you go, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0004par0029	Thank you, my dear President. We have to believe what Kamalettin Hoxha says, the Silver House has no problems, but the good lawmakers, our district is apocalypse. Let's not get our heads in the sand. All the people around us live in the apocalypse, no ethnic differences, no beliefs, no difference. Every time, what happened in Gaza is expressed here through every member of our parliament, but immediately beyond our borders, in Iraq, I would like to present the experience of our descendants, the Turkmen, to your knowledge and appreciation. On 10 June 2014, beyond terrorism, a group of killers who attacked Mosul (Islamic State of Islam), claiming to become a jihad for this, as we call them, called the "Ishud" (DEASISH) -- not to mention anything else -- are being experienced in Turkmeneli, Iraq, from the occupation of the hordes of murderers who can kill people without any faith. The Turkmen were first driven from their land, very consciously, by shifting populations... this project is not only the atrocities of ISIS, but also the implementation of projects beyond that. So ISIS gives priority to all who live there, to Assyria, to Süryani, to Keldani, to all Christians, even to the Ezidis, to the Shebaks, to all people, to the Arabs, to the Turks, to the Turks, to the Turkmen, and to the Turkmens. This land, unfortunately, isil, because they are Shiites, slaughters Turkmen in Telafer, drives from their territory, but the central administration of Iraq is attacking Sunni Turkmen in Telafer, because it is Shii this time. As a result, both the Shii (Sui), Sunni (Sunni) and the Turkmen have a day of destruction. Dear lawmakers, these are our kin, and believe me, they're paying our bills. Our people who've been running this place for a thousand years, after our ancestors left, they're paying our bills. Today, Turkishmen who were expelled from Telafer, because they were Shiites, are unfortunately not accepted by Erbil, nor are they accepted by Kerkok. On the roads of Najaf, on the roads of Kerbala, and on the roads of ISIS, they depart from the deserts in fear that they will not be caught, and with the heat of the heat, and with the threat of ISIS, there is violence before our eyes. Dear lawmakers, the problems of the Silver House may have been solved, but it is not even in the sight of God that we are insensitive to the atrocities of Iraq Turkmeneli, in the responsibility of being human, in the responsibility of sharing the same history. That's why I'm trying to warn you about two things. Such a secure area should be brought to the agenda of the United Nations, as did the United Nations, after the persecution of Saddam in 1991, to the Shiite Turkmen and Sunni Turkmen in Telafer. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey must adopt it, and the government must suggest it. Second: camps must be set up. Turkmen seek refuge, they disappear in the desert. Why don't we set up camp for these Turkmen in and out of our borders? It is also our responsibility to show the Syrian Turkmen that we have shown this Alice to the Syrian refugees to the Iraqi Turkmen. I wanted to present this to your appreciation and knowledge. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0005par0039	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. The third non-responsored statement belongs to the Syrian MP Hursit Günşit Günşit, who wants to talk about the Syrian mass refugee movement. Here you go, Mr. Sun.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0006par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the High Council. Dear friends, as we begin to speak, I bless the 583 people who have died in Gaza as of now, 154 of them are children, and I remember them with mercy, God willing, in their light. 3.554 people were injured, and they were 1,125. It's a violent act. We watched the Prime Minister today, and he complained, "Why is there no help available to Gaza?" Of course, you know the situation of the Middle East. The important thing is to eliminate the threat elements of Israel in the Middle East. Especially in recent years, the Syrian government, which Israel has feared, feared, disliked, and opposed, is now helpless. 160,000 people died in the Middle East and Syria, while Muslims were engaged in religious warfare. Qatar and Saudi Arabia are one of the most active countries in this regard, but neither of the countries, notice, did not extend their hand to Gaza. Now, I'm thinking about the blue marmara thing. You know, the Blue Marmara is extremely important, another human savagery. Our countrymen were slain, and they brought help to Gaza. The government objected and moved the issue to the United Nations, and the United Nations set up a commission to investigate this issue, the Palmer Commission. The report of this commission is to remember its 2011 report. A commission established by the government's initiative was set up by the United Nations, but the commission's report noted that the blockade to Gaza was justified and justified, legal and justified. Of course, the Republic of Turkey and the representative sent by this government have put up the opposition threat, but, unfortunately, until that date, until 2011, when there was no legal guarantee, the blockade of Gaza had no legal basis, so the Gaza blockade had legal security. Sadly, the situation of our Muslim brothers and sisters in Gaza has worsened. Dear friends, various figures are being told about the migration from Syria. Some say 1,200,000, the Deputy Prime Minister says it's around there, says it's about 1,200,000, and the United Nations is saying numbers in that area again. Turkey will now be the 2nd since Lebanon, but very soon, at the end of this year, it will be the 1st because 1.5 million Syrian Turkeys will live there. Now, the number of this is unclear, but the problem is extremely serious. There are Syrians on the streets, like our workers in Soma, who are walking in poverty, and it will be even worse when the number is over 1.5 million and eventually they don't return to their own country. Now, Mr. Shandir just mentioned the Turkmen in Iraq. I wish they could come, and if we could open them up, they're stuck. And Turkey has to organize its economy and social life under this enormous wave of migration. Dear lawmakers, only 200,000 of these Syrian citizens have shelters, others are in the middle of nowhere. Now, I saw it in the press today, there's some preparation, but I don't know how much of that preparation would be the answer. However, there must be a change in foreign policy preparation, they need to build a public shelter, education opportunities need to be developed, health opportunities need to be developed. That's why, today, I've made a motion to set up a research commission. How many Syrian people live in 81 provinces, so let's take it out of humility and record it, it has no record. How many Syrians, what about their future, what about their children, what about their education, what about their health, what about the health of 75 million? We need to identify them. This is an extremely important matter. We'll be facing 1.5 million immigrants at the end of the year, which will probably increase in 2015. Hopefully, the Turkmen will come, and we're not worried about the increase, Turkey opens its arms to compassion, but it's important, and if we don't investigate, we might face bigger problems. I'd like to present to you the attention of the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0007par0056	Thank you, Mr. Sun. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to enter the system and give our lawmakers the rights to a short word. Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0008par0061	Mr. President, today we strongly condemn the killing of Israel in Gaza, which has lasted for days. Sultan the great Abdulhamid Khan, who came to buy the Palestinian land with his money at the time, rejected him, saying, "You will never get this land while I am alive." At that time there was peace, peace, brotherhood, but then there was blood and tears in the Middle East land with a ruler. We remember the peace and brotherhood of that time and Sultan Abdulhamid Khan with mercy and gratitude, and we strongly condemn Israel's army and parliamentarians who carried out the massacre, those who slaughtered people without saying children, without saying mother, without saying old...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0007par0063	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0009par0065	Mr. President, thank you. Wait a minute? We had an exception, so I'll adjust myself.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0007par0067	Come in, sir, two minutes to the group vice presidents.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0009par0069	Mr. President, thank you. First, I ask God to bless our two soldiers, who were declared martyrs, who died last night in the battle at Ceylanpınar. I wish everyone would avoid the attitudes and attitudes that would lead to this conflict. I'd like to say that we expect the government to do its part to ensure peace and quiet in that region, and I'll tell you that first. Mr. President, during our group meeting today, during our president-in-chief's speech, there was sabotage at the power source of the Turkish Grand National Assembly providing power to live broadcast vehicles, to prevent our conversation from being broadcast live. Power to all live broadcasters has been minimised and all live broadcasters have been cut off. It's a thought -- it's a thought -- it's as ugly and as exemplary as it sounds. If Mr. Speaker of Parliament is watching the General Assembly, I demand that he brief our group on the matter and initiate a procedure on those responsible, and I call on the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to remind him of his responsibility. On the other hand, Mr. President, I'd like it to be known that Turkey is facing a very strange and exemplary view of the operation launched against some members of our police force within the Police Headquarters this morning. Those who can't operate on ISIS can arrest officers in their own police force in the hours of the morning, harassing them with operations such as terrorist hunts, detaining them... for whatever reason, these are the cases in Turkey where citizens are greeted with doubt and anxiety in the conscience of the public. I demand that the government inform the General Assembly of these operations immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0010par0074	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0011par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask God's mercy for our soldiers who were killed yesterday in Ceylanpınar, who were shot by Syria, and I ask for patience for their relatives, and I pray for immediate healing for the wounded. I also wish for immediate healing for those injured in the LPG-loaded tanker that exploded on the way to lice. On the other hand, unfortunately, I also condemn the arrest of the people who are in charge of the government's own duties and duties in the operations that are being carried out in a number of cases that have occurred in Turkey and that law will be needed for everyone tomorrow. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0012par0082	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0013par0085	Mr. President, thank you. Electricity is privatized across the country, but we get complaints from our citizens every day. The lights are out over the weekend or a couple of days late. A grandmother is crying out for a sacrifice in my fridge. A diabetic shouts, "My insulin's gone bad in the closet." I didn't run the milk machine, my cows' breasts got sick. I want the government to be sensitive to these cries. In addition, energy payments used in agricultural irrigation suffer from droughts or overheating or hails, and payments are expected to be structured. I'm warning the government about this, I'm inviting sensitivity. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0014par0088	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0015par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. In Ceylanpınar district, two of our soldiers were killed by the militants of the traitorous terrorist organization, and six of our soldiers were injured. I wish our martyrs mercy and immediate healing for the wounded. Furthermore, the lack of production in farmers is extreme in the province of Tokat, as a result of the drought of weather and various meteorological events. In some places production is almost at a standstill. In the province of Tokat, the farmers of Kazova, Zile, Kelkit, Artova are about to fall into executions because they cannot pay their debts; urgent measures are expected from the government to delay debts, to allow farmers to breathe. I'd like to thank your government for making decisions on farmers without delay.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0016par0095	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0017par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, residents of medical schools and educational hospitals have arrived at the point of extinction and are screaming from all sides of Turkey. For a long time, we have been working under conditions that would ruin our spiritual and physical health, let alone provide good health. Their demands are very simple: the removal of the extracurricular extracurricular shifts, the payment of unpaid shifts, and the over-extended workload to make more money will be taken to a human level. Young doctors employed for 32 hours every 48 hours can only apologize. This inhumane practice must be immediately waived and the rights of residents must be immediately restored to them. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0018par0101	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0019par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, through you, after the implementation of the Metropolitan Law, the institution for water work in the village of Demirdere is BUSKI. However, while billing, it has been noted that the BUSKI made wastewater costs and related VAT rates. In our talks with BUSKI, they expressed that the cost of waste water was related to sewage. However, there are no sewers in the village of Demirdere. It's our citizen's question that the price for a place that's not a sewer is unfair, and we're asking for information on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0020par0107	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0021par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. According to the report of Doğan News Agency in Ceylanpınar district of Şanlıurfa province today, PYD militants, the Syrian arm of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and another claim that while trying to infiltrate Turkey's traffickers, a group of soldiers in the watchhouse who were the target of bullets in the first fire were killed by fire while Adem and Berat Gırıkkaya were killed. I wish God's mercy to our martyr soldiers, my condolences to their families. I condemn the AKP government, which has turned our Southeast border into a crossing inn and supported terrorist elements in Syria. I say it is imperative that these terrorist groups, including the immediate control of our southeast border and the PKK militants, have infiltrated Turkey and threatened Turkey's security, preventing these infiltration movements. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0022par0114	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0023par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. After the Soma mining accident, two more of our citizens were killed in Balıkesir Ivrindi, Gözlüçeyer village, Antimuan mine, while waiting for measures to be taken on business and labour health. When we looked there, along with our Free Regent, we saw that no measures were taken on business and labour health, that mining was being produced in African conditions, unfortunately. Again, Balıkesir is reported in the battlefield, because of smallpox in the animals - in the slaughterers and in the sheep - in the region. In this regard, the government must immediately quarantine and intervene in the prevention of this disease, which is likely to pass on to humans. I'd like to rephrase that to the government authorities from here. It is also likely to pass on to humans if the disease that caused the deaths of animals during the war is not prevented immediately. These complaints are being delivered to us from the area. I call upon government officials to intervene in the area and sensitivity.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0024par0120	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Ulema...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0025par0123	Mr. President, from the first day of the Soma mining accident, Mr. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we've seen once again in Mr. Kılıçdaroğlu's visit to our Kınik district, where he considered the relatives of the CHP, miners and martyr families, who started a lynch campaign against our ministers and MPs. The CHP mentality, which has used even its help to provoke miners and relatives to the streets at every turn, has become a victim of its own interests when it comes to sharing suffering. CHP President has not visited a single family in Kınik district, which had claimed 51 victims in a mining accident he came to ask for a vote on the roof candidates the other day.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0024par0125	Thank you, Mr. Ulema. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0026par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we are very pleased that you have the right to say a minute, which is a very valuable, democratic attitude, which is not implemented by the AKP MPs, but is applied by you, so that lawmakers can express themselves and say something about the agenda. It is a blessing to us that AKP MPs are also using the freedom created by CHP's Deputy Speaker. What Mr. Izmir MP just stated is that the information given about our president is intended to be completely distorted. Mr. President has visited several mining families shortly after the mining accident. The other way around would be to use the mining accident as a political tool. The AKP MPs are the best to do that, too.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0027par0131	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Özdağ...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0028par0134	Mr. President, the Republican People's Party's Manisa MP Mr. Free Special, who spoke out of context here a few days ago, has brought up two issues in Soma. One was Gurmin Metal. There, the state pays their wages in three mines -- and about two mines -- for three months and six months -- but to those who worked in Gurmin Metal, their wages would not be paid because they were a separate company. I've made calls on this. They'll be paid by Monday. So I thank Mr. Free Special for bringing it up. The second issue is that there is a company in Eli, called Aka Metal, where 120 people work, a subcontractor. Because the subcontractor and the main firm couldn't get along, 120 people are out of work. It is not true that they have been laid off because of the petition, but it is true that our friends have not been paid much overtime. If the Ministry of Labor brings this matter up, we will follow it, and if the new firm is agreed on, we will also work at the point where the victims are first employed. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0029par0137	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0030par0140	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but my request was deleted while I was there.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0029par0141	I'm following you, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0030par0143	It is known that there have been major thefts and corruptions detected in the proceedings dating back to Erdogan. For the past seven months, corruption and thefts in these proceedings have been ordered by Recep Tayyip Erdogan to hide from the public, as ordered by Cemil Ciçe and the Chief of Investigation Commission, and these two people, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, have kidnapped these proceedings from members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly: corruption and thefts are intended to be kept from the public before the President's election. Now, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, if his forehead is open, he must announce these proceedings before the President's election, inform the public, and answer for the enormous fortunes he and his family have. He won't get anywhere by hiding the truth from people.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0029par0145	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0031par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. A discovery was made Monday (July 21st) by the Rize Administration Court concerning the mine that was intended to be mined in Artvin Cerattepe yesterday (July 21st). As it is known -- I've expressed many times here -- that the site of the mines in Artvin Cerattepe is one of the closest places to the Caucasor Tourism Center, the Atabarı Ski Center, the Hatila Valley National Park. During yesterday's discovery, the court committee saw the destruction of the mining activity that was intended to be carried out here, the extent and size of the tree massacre that was going to take place there, how it would destroy a city together. I, from the great Parliament, congratulate all Artvins who attended yesterday's expedition, the friends of Artvin, the honor of being Artvin, the pride of being an Artvinian, and I thank you from this place, to all the Artvinians who once again express with determination that they will not allow this environmental disaster to happen by joining this discovery yesterday. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0032par0152	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Akova...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0033par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Healthy information has not yet been given to satisfy public opinion about trucks being stopped in Adana, and security forces who have done their duty have been tried to become criminals. However, the known facts have shown that the testimony of witnesses has been held that a large shipment of ammunition to Syria illegally is being carried out under the supervision and protection of the government itself. What was the outcome of the missile, rocket, cannon shell, various diameters and quantities of ammunition detected in the trucks? Why are security guards charged with searching trucks as part of their mission? The judges and prosecutors were replaced and pressured on the trucks stopped in Adana. What is planned to prevent a fair and impartial trial from destroying the sense of justice? Is it a crime to condone illegal shipments of ammunition, or to allow our country's borders to be riddled with illegal operations? If this shipment of ammunition had been blocked in advance, couldn't the Turks now, held in the hands of terrorists as living shields, continue to live in freedom and security? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0034par0158	Thank you, Mr. Akova. Mr. Günay...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0035par0161	Mr. President, our country is facing serious national and international problems. I tried to present it yesterday, and since 45 days ago, we have diplomats in the hands of a gang who have been using the name of Islam unfairly, and Gaza has given more than 500 dead and thousands wounded in the land operation for a week. Under these conditions, it is imperative that the State Department, the State Department, the government inform the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In a sense, the House is being ignored by this ignorance. On the contrary, the government launched a ground operation today at the time of sahur, on police officers who participated in the 17th and 25 December operations according to the court's instructions. I offer it to our nation's discretion, and, truly, as a lawyer, I condemn it with all my heart. My respects.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0034par0163	Thank you, Mr. Günay. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0036par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. The opening of olive groves under 25 acres would be a law of plunder and plunder. The Antalya Trade Stock Exchange was founded in 1920, which produced a 22-acre foundation olive grove, which I'm honored to bring to Parliament. It says, "Olives" as in... So you will take life so seriously that even in your 70s, you will plant olives, for example. The Keeper of Heaven gives three seeds to the son of Adam. When Adam dies, Adam will be put in his mouth and buried like that. Behold, the three sacred trees, the symbol of the Mediterranean, come forth from the land of the prophet. One is a cypress, one is a cedar, and one is an olive. After the Flood, Noah, who searched for land, provided a white dove to find the land, and returned with a newly torn olive branch in the pigeon's mouth. What the goddess Athena gives to humans is not just olives, but established civilization and peace. Being a symbol of the wise Athena, the goddess of reason, is also an olive branch. , says Egyli Homer, to the olive. The physician's ancestor, Hippocrates, suggests the best medicine is olive oil. It is honored by olive oil and is an olive oil civilization in Anatolia. Take your hands off the olive groves and you'll burn.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0034par0168	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Dear Honey...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0037par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. There are dark clouds surrounding our country. On the one hand, the PKK, ISIS, bonzai, traffickers, economic problems have been under way, and there has also been a serious injustice to police officers who have been investigating and investigating corruption that occurred on December 17, 25th, as well as finding evidence related to them. Of course, it's a job that shouldn't be in countries that embrace democratic values. In order to cover the corruption that was involved in the AKP, within the government and within the Prime Minister's office, the State Department first changed its Law on the Judiciary, the Supreme Court, the Court of Justice, the Law on the creation of judicial justice judges, the Law on Criminal Law and the Criminal Law on all of our laws, in order to close these investigations.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0034par0174	Thank you, Mr. Honey. Finally, Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0038par0177	Mr. President, İşitan Önder, who graduated Izmit Anadolu High School at the end of the year in the district of Izmit, has been stripped of his school title because Ali İsmail Korkmaz, who has been a student and has been stripped of his right to education and life. I told and played the situation to the Minister of National Education himself in the ranks of the government. Although the Minister of National Education said there was nothing in the context of this conversation, our child's valedictorian was not extradited by the Ministry of National Education, but the child's school title was extradited by a court order. It was the last day, and on the last day, the court's decision had to be brought to the YOK; it needed to go to school first, and it needed to be notified later. The Governor of Marseilles, the National Education Director and Izmit Governor did everything in their power to prevent this decision from reaching the school and the NGO. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Nevertheless, in the presence of the postal workers, the teachers, along with the postal workers, made sure that the letter or the decision was fulfilled. And for that, I condemn all public officials who have prevented it.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0034par0180	Thank you, Mr. Akar. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The pepper gas used recklessly in social events and democratic demonstrations by law enforcement forces has caused many of our citizens to lose their lives. In response to the health impact of pepper gas, the Interior Minister has made public information about natural products, while the relevant occupational institutions have explained that pepper gas has serious health effects with scientific research. In order to identify the health damage of the use of pepper gas, to examine the legal and administrative stages of events caused by the use of pepper gas and resulting in death, I move that Parliament be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105 of TBMI Institution. The reckless use of pepper gas by law enforcement has caused many of our citizens, Metin Lokumcu, Teaan Birben, Hajji Rich, to die. In response to the current impact of pepper gas, the statement made by the Interior Minister and the Turkish Toraks Association was reflected in the press with the following phrases: "There is a report issued by İstanbul University Medical School Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacology Master Science Branch that says tear gas has no permanent impact on human health as a completely natural plant. The CS gas is used by the manufacturer with a quality security certificate that shows that it is not harmful to human health when it is used by properly trained personnel. In this framework, according to our records, there has been no death in our country due to gas ammunition used by the police." Turkey's Toraks Association: "Turkish Toraks Association has conducted a research team that is a member of a project called "Respire Health Problems Seed to Tearing Gas" in 2012 to study the issue as a result of a frequent public meeting of health problems stemming from the use of pepper gas. According to the preliminary results of the study, pepper gas has been seen to cause harmful effects similar to smoking from the upper airways to the lower airways. It has been discovered that the use of pepper gas disrupts the respiratory functions and that the current speed in small airways decreases as the amount of pepper gas increases. This suggests that blocker airway diseases have increased in this group. Since the work of the Turkish Toraks Association was carried out on lucky individuals who had encountered pepper spray and did not die, the results only showed dangerous effects on the respiratory system. The description of OC pepper gas as a natural plant directly contradicts the fact that pepper gas manufacturers in OC products are used as additives, such as alcohol, organic solvents, hydrocarbons, other than pepper extracts. Even breathing these substances outside of the pepper extract causes sudden heart, respiratory, nervous system influences, rhythm disorders, and deaths (Smith G, Health Hazards of Pepper Spray, NCMJ, 1999). Investigating the pepper spray; It could lead to some kind of subgroup of asthma (reactive Airways Disfunction Syndrome), That it can cause death in patients with previous asthma diagnosis. It can be even more deadly when it's used indoors. It shows that pepper spray can also be lethal in the open with intense use." We demand from all these statements and information that a TBMM study be opened in order to control administrative and judicial processes related to the use of pepper spray, health damage, and the deaths of previous processes and to take necessary measures. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey is required to establish and determine the economic, social, cultural dimensions of the elderly, the legal and operational regulations needed to be made to ensure the universal rights of the elderly, and talks to address the problems of elderly citizens who are victims due to their current social security policies, and, in particular, research to determine the shortcomings of local governments, the 98th of the Constitution shall be opened under the purview of Articles 104 and 105th Articles of the Interior Charter. [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Mwah.]] [[Pain]] [[Şırnak]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Mardin]] [[Bingöl]] [[Adana]] 12) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] 16) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Van]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] Instead of ignoring the phenomenon of aging as the world population rapidly grows older, the problem is that to create a society of equality instead of discrimination, older rights must be developed, older services are diversified for the elderly. There are ten million elderly pensioners in Turkey. 7 million,500,000 pensioners live on a monthly basis below the age of starvation. The quality of life is reduced because the lives of the elderly, whose happiness has waned and growing desperate, are limited, because they can't use the social, political, cultural and economic opportunities that exist, because they can't have direct solidarity with the community. Old age is a concept of retirement. The state of seniors, pensioners in society shows the culture level of society, the level of development. In our country, there are 5,500,000 people over the age of 65, 7,500,000 people over the age of 60. The inequality of pensions has deepened since 1999, as well as a change in the calculation of pensions from the SEC and the BUG-KUR. In 2007, pensions were cut out of the budget by the government's draft bill for the removal of the country's growth rate. All pensioners are expected to decrease by one-third in 2013 and by 50 per cent in the next five years. The failure of social security policies and the release of private pensions to market conditions have affected all workers, as well as pensioners. The elderly have universal rights to live in a secure environment, such as any human being needs, to receive professional care, to receive professional care services, to improve their personal dignity, to have medicine, nutrition, health care, social services, adequate income opportunities, to access appropriate education and education programmes, to actively participate in educational and cultural activities, to actively participate in family, close environment, inter-generational assistance, to receive professional care, and to benefit from new technical and technology. The principles under the principle of old age, adopted by the United Nations in 1982, contain universal rights. In addition to all the contracts signed by Turkey, the Constitution, social security, social welfare, social services, and other relevant regulations have been legally recognised by "The Status of the Older and Age National Action Plan (2008) in Turkey, but in practice, problems continue in many areas, such as access to activities such as education, culture, social security rights, pension rights, elderly care, violence against the elderly. We propose that a research commission be set up to investigate and identify the economic, social, cultural dimensions of the elderly, to determine the legal and operational regulations necessary to ensure the universal rights of the elderly, and to address the problems of elderly citizens, who are victims of current social security policies, and especially to identify the shortcomings of local governments. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly By revealing the causes of traffic accidents that have killed thousands of our citizens each year, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution, under Articles 104, 105, should be opened and determined in order to prevent further casualties. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Mwah.]] [[Pain]] [[Şırnak]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Bingöl]] [[Adana]] 13) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] 17) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Van]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] In Turkey, the number of people who lost their lives due to traffic accidents has reached significant numbers that would require immediate attention. Every day, dozens of people die in accidents. According to official statements from the Ministry of Transport, between 2002 and 2009, a total of 35,244 people throughout Turkey were killed in traffic accidents. Thousands of people died the same way this year. Between July 21st and July 22nd, 43 of our citizens were killed in traffic accidents in just two days. Again, on August 2nd in Boyabat district of Sinop, two of the ladle fell on a moving car and killed seven people. Looking at the number of accidents and the way accidents occurred, we can see that accidents were caused not only by driving error, but by dozens of factors that could be eliminated by serious control and measures. The number of deaths caused by traffic accidents will rise above the figures, given that the victims were not taken into hospital hospitals and were not included in the death statistics in traffic or hospital. The World Health Organization (WHO) statistics show that more than 10,000 people die every year in traffic accidents, while hundreds of thousands are crippled in Turkey. In this case, Turkey is among the top 10 countries in which fatal traffic accidents occurred. According to the Security Directorate's data, one third of the vehicles are subjected to criminal sanctions each year, according to traffic practices. In the first nine months of 2011 alone, 6 million 343,181 traffic tickets were carried out. These figures show that control activities are done enough, but most of the audits are done within the city. However, traffic accidents that have caused the most casualties are happening out of town. And the controls around here are pretty low. Accidents aren't just caused by driving defects. Roads, traffic warning signs, speed limit control, whether the vehicle is on track or not. The factors cause accidents. Unfortunately, traffic outside the city is getting out of hand. Interstate buses, private and commercial vehicles are not systematically controlled. Car tires are worn out or not in seasonal conditions, the brake system is problematic, whether they're in all the parts of the vehicle that fit traffic or not. Causes cost us dozens of lives. Studies have found that drivers interpret plates that are vital to traffic safety in opposite terms. The driver's health problems or driving capacity and information are not available because the driver's driver's licenses are not granted a valid renovation period. Traffic accidents stem from driving mistakes, as well as lack of infrastructure on the roads. The Traffic Safety Foundation has suggested that about 40 per cent of the road to land about 65km in Turkey is not safe. Divided roads are made up of old ways, without being re-projected. Most roads don't have enough markings. Snuggled roads pose a danger to drivers. The General Directorate of Highways must maintain constant control of all roads under its responsibility to ensure traffic safety on the roads. Not only are there areas with the potential for accidents, but there are also risks to be detected and measures to ensure traffic safety on the roads that have the slightest risk. In view of all these issues, we offer the General Assembly's appreciation for the establishment of a research commission to prevent the loss of lives in traffic, under the scope of roads, negligence, recklessness and driving mistakes that have cost tens of thousands of people their lives in the wake of traffic accidents. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Equality of Women and Men Opportunities, the Office of Public Economics and non-political party members of the European Union's Compliance Commissions also fall into 1 membership. Lawmakers who are not members of the political party group who want to run for these commissions are scheduled for Friday (July 25, 2014) at 18 p.m. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. Now, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday 22/07/2014 (now), since there is no unanimous vote among political parties, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. [[Bingöl]] On 14 April 2014, Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan gave 5234 rows no. The parliamentary research proposal, which has been submitted to the Turkish Parliament to investigate the activities of ISIS and Al Nusra organisations known for their atrocities against the people of Rojava in Syria, was proposed to be read in the same history of Tuesday's unifications of talks, which are held before other proposals to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. On the other hand, Mardin MP Erol Dora. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0039par0323	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party following our motion. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers have witnessed and witnessed many human tragedies and social traumas because of the wars, crimes, genocide and massacres that have occurred throughout history and throughout history and throughout history, the cradle of civilization. In the Middle East, which boasts that Israel is the cradle of three heavenly religions, as in every war today, in the war in Iraq, in the Syrian war, and in the attacks on Gaza people, the vulnerable people and especially small children can be killed because of their religion or sects. In 2003, hundreds of thousands of people were slaughtered and millions of people lost their homeland after America invaded Iraq. The peoples of Assyria, Suryani, Keldani, Kurd, Armenian, Turkmen, Arab, Ezidi, who lived in Iraq during this period suffered a great deal. In particular, three quarters of the Assyrian-Suryani-Keldani, who have now been a minority and vulnerable in their land for thousands of years, were forced to leave the country because of oppression and massacres. In other words, their population, nearly 1.5 million, has dropped to about 400,000. The war, which has been going on for over three years in Syria, which has been the last of the new war waves in Middle Eastern geography for the past five years, has led to 170,000 people to die, millions to leave their countries, and over a million Syrians to take refuge in our country. After the war in Iraq in 2003, the country became the home of terrorist organizations. Terrorist organizations such as Al Qaeda, who have been powered by this chaotic environment, have emerged in Iraq, Syria, and other Middle East countries, including El Nusra and ISIS. ISIS terrorist organisation's non-violent practices and crimes of humanity continue in Syria and Iraq. Dear lawmakers, the ISIS terrorist group has continued its occupation and attacks in the region after the invasion of Mosul (Musul) and have led to further deepening the chaos that Iraq had not been able to survive for years. In the days when ISIS launched its attacks in Iraq, nearly 500,000 people were forced to leave their homes only within a week, according to the International Migration Organization's findings. Kurds, Arabs, Asuri-Süryani-Keldanis, Armenians, Turkmen, Shabaks and Ezidis, who live in the region, seek shelter in relatively safer areas. News continues that the ISIS terrorist organization has brutally massacred thousands of people in the region. We still don't have healthy information about the fate of the people who were taken hostage at the Turkish consulate. Dear lawmakers, after the invasion of Mosul and surrounding cities by ISIS about two months ago, it is clear that all different ethnic groups living in the region have suffered the greatest damage, as in the civil war in Syria that has been going on for three years. The situation in Syria is no different. In particular, vulnerable Christian communities are the target of terrorist organizations. More than half of the population today is estimated to have left Syria before the civil war. The fates of two high-ranking Christian religious leaders, the Suryanian Orthodox Metropolitan John Ibrahim and the Greek Orthodox Metropolitan Paul - who have been kidnapped in Syria for 15 months - remain uncertain. The area of Mosul and Ninova, controlled by ISIS terrorists, are densely inhabited by Assyrian-Süryani-Keldanis. Unfortunately, however, the oldest people in that region are no longer granted the right to live and forced to emigrate. Once again Ninova prays. The despot practices imposed in areas controlled by the ISIS organisation do not give people who have faith beyond their own understanding the right to live. In particular, during the past week, ISIS has made it necessary for Christians living in the city to become Muslims or pay the rent so that they can survive. Otherwise, he would have given them respite until the last Saturday to leave the city and leave its property. He also announced that those who did not comply would be sentenced to death. Thus, while the city's Assyrian-Suryani-Keldanis, Shiites, Turkmen, Ezidians, Christians had to migrate in a manner that was confiscated from their checkpoints, leaving their homes, businesses, and places of worship. Because of the ongoing conflicts in other areas outside Musul, the esteemed MPs have left the area in the last two months to take refuge in tens of thousands of Assyrians, Suryani, Keldani, heavily in the Kurdistan area or in churches and monasteries in other secure areas. Some of the historical churches and monasteries left behind are being bombed or burned to death. Just a few days ago, the Suryani Catholic Metropolitan Church in Mosul was set on fire. Dear MPs, in the context of the democratic nation paradigm, the massive attacks of ISIS terrorists against Kobani, a canton of democratic autonomous governance, which all the peoples and all the different beliefs have built by developing a common will. The ISIS terrorist organisation, especially from its chaotic environment in Iraq, continues its attacks on Alevi, Nusayri, Muslims, Christians, and other peoples, including Kurds, Suryani, Assyria, Keldani, Turkmen, Armenian, Arab, Ezidi, Alevi, Nusairi, Muslims, Christians and others, with support from countries such as the Saudi Arabia and Qatar. In addition, Turkey has laid the groundwork for strengthening the 911-square-square-mile Syrian borders of these radical, illegal organizations, which can carry out unrestricted massacres. With the support provided by the ISIS terrorist organisation, it has become increasingly a danger to the entire Middle East. It is no secret that this monster, who was created, has given his support and will soon pose great dangers to the governments who are giving it. Dear lawmakers, as a result, despite the ongoing massacres and murders in Iraq, Syria, and the persecution of the Palestinian people in Gaza, the United Nations, the United Nations, and the European Union have been initially followed by an exemplary and double standard attitude towards all these crimes against humanity. The purpose of the United Nations Convention is, however, to establish the following statements: ▪ We have decided to protect the generations from the disaster of war, to unite our forces to protect basic human rights, the dignity and value of the human personality, our faith in the equality of men and women and the rights of small nations, to establish conditions for the protection of justice and the respect of obligations born from the treaty, and to provide better living conditions for greater freedom, to protect international peace and security. But we all clearly see that the United Nations is in a position to disregard its own contract. In addition, the Security Council has been entrusted with decision-making authority on almost all matters, the ability to veto any subject you can think of for 5 permanent members, and the commitment of all member states to comply with the Security Council decisions of the 25th article has been made. The five permanent members of the Security Council are China, France, the Russian Federation, Britain, the United States, which means there is no decision from the United Nations on anything they don't want. So we think it's time for the United Nations to be questioned. Kurds living in Iraq and Syria, Turks, Arabs, Asuri-Soryani-Keldanis and Ezidis are also indigenous peoples of Asia Minor and Mesopotamia, and relatives of the peoples of Turkey. In both domestic and foreign policy and rhetoric, all political parties, especially in power, need to be more sensitive and equal at the point where they can develop an approach and attitude that emphasizes the brotherhood and peace between cultures, beliefs and peoples and does not alter any ethnic culture and belief. Dear lawmakers, as a result of developments, we now see that the rich cultural structure in Middle Eastern geography, where different ethnic and religious communities are united, is the solution to the democratic nation and the common nation's mentality, where differences can live together and respect each other's rights. The hierarchy, judgmental and exploitive policies developed between the peoples and the faiths will not only harm the concerned people, but in the political history of mankind... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in the history of politics, in the history of decency, it will take place in memory with great pain. I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0040par0341	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Against you, Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0041par0345	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been massacred over massacres in the Middle East area for days, mourning over mourning, and, of course, as a result of that, it's being declared in Turkey, and we're all in it. Of course, mourning should be declared, but it is important to emphasize that mourning is declared by natural disasters, and beyond that, other things can be done. Every day in Gaza, our people are slaughtered, our people are killed every day in Telafer. Turkishmen children are slaughtered in the heat of 50 degrees without food and water, but I want to say that one day a friend of ours would come here and not wear a turkmenian scarf. Dear friends, organisations such as ISIS and El Nusra have started a Muslim massacre in the region. There is not much difference between the killing of Muslims and the persecution of Israel, and there is no doubt about it. For some reason, Muslims are always dying in the region, Muslims are always being killed in the region, but Turkey is discriminated against even among the Muslims who died there. Maybe it's not right to say "Turkey," it's better to say "AKP's power." It's our people who died in Gaza, but it's our people who died in Turkmeneli, and it's our people who died in Rojava. If we can't hear the screams of the dying, if we can't hear the children being raped on one side, if we can't hear the voices of the Turkishmen women being kidnapped and crucified every day, and we can't even say it here, it's not easy because it's not right to compare between the dead, it's not right to do a competition between the pain and the pain, but it's also hard to understand that you can't just look one side and keep quiet on the other side, and we have to say it. Dear friends, I would like to ask a question from here, from the High Assembly, where I have not been able to find the answer, while our soldiers are being martyred at Ceylanpınar, in our Southeast Anatolian region, while 1.5 million Syrian people on the other hand are coming to Turkey. Turkey is a big country. Of course, we must welcome those who are suffering within our neighbors, as we have opened up, 1.5 million people have come to Turkey. Earlier, the Kurdish brothers in Iraq, who fled the persecution of Saddam, came to Turkey, and Turkey welcomed them and did something right. Today, Turkey welcomed those who fled Syria, and did the right thing. Although we know that they are under difficult circumstances in Turkey, at least they are not under ISIS persecution, at least there is no problem at the point of their safety. So, I'm asking you, is Turkey incapable of taking 5,000, 10,000 Turkmen from there? Is your power unable to take 5,000 Turks and 5,000 Turkmen children to Turkey? If 5,000 Turkmen came, would Turkey be a burden? Why can't we accept a million and a half million over 5,000 Turkmen? Why don't we ask the Syrian for a visa, why don't we ask the Syrian for a passport and go get a passport? Who's he gonna get it from, Turkmen? He's going to get a passport out of ISIS? They're already 50 degrees in the camp. The AKP's power must answer that question. Why can't we accept Turkmen to Turkey? Why are we not concerned about the Turkmen massacre there? We're angry, what does our AFAD have to do with it? If we can't bring water to Turkmen today, if we can't bring medicine to the Turkmen children there today, shame on us, shame on all of us! The Turkmen are crying blood over there, but your hair isn't moving. There, the Turkmen are starving, their women are being raped. I address the AKP's women MPs: Why don't you do one action for this, and one action for Turkishmen women while they're being raped, and why don't you do it for Turkishmen women? Why is it that when it comes to them, you don't speak up, but when it comes to other places, you sound right? It should be, we have our support for you, but when you're Turkmen, why are you blind and deaf and deaf, and why are you so insensitive to Turkmen?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0042par0350	Did you do it?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0041par0351	We're doing it. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] The National Movement Party has gathered the help of its own means and, God bless, Mr. Olcay, our January President, has delivered it with his own hands.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0042par0354	No, no, did your women do an act?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0041par0355	But you guys have a government opportunity. It's in your hands...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0042par0356	Yeah, well, let them do it, so...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0041par0357	You're a scarecrow! You're in power, you're in power.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0042par0358	Don't shout!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0041par0359	You're squandering this country's taxes, why isn't the state's resources wasted when it's Turkmen? Why does this state not open its border to Turkmen? Are you so uncomfortable with Turkish people, are you so uncomfortable with Turkmen? Friends, you're responsible for the children who died there, and you're responsible for the children who died there. Women get raped there, and you don't even get out of here and condemn them. Your authority has turned into a reproach, but you are guilty. You condemn the massacre in Gaza, but you continue to trade. The Deputy Prime Minister says we have to go out and make a trade, or he won't go to Palestine. There's no such thing, friends, don't fool anyone. You can't tell this growing trade of yours, not Gaza, but your growing trade with Israel, by deceiving people -- you can't fool anyone. Our Turkmen people are dying out there, my friends. We have to get them here as Turkey. If we accept 1.5 million Syrian citizens who have come here, Muslims -- which we should -- we should also accept the Turkmen. Why double standard? Why is your power so hostile to the Turk? Why do you deny the Turk so much? Why are you guys so quiet when you're Turkish?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0043par0363	Brother, come on! What distinction?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0041par0364	How many Turkishmen have come to Turkey? I'm asking you, how many Turks have been accepted to Turkey?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0043par0365	What do you mean, how many Turks are here? Am I keeping track of you? You're asking me if I'm keeping a record? Jesus Christ! How many did you get?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0041par0367	If you have a government, I'm asking you to come out here and say, "We've brought 1.5 million Arab Syrians here, and we've brought 5,000 Turks. You can't say, because you want a passport from Turkmen, because you don't let Turkmen in here. The ISIS terror organization you fed and raised in the massacre of the Turkmen, and therefore your contribution, your hand.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0043par0368	What's the distinction? Is there any way to discriminate?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0041par0369	Dear friends, tell me the right information here.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0043par0370	That's not politics!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0041par0371	Come here and say that the AKP's women's deputies, come here and say that the Turkish women were raped there, so we did this.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0043par0372	We don't discriminate from Kurd, Turkmen, Arab.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0041par0373	While our Turkmen brothers were being slaughtered, we declared a day of mourning here.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0044par0374	Ask Mehmet Shandır. He'll know our support for the Turkmen!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0041par0375	While our Turkmen brothers were starving there, we took 5,000 of them to Turkey. Say, "I'll go out and apologize to you." Come and say it, but you can't say it.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0044par0376	Ask Mehmet Shandır.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0041par0377	You closed the door to Turkey. These people will ask you to pay for this. He will question in this world and in the Hereafter. Of course, God will have to ask you to keep Turkmen there without food or water, for you to be so insensitive, so indifferent. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0045par0380	Thank you, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0046par0381	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0045par0382	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0046par0383	In his speech, he described the power of the EC PARTY, the AK PARTY MPs, and his government as the Turkish enemy.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0045par0384	I can't hear you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0046par0385	He described the Turk as his enemy.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0047par0386	He's right.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0048par0387	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0046par0388	A man who lost his manners here says he was right.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0047par0389	I've got good manners.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0046par0390	You're not gonna talk to me about this! You're not gonna talk to me about this!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0049par0391	Don't beat around the bush, bro.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0050par0392	Now, Mr. Elitaş, yes, I would like to request your...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0046par0393	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer. He described us as the Turkish enemy, the AK PARTI power.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0050par0394	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0046par0395	I'd like to say that this isn't the case, and that you've been carrying on. Because of the bullying...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0051par0396	He's doing theater, what a mess!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0052par0397	Mr. President, without making any promises, without making any promises, I'd like to propose something.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0053par0398	Mr. Altay, what is your request?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0052par0399	Now, I listened to the preacher very carefully. The preacher accused the government of Turkish hostility, right; he accused it of being a scarecrow, and that's true. But the government responds to criticism from the government, and I don't think it's right for the group to respond, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0054par0400	He's asking us to act!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0052par0401	Let the government answer.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0055par0402	I mean, on my behalf, how does he speak for you here?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0056par0403	Now, Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0052par0404	Mr. President, he criticised the government, orator. Then I will ask for a word, and he has criticised the government, and I want a word.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0056par0405	Now...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0057par0406	Here's your government, too.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0052par0407	Let the government respond.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0056par0408	Wait a minute, Mr. Group Vice Presidents, wait a minute. The government, of course, will answer the criticism of the government...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0052par0410	Let the government respond.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0056par0411	...but he's addressed the group here, and that's what he's called. So I'll give Mr. Elitas a two-minute window.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0052par0412	No, Mr. President, there are no charges against the group, ask for the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0058par0413	No, the government will answer. I'm on behalf of the AK PARTY Group...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0056par0414	If the government responds, they demand, they answer.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0052par0415	Mr. President, I'm claiming the clerk has no word for the group.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0059par0416	Yeah, yeah. Why don't the women's MPs of the AKP PARTY act?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0052par0417	Ask for the transcripts, then promise me.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0060par0418	You and Mr. Hunter will answer without teasing.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0061par0419	Let's take a look at the reports, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0052par0420	There's no criticism of the group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0062par0421	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0061par0422	Look at the transcripts, please.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0062par0423	Why are you bothering me?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0061par0424	In any way... he just blamed the government, nothing.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0063par0425	I did the group thing.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0062par0426	Mr. President listened very carefully.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0064par0427	No, you need to ask for the minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0063par0428	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0065par0429	Nothing.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0063par0430	We'll take another look at the records, yes. But I've heard about it. It's for the group. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0066par0432	Mr. President, the government will answer anyway.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0063par0433	I just saw the government's request. Let the government answer the group itself. Here you go, sir, without teasing.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0066par0437	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I've been looking at it for two days, and our friends from the Republican People's Party group's deputy and some of our friends from the National Movement Party are uncomfortable with the response given by the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0067par0439	No, we don't have that kind of disease. Let the government answer.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0066par0440	So they're saying, "Minister, why do you give it to the government when it's here?" You are worthy to be Minister of the Interior. They say them. Our friends, 311 MPs...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0067par0441	I know you've got your eye on it, you've got your eye on it.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0068par0442	You missed the train, Elitaş, there's no way it's gonna be you. But maybe they'll make you Prime Minister!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0066par0443	Look, what I'm saying is that 311 MPs have been chosen from all our qualified friends. (AK PARTY) So none of us can worry about it, have no fear, be welcome. These friends of ours are capable of any task.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0069par0444	Then why did you bring it from the outside?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0068par0445	And when those who disbelieved in you, Sulaiman noble, Numan saved, why did you bring them?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0066par0446	Oh, if you're judging with your group, I won't say anything. Our 311 MPs here do that, so don't bother about it, one.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0069par0447	Why did you bring the Home Secretary from outside?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0068par0448	There's nothing they haven't said to your president. Why did you bring it? If we tell you, you'll have hell on your hands.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0066par0449	Two, listen very carefully to the minister. The preacher here put his hand on the stand and accused our fellow lawmakers of being scarecrows. Plus, did you do the procedure on our women's MPs?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0068par0450	If I tell you what the nobleman said, you will all stand up here.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0066par0451	But I'm saying that he tried to express the persecution of our Turkmen brothers in connection with all the talks, all the rhetorics, the events that occurred in Iraq, in Mosul. We all agree that there's a persecution there, but the government is setting up a policy for the welfare of our people in that area, so that our people in that area are in a better position and not to face any danger.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0068par0452	What's his policy? What's his policy? Now, we ask you, what is the government's policy there?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0066par0453	This is what you did, by coming here and punching yourself on the platforms. It doesn't mean anything. It just means talking about your wife.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0070par0454	What have you done, Mr. Elitaş? Tell me what you made one.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0066par0455	Three: You bring here all the words of Arab Muslims, and you hold them in your bosom; you do not bring Turkmen Turk here and hold them in your bosom.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0070par0456	I said, "You're doing it right."
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0066par0457	Stop being such a fucking skullhead. Stop being such a racist.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0070par0458	You've brought the Syrians rightfully, but you're not bringing the Turkmen in unfairly.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0066par0459	We have embraced this nation as human, regardless of religion, religion, sex, race, whatever it may be. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We say that 77 million Turks in this country, Kurds, Alamis, Sunni, are all children of this country.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0070par0462	Say it, say it, say it, say it, say it, say it, say it, say it, say it. Tell me how many Turks have you brought.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0066par0463	We love each and every member of this world because of the Creator.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0071par0464	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0070par0465	Tell me, how many Turkmen have you brought? Tell me, tell me, I'll apologize to you too. Tell me.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0066par0466	Understand that. Look, look, I don't want to tell you anymore. Blessed day, the last days of Ramazan. I'm fasting.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0071par0467	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş, please...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0072par0468	Why are you telling me this? Why are you transmitting that you're fasting?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0066par0469	Blessed be everyone's Ramadan. I also congratulate you on the Festival of Ramadan.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0071par0470	Mr. Elitaş, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0073par0471	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0074par0472	Since when is it racist to love Turkishism?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0075par0473	And you say, "Is there anyone who fasts except you, that we fast?"
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0073par0474	Mr. President accused me of racism. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0074par0475	Since when is it racist to love Turkish and Turkish?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0076par0476	Mr. Halaçoglu, I'll give you my word now, but the government has asked for your word before because Mr. Oğan has teased you. On behalf of the government, I promise Mr. Hunter.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0077par0478	On the microphone, I'm fasting...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0078par0479	The Muslim tells each other, Mr. Haydar.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0077par0480	Why does the Muslim have to tell each other?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0079par0481	Congressmans, please take a more calm... Here you go, Mr. Hunter.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0080par0485	Mr. President, members of parliament, I condemn the speaker's inappropriate remarks to our government and our party group. The government's analogy about not doing anything about Turkmen, which, in fact, is incompatible with Turkey's healthy attitude towards the people of the region and is being discriminated against, even amongst the communities, as well as insinuating that it is not being helped by the Turkmen. Turkey helps Turkmen, but not by drumming.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0081par0488	You just said it. Mr. Secretary, you just said it clearly. You've made it public right now.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0080par0489	What?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0081par0490	What's the difference between us saying it and you saying it?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0082par0491	Listen a minute! Mr. President, intervene!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0083par0493	Please, Mr. Korkmaz, please...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0084par0494	Turkey doesn't do what it does by drumming.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0085par0495	You're saying Turkey helped. Is it a mistake when we say it?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0084par0496	That's all you asked me to say.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0085par0497	If there's something wrong with that, why are you talking to the government?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0086par0498	Mr. Korkmaz, please...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0084par0499	The Red Moon, AFAD, is doing what it needs to do, when it needs to be done, where it needs to be done. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0086par0502	Thank you, Mr. Hunter.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0087par0503	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0088par0504	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0086par0505	Let me listen to you, Mr. Oğan. Your request?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0088par0506	The speaker accused me of being a racist. It's a straight-up tease anyway. The representative of the government said it was rude. So, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0089par0507	He didn't say racist, he said racist.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0086par0508	Yes, Mr. Okan. You wanted a word at the same time, and since he's the one talking, I promise him, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0090par0510	My request stands, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0086par0511	Mr. Oğan, come in.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0091par0513	Thank you, Mr. President. I said, here, we're justifiably supporting the help we've had against our other people, and I didn't discriminate.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0092par0515	You're doing a show, a show!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0091par0516	I said, "You have rightly embraced our Syrian brothers. I even went back a little further, and the country in Aleppoce, who fled from the tyranny of Saddam, gave our Kurdish brothers a proper welcome. " I also condemned the persecution of our citizens in Kobani. Therefore, I'm not discriminated against. But I don't understand why you guys have such a grudge against Turk. Why don't you help the Turk? Turkmene...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0093par0519	You're still full of shit!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0094par0520	No grudge, no grudge! Unnecessary!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0095par0521	Are you out of your mind?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0096par0522	I said, "I'm going to apologize, come as the government and say that we have opened the door to 5,000 Turks."
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0097par0523	Didn't they come and get it?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0096par0524	Tell him we're looking at this camp. Tell him that. If there is, Minister, tell me.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0098par0525	You can't say...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0096par0526	How can you not say it? When a million and a half people come here, Mr. Prime Minister says that on TV every day, and you can't tell the Turkmen about their help?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0099par0527	We'll do a census, how many Turkmen...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0096par0528	I'm talking to the Turkmen, and the Turkmen say: "We're not getting enough help." So, if the Turkmen are being helped, how do we explain the starving children? How do we explain the burning child who's dying of 50 degrees dehydration? If you're helping, if you're handing the help over to the pessimist, if he's not giving it to Turkmen, it's your incompetence, sorry, folks. There's no help there. If there was help, the Turkmen wouldn't starve today. By the side of a large country like Turkey, their brothers are starving, dying of thirst; what should we rebel against and not punch the bench for? We're saying this because we're burning up here, and I'm not saying this to make an opposition. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Rest assured, do it, I'll get out of here and thank you in front of the Turkish nation. But do it, open the door, let the Turkmen come, and I promise you here, I'll come out and thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0100par0532	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Mr. Altay, I didn't quite understand your request.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0101par0534	What, we're just gonna take your word for it? Please don't give it to me!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0102par0535	Have you ever asked Mehmet Shandir, Mehmet Shandır?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0103par0536	Syrian Turkmen and Iraqi Turkmen are different things, you don't know... don't talk ignorantly!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0104par0537	Mr. Oğan, it's perfectly clear. I didn't understand your request.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0105par0539	Mr. President: Mr. Elitaş said this because I asked the MP not to respond to the government's criticisms in his speech... so I said: Mr. Orator has fallen into the government, has not offended you, has not offended you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0106par0540	Well, okay, if that's not what you said, I get it.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0105par0541	Yeah, I got to fix that.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0106par0542	Okay, well, that's clear. It's on the record.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0105par0543	I didn't say that the ruling MPs can't minister; he's capable, he's capable, he's not capable. I didn't say that. I have to fix this, Mr. President. 311 will turn against me.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0107par0544	Here you go, Mr. Altay. Fix it. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0105par0547	Thank you. Every member of parliament who sits in this parliament is entitled to sit in these seats as well as those who sit in it, and I'll tell you that first. Mr. Elitaş, you're fasting for yourself, sugar rising, you don't know what you're saying here.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0108par0549	I measured it, good sugar.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0105par0550	So I'll point out to him. On the other hand, it turned out that your honor had a real share of what she was talking about. ▪ Are you helping the Turks? You don't. He said.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0109par0551	We do.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0105par0552	Mr. Secretary, you're going to say, "Sister, this is what we've done." But you don't have the right to say it or anything, but I'll tell you something else: Mr. Secretary, you're close here, look, there's a map here. Those red dots are all conflicted.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0109par0553	47 trucks of help are gone.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0105par0554	In southern Turkey, Syria, Iraq, at these red dots, people die, Muslims die. At eight different points, people, children are dying, murdered, raped, buried alive. The great plague of this government is the turning of the Middle East into a pool of blood. (CHP cheers) This government has a great plague. I don't know who sent the terrorists there -- El Nusra, Al Qaeda -- all the same community, the same head, the same understanding -- whoever sent them the tank, the missile helmet, whoever sent them to them, whoever sent them to them, including the use of our land and airspace through Turkey, whoever caused it, God damn it, God damn it.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0110par0556	Thank you, Mr. Altay. In his favour, Isparta MP Ali Haydar Öner. Here you go, Mr. Proposal.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0111par0563	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from Mr. Pervin Buldan, the Iğdır MP, on 14 April 2014 as Deputy Chairman of the Party for Peace and Democracy, and now as Vice President of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, on behalf of the HDP Group, on behalf of CHP. I salute our deputies. Peoples' Democratic Party group proposal was submitted on April 14, 2014. At that time, using Islamic values, holy values were exploited, especially in the districts of Güngören, Bağcılar and Başakşehir, Treasurer, Marshal Çakmak and other neighborhoods, where our country was tricked into joining the organisation using the name Damascus Islamic State, and it was said to be investigated. It's clear today that this group proposal is a very accurate prediction, but who cares? Those in charge care. But does the AKP Group care about one person's personal ambitions? When tension rose in Syria, Turkey changed its brother's name to "Esed" and supported all elements against the regime. The United States abandoned its cooperation with Turkey against Damascus, when it was discovered that there were radical organisations such as Al Qaeda, Al Nusra, supported. The organization was founded by Abu Musab Zerkavi and joined Al Qaeda, which changed its name to "Tevhid" and "Mezopotamia al-Qaeda." Abu Hamza Al-Muhajir and Abu Omar Al-Bağdadi later founded the Islamic State of Iraq, after the killing of Omar El-Bağdadi in 2010, led the group Abu Bakir El-Bedadi first to the Islamic State of Iraq, and later to the Islamic State of Iraq. In Syria, from Rakka, from the north, Telafer and Musul (Musul) reached the border of Tuzhurmatu (Sharhurmatatu) to the border of Iran, taking over Ramadi and Fallujah in the south, and threatening Baghdad. The organisation dreams of forming nine states in Syria and seven in Iraq. Whose support did the ISIS grow up with? ISIS was joined by jihadists from Turkey. Was there any help with the weapons and supplies?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0112par0569	Done.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0111par0570	To whom were the trucks captured in Adana delivering weapons and ammunition?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0113par0571	ISIS.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0111par0572	Why can't you call ISIS a terrorist organization?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0114par0573	We trained him!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0111par0574	There are two reasons why you can't call a terrorist organization a terrorist: one is considered a friend; another is feared by that organization. It's not like either of them. What about this tyrannical community, which entered the places where they attacked in convoys, shot at every person they saw mercilessly, shot at what they had received, used the name of Islam, yet lack of Islamic and human emotion? How are Turkey's current relations with organisations that it supports because they are fighting against the Syrian regime? To whom did Turkey's hitting Syria benefit? Can you say that the weakening of the Syrian regime, which strongly opposes Israel, encouraged the cruel rulers of Israel? Shouldn't we reassess the situation of Israel's conscience as Israel strikes the Golan Heights, while Israel strikes Gaza mercilessly? Dear MPs, on June 11th, our consul generalship of Mosul was raided. Minister of Foreign Affairs Ahmet Davutoglu said a day ago that all measures were taken for Musul. He didn't tell ISIS, and because ISIS didn't know about it, they came and raided our consulate. How many times must no one attempt to test our power? said Mr. Davutoglu. The measures he took were not understood. He must have mixed the test and the test. The Governor of Mosul came to Turkey before the invasion of Mosul. What did they say? When ISIS endured Mosul, why did Mr. Governor not resist, disband the army, withdraw? On June 11th, ISIS entered Mosul with a warning to capture the consulate officials. The order from Turkey was to surrender. Turkey has been burdened with heavy negligence. He didn't evacuate our citizens, his consulate officials, his relatives first, he didn't reduce his staff, the cosmic document wasn't destroyed before the invasion. That kind of government, that kind of State Department app? Who's the minister who resets himself? We have brothers, relatives, relatives in Syria, Iraq. ISIS has inflicted persecution, massacres, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, the Foreign Minister's voice is silent. Deputy Secretary of State says there's no problem. It's hard to understand how to call so many problems "not." The Prime Minister says, if you are a Muslim, leave the consul general's office. What a state of the Prime Minister who wanted to pray in the Emevi Mosque! The presidential candidate, the Prime Minister, sees what date for rescue scenarios, such as pilots kidnapped in Lebanon, as a result of the state's insecurities? It was a script. It's a good scenario for hijacked pilots. The role is perfect, but our consulate administrators, their families, their children, they're deprived of their freedom, they're worried about their lives. Turkmen in Syria, Iraq, Kurds, Arabs, Christians, other religions are our brothers, relatives. In places he invaded, ISIS rounded up non-his own sects, shot, slaughtered, Turks, Kurds, non-denominational Arabs, and Christians, killed, wounded, drove. Our brothers and kinsmen are on the road, in the angry wilderness; hungry and miserable men, innocent children and mothers cry out. What is the difference between Abu Bakir El Bağdadi, who became ISIS' leader and declared himself caliph, and the deputy who passed the Koran to the end of his spears against Hazreti Ali, during the Battle of Süffin? How is Kerbala different from the one who martyred the prophet's grandson? Can we call someone like that a Muslim?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0115par0584	We can't.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0111par0585	This motion must be supported, and the activities of ISIS must be thoroughly investigated. The possible consequences of this terrorist organization and its actions should be investigated by our Parliament, so-called Islamic state or whatever the hell it is. The Islamic world must be saved from the monster who exploits Islamic emotions. I pay tribute to those who deserve it.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0116par0588	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. Against him, Amassian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0117par0592	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. First of all, the ISID terrorist organization is being speculated, is it not? The Republic of Turkey has taken the state of Turkey on the list of ISIS terror organizations, so it defines it as a terrorist organization; there is no need for speculation; ISIS is a terrorist organization. You come out here and you know it like that, and that's how you know it. There's no point in saying it, let me just say it first.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0118par0594	We're gonna ask you how to describe it?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0117par0595	Second: As I was listening to Sinan Bey, I thought of Hussein Nihal without Horse.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0119par0596	His bones are aching, his bones!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0120par0597	What a surprise!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0119par0598	The bones of Nihal Horseless.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0599	Friends here know about horseless people. Nihal without Horse says at the end of the road: When we're being sent away today, we're going back to an outsider. Maybe not one person will come to us. It's a bone that goes for hours and hours and hours. Even the Mutts will laugh at our loneliness. Hüseyin Nihal Atiz is a writer and poet of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0122par0605	He thinks and thinks, but don't underestimate him just because he's a poet.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0606	Should there be a man in the Republic of Turkey who would laugh at the loneliness of even the Mutts? No. But he had such a sense of Turkishism in his head that the imaginary Turkishness separated him from the real Turks in Turkey, even separated him from the people in the mp -- some of your friends here don't know the past, I know the past -- even separated him from them. Those who were with Hussain Nihal Atless did not pass by three, nor five. If you really live in a world where you don't connect with people in public with real references and feelings, then you're a lonely person where even the Mutts will laugh at your loneliness. It's a fate in the state of the Republic of Turkey, where one, you know, the imaginary Turk in his mind takes him, and the Turkish he thinks is his prison, and it has nothing to do with true Turkishness. Why am I saying this? So, the AK PARTY Group -- excuse me -- a political movement that has received 50 percent of the vote, 21 million votes, has been in power for 12 years.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0123par0608	You got 43 percent of the vote, 50 percent of where? And you're gonna be a teacher!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0609	Excuse me, excuse me... So, the people who voted for this delegation, the people who voted for this anti-Turkish delegation, aren't they Turks? Do they vote according to their Turkish hostility?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0124par0611	They don't give it to the Turk.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0612	What kind of head is that? Now, if that's the way to create an imaginary Turky, then, indeed, nationalism will be taken to a solitude where even the Mutts will laugh at their loneliness. It's naive nationalism, it's childish nationalism.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0125par0614	Hussain Nihal said a lot of things without Horses. And don't forget what you read and what's not good for you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0126par0615	You were after that dream once.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0616	Also, I'd like to point out, friends, that we're here to pretend that we're talking about a very dramatic situation in conflict...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0126par0617	No drama?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0127par0618	You don't think there's anything there, do you?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0619	...in the end, there's a context for saying that the AK PARTI is hostile and hostile: I don't hesitate to use it if I have to speak to the AK PARTY, even the blood of Turkmen (Turkmen) in Iraq.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0128par0620	Mr. Hodja, should they criticize the Spanish government?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0621	That's how people know, and that's how I know where I'm sitting.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0128par0622	Criticize the Spanish government? Tell who? Of course he'll tell you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0623	There's no good in Turkish. In the Republic of Turkey, to the ruling party, to a party that received 50 per cent of the vote, you are an enemy of Turkicism.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0129par0624	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0625	...is not a service to nationalism.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0129par0626	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0130par0627	Is that what you're worried about? What in God's name are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0628	I know what my concern is; you don't know what the past is, and you don't know what the past is.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0130par0629	I don't care about your worries, I don't care about words, I'm interested in action.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0630	You don't know, you don't know the past.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0130par0631	I don't do words, I do deeds.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0131par0632	We know about your past.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0633	You are Bozkurts in the freedom of 2014, provided by the AK PARTY. You're today's Bozkurts.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0130par0635	It's not talk, it's action.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0636	I know the past, too. Nevzat, don't say anything. Speech!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0130par0637	We're talking about ideals, not singing! Don't talk turkish!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0638	You talk, you do your thing, that's all.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0132par0639	You can't even be a Turkist, pass the singer, the inventor!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0133par0640	Please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0641	Dear friends, of course I'm a nationalist. People who claim to serve the Turkish nation must be wise.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0134par0642	That's right! Look where you're coming from!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0643	In the end, what does it bring to my party? An intelligence based on its account is not a service to nationalism. Therefore, you will pay attention to every word you say. Showing the AK PARTI here as an enemy of Turkey will not even bring you three votes, but the head is constantly left to me, with this Turkic enemy, this Turkic enemy. Hussain Nihal Horseless Head. You go to your solitude. Wrong. If your claim is to serve Turkish, this head is wrong. There's no service to the Turks. Secondly, are you helping Turkishman? Brother Sinan, you are acting in such conflicts here that I thought we were in a state of mental distress, writhing and screaming.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0135par0645	Behave yourself, behave yourself!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0646	You have 24 hours, excuse me... 24 hours when you sit in your seat like this, if you're in a trance, if you're sleeping with Turkmen, it's okay, but I see that you're sitting, you're laughing, you're living your day-to-day life, and whatever happens when you get here, there's a dramatic situation here. I think of the word of the Lord Shahabethin. Holiness Shahabattin said: "The more the weather likes it, the more the applause, the more the crowd likes it. " Now, if you're trying to bring up a dramatic picture here with the assumption that the more you applaud, the more you think you'll like it, it won't wake up. These people know exactly who's been doing what they've been doing for 12 years, and they've got a sense of what they're doing, and they've got a love of Turkishness, and it's a good thing they do, and they're acting in that direction. As Sait Halim Pasha said, please don't go from ideas to reality, come from reality to ideas. Otherwise, there are some of you who don't read Ahmet Hikmet Muftuoğlu's people who cry, and you'll be like, "How did Turhan Get Mad?" Don't dream about Turkey, face the reality of Turkey, change your ideas in his direction.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0136par0648	Keep your opinions to yourself, brother!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0649	Let's not be held hostage by our own knowledge.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0137par0650	Plus we're gonna take advice from a guy who's been released from infinity to minus infinity?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0651	Thousands of years ago, that Chinese scholar said: "What can I tell you about the frog who is a prisoner of his own swamp?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0137par0652	Where were you, where were you, where did you come from?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0138par0653	Why are the Turks closed?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0654	We won't be prisoners of our own swamp.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0138par0655	Teacher, it's simple, tell Turkmen why the border is closed. You don't have to say anything else, just say it, why is it closed?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0656	Dear friends, I've actually come to talk about HDP's group proposal, but you're coming with another intention, you're having another conversation, which is probably mutual interaction.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0138par0657	You have two minutes and thirty-three seconds, tell Turkmen why the border is closed.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0139par0658	He doesn't know!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0659	As for HDP's proposal... Oh, by the way, the Republic of Turkey is reaching out to everyone in the region.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0139par0661	Yes, yes!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0662	When you go out and do it here, you tell me the number, you don't have to tell me what to say.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0140par0663	Except the Turks, except the Turks!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0664	Yeah, yeah, he helps out.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0141par0665	Teacher, everywhere he lays his hand, people die!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0666	You will do nothing but what you do.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0142par0667	Is that right?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0121par0668	It's not like that... It's not like that.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0143par0669	They showed us the dead.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0142par0670	We don't export terror, enough, we don't export terror, we don't export terrorists! You set a record in exporting!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0144par0672	Anyone who is oppressed, Turkmeni, Kurd, Arab, anyone who is oppressed, you will lay hands on him because you and we are actually on the same values, not very separate.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0145par0673	No.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0144par0674	And you won't be any different. You're on one side of the universe, we're not on the other side of the universe.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0146par0675	That's right, we're not going to raise terrorists, we're not going to send them there, we're going to spill Muslim blood, that's right.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0147par0676	We don't help terrorists.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0148par0677	Send weapons with trucks, and then why kill men, why slaughter Muslims...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0149par0678	Dear friends, we all breathe in the common atmosphere of the Republic of Turkey. There'll be political divisions, there'll be competition. It's not realistic and it's not service to this country to think of it as two different parties in a different world, two different types of people.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0150par0679	We are from other worlds!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0151par0680	Are these people gonna learn the truth from you?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0149par0681	It's clear what the state of the Republic of Turkey can do, its resources are clear. You probably don't expect him to start a war. Of course, he'll do some humanitarian work.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0152par0682	Why? You were waging war on Syria with the anti-aircraft!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0149par0683	Of course, the international forums will speak of human dramas in Middle Eastern geography.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0153par0684	Has it just occurred to you that politics is the art of the possible?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0154par0685	Where's your Hakan, your Davutoglu, your Fidan? Who wrote the script?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0153par0686	When you challenged Egypt, when you challenged Iraq, Iran... did you just think of real politics?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0155par0687	Our foreign policy is based on justice and justice.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0156par0688	Is it justice and justice with a rocket?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0155par0689	That's what a strong Turkey will contribute to this global system. We're following it today, so whoever's here tomorrow has to act in the same direction because my opinion of the international system is that the most important value of the state of the Republic of Turkey is a stand in the direction of justice and justice. We're doing it today, and hopefully tomorrow it'll be a blessing to others, and I know that it's only those in this direction who can decide whether or not they can get support from the people. Otherwise, if you have any other ideas in your head, you won't have the opportunity or the opportunity. I couldn't talk about the HDP motion. Actually, they brought the same motion. I was going to have a different conversation about the same motion, so let's leave it for another spring. Thank you very much. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0157par0693	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0158par0694	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0157par0695	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0158par0696	Mr. Speaker, you will be wise. Even the dogs laugh at you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0157par0697	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0159par0698	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0157par0699	Mr. Oğan, are you...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0159par0700	Sir, in the same way, by mentioning my name, your psychological condition is broken. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer after our Group Vice President because he's been picking on our group.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0157par0701	I promise you, Mr. Oğan, that he's picking on you. Then I'll promise you as a group, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0160par0702	Mr. President, then I have to...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0161par0703	Mr. President, it's always the same thing with the House.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0157par0704	He mentions his name...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0161par0705	He's insulting himself, he's speaking incorrectly, he's inept.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0162par0706	She said he's sick. What else can he say to him?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0157par0707	Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0163par0710	Now, my dear friends, at least here, he told me something about the Turkmen -- at least nine minutes of lecture -- but one minute we did this about the Turkmen, we opened the border, we opened the border. I expected him to say something, but he doesn't.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0164par0711	He's out of his mind to teach you a lesson!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0163par0712	My teacher has nothing to say because there's nothing you can do.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0165par0713	What kind of Turkmen have you done for yourself?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0163par0714	My teacher says, the speaker says: "These don't bring you votes. " Dear friends, that's the difference between us, we don't see Turkmen as votes.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0166par0715	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0163par0716	We don't vote on Turkmen.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0167par0717	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0163par0718	My teacher told me that your psychological condition is broken.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0168par0719	It's broken, yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0167par0720	He didn't say it was broken, he said it should be checked.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0163par0721	Sir, I'm sorry, but if you're not upset by this violence...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0169par0722	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0170par0723	I'm healthy, thank God.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0163par0724	...if you're still living your daily life in the face of violence...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0171par0725	Don't you live your daily life?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0163par0726	I'm sorry, Hodja, he's been in this movement in the past, but you've learned nothing from this movement.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0172par0727	The ineffective response isn't helping.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0163par0728	Dear friends, while the Turkmen were dying there, I was here as a Turk...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0173par0729	Tell me, what good are you to any Turk?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0163par0730	I'm proud of being Turkish, and I don't like the death of the Turkmen there, and I don't want the children to be left hungry and thirsty, and my conscience doesn't agree.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0173par0731	It's nobody's.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0174par0732	What good did you do?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0175par0733	What did you do, what did you do?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0176par0734	If your heart is content, if that's not corrupting your psychology, if your conscience is clear...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0177par0735	Come on!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0176par0736	I'm telling you, those Turkmen kids will have both hands on your back in that world.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0178par0737	God, we don't know whose hand it's gonna be on.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0176par0738	Dear friends, about the Turkmen, let a servant of God, either the government, or a deputy or a deputy member of the group, say: "We have not closed the border of Iraq, the Turkmen can come here if you have the courage to tell us this, we are ready to listen here. [[Is it right to come from the AK PARTY ranks? sound]] Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0179par0741	Thank you, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0180par0742	Why did you bring it?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0176par0743	Why shouldn't he come? A million and a half Syrians are coming here, and it's true, but will it be wrong when Turkmen arrive? You take 1.5 million Syrians, why can't you take 1 Turkmen?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0179par0745	Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0176par0746	Your hostility towards the Turk is clear.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0179par0747	Thank you, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0181par0748	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0179par0749	Mr. Halaçoglu wants to speak on behalf of the government after speaking because of the bullying. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0182par0752	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, of course, I'd like to remind you of the promise of an ancestor here: that a man's service is his work.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0183par0754	That's right, Hajji, that's right.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0182par0755	You're in a way that doesn't match what you say or what you're doing. The teacher said, "Where is he? Show me. There's no such thing as a terrorist organization. Also, our consul general of Mosul is now the headquarters of ISIS, but you're not making a sound to him either.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0184par0758	You're not investigating, tell your counselor to look into it.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0182par0759	You can't make a sound to ISIS, the people who cut off their heads by saying, "God is great." You probably think they're not people, so you don't make a sound to those who cut their heads off. Now, you're talking to me about Horseless. Pay more attention to the words of the Horseless first, if you know. Look, the Horseman says: "We are Turkish, based on our history and our close history, and we have a right to be proud of it." For God's sake, you can't even say the word "Turk" out of your mouth, but you can't come out of the Constitution, but you can read the poem of Horseless. The poem of the horseless...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0185par0762	They don't know what it means, what it means...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0186par0763	The abuse, the abuse!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0182par0764	Look, one day when we're being sent away, we're going to have to go back to an outsider. Maybe not even one person will come to us. / Even the Mutts, who travel for hours after a bone, will laugh at our lonelyness. Without a horse, he says. Now, do you think that... you just don't see people in Gaza as human beings and see others as human beings... You don't see them as human beings because for the Turkmen who were massacred there...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0187par0766	Why do you say that, Hajji? Why wouldn't we?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0188par0767	The oppressed are oppressed everywhere. Every underdog is precious to us.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0182par0768	Why do you mourn Gaza for three days and not mourn the Turkmen? It's a ritual, I said. You don't listen to people. Those who mourn Gaza for three days should also mourn the Turkmen for three days.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0189par0769	Not at all!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0182par0770	But you can't, you can't, because your Prime Minister... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and there's nothing in his mouth. Because you're just people who act out of their feelings of decency and they're racist.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0190par0774	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0191par0775	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0192par0776	You're the greatest racist!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0193par0777	It's obvious who's racist.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0194par0778	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0195par0779	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0194par0780	What was Mr. Baluken for?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0195par0781	Mr. President, there's been some public disintegration information regarding an incident in the border area since last night. I'd like to speak to you about my position in order to inform the General Assembly correctly.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0194par0782	I promise you after Mr. Hunter's speech. Here you go, Mr. Hunter.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0196par0784	Sir, I want to make one thing clear. Sir, one sentence...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0194par0785	Sir?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0196par0786	I never said Sinan Bey was psychologically disturbed.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0197par0787	That's what you said.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0198par0788	That's what we thought.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0196par0789	On the contrary, I said it was perfectly healthy.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0199par0790	Stop with the puns!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0196par0791	I merely stated that he acted differently when he came to the stand. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0200par0793	Then you need a cure, you're always misunderstood.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0201par0794	All right, he's on the record and he's on the right track. Here you go, Mr. Hunter.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0202par0798	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I can see more or less the entire House from where I'm sitting. Indeed, Naci Bey's identification is very accurate. Some of our friends have very different platform performances and seat performances.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0203par0800	What does that mean? What kind of word is that? What does that mean?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0204par0801	The General Assembly understands you very well, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0205par0802	It suits a minister, especially the Minister of National Education!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0203par0803	Mr. Secretary, you have to answer that.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0205par0804	I condemn you with regret. That's a great line for a Minister of National Education! I condemn you with regret.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0206par0805	Besides, from here...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0205par0806	For the third time, it looks great on a Minister of National Education.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0207par0807	He's crying on the stand there, he's laughing, isn't he going to tell him?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0206par0808	In short, Turkey has included al-Qaeda, Al-Nusra and ISIS on its list of terrorist organisations in terms of its own legislation.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0208par0809	Then why are you helping terrorist organizations?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0209par0811	Were you handing out the help, were you there?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0210par0812	Why don't you condemn it, why can't you say terrorist?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0211par0813	On what date, on what decision did you make?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0212par0814	As for charity, 47 trucks have been moving to Iraq, Iraq's Turks only through Kızılay in the last 15 days, 20 trucks tomorrow from Gaziantep to Telafer. The total number of trucks is 176.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0213par0815	Are you blushing?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0212par0816	You can also read what AFAD is doing on the website of AFAD.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0214par0817	Minister, how many Turks have come to Turkey?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0212par0818	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0215par0820	You'll get a little mad!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0216par0821	Thank you, Mr. Hunter.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0217par0822	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0216par0823	After the vote, I promise you, it's not really about that. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Come in, Mr. Bauken, you have a statement to make.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0218par0831	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised to inform the General Assembly. Yesterday, I'd like to point out that we've been following conflicting statements about the knowledge that two soldiers lost their lives in a conflict in the Ceylannar border area. Yesterday, just after the incident, a statement by the Urban Governorate at the scene of the crime stated that the incident took place on Monday (July 21st) as a result of a clash with smugglers and that one soldier had lost his life. Today, the statement issued by the Chief of Staff stated that PYD was responsible for the incident, answered with fire in response to the fire and lost the lives of six PYD people. First of all, the PYD is a political party fighting for democratic Syria, fighting all terrorist elements in Syria, threatening Syrian democracy, and fighting political battles. There's no military activity. The force that operates there is YPG, and the YPG is fighting not only to protect the interests of the PYD, but to protect the will of all the people of Syria. We have studied and studied these conflicting explanations, and we have also met with our friends in Rojava. Everyone in the area knows that the area is an area used by smugglers, and the public and state officials there know it. As a result of these discussions, our friends at Rojava have made it very clear to us that there had never been a conflict between the YPG forces and the Turkish army. In the media news now, President of the People's Assembly of Serekaniya Binxet, Ferec Mihemed has stated that there is no conflict in which the YPG forces enter, that the region is an area used by smugglers, that there is not a single YPG warrior who has lost his life or was injured. Besides, it's P.D. and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, this is very important. I'd like another half minute of your time.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0219par0839	Mr. Secretary, don't go, wait a minute.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0220par0840	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0218par0841	Mr. President, from my last sentence, I'll try to finish in a minute. Mr. Ferec Mihemed, Chairman of the People's Assembly of Serekania, has made it clear that there is no conflict involving the YPG forces, that the region is a territory used by smugglers, that there is no YPG warrior who has lost his life or has been injured, that it is intended to be associated with PYD and YPG. Again, a statement made by YPG Serekaniye Command has been made clear to the press that they had nothing to do with it, that they did not have a single warrior injured or lost his life, and that a detailed explanation of the matter would be shared with the public in the coming hours. So...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0221par0845	Mr. President, he's not a spokesman for the PYD here! What does the PYD's statement have to do with this, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0218par0846	Mr. President, in the interest of correcting the General Assembly...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0221par0847	The PYD makes its statements, and that doesn't happen in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. President, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0218par0848	Mr. President, if you shut him up, I will express my intentions! Is that a thing?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0221par0850	The PYD is an organisation outside Turkey. Such an explanation of an organization outside Turkey cannot be present.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0218par0851	You've been provoking this House since yesterday.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0222par0852	Congressmans, a word...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0221par0853	Mr. President can't act here like a spokesman for an organization outside of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0222par0854	Please, please... he has made a commitment to make a statement, to inform the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0221par0855	Sir, he's making a statement from the PYD. The P.D.D. will explain.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0222par0856	Please complete your statement, and we're done.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0223par0857	Mr. President, the reason we're making a statement is that the forces that want to provoke a historic Kurdish and Turkish war are in effect. These forces aim for a new period of conflict, in order to give false information to the public. In particular, they want to bring in a series of conspiracies, which have very serious consequences between Rojava and Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0222par0859	Thank you, Mr. Baluken, it's clear.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0223par0860	Therefore, both the ruling party and the government must seek out all the details of the incident and make public the necessary statements regarding those responsible. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0222par0862	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0224par0863	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0222par0864	Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0224par0866	I just told you... to inform me that ISIS is a terrorist organization, Mr. Secretary of State has been listed as a terrorist organization in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0222par0867	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0224par0868	State that there is no ISIS on the list of new terrorist organisations published in the Official Gazette by the Council of Ministers of June 19, 2014. I mean, tell me if he left after June 19th, but he's not.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0225par0869	No, no, no.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0226par0870	But he's not telling the truth, Minister.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0224par0871	Second: In the incident at Ceylanpınar, the governorate states that he was a smuggler in the incident of the martyrdom of two of our soldiers, the Joint Chiefs of Staff states that he was a terrorist. Which one do we believe? Let the government make a statement.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0227par0872	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0228par0873	Mr. President, I'd like to make a point, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0227par0874	Mr. Altay, come in. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0228par0876	We call Turkey a big country, we call it a big state. The day before yesterday in Suruç, yesterday in Ceylanınar, our soldiers died, and were martyrs. A state that doesn't know who killed its soldier is going to become a guardian and a brother in the Middle East! This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As Mr. Group Deputy President said, Turkey is a huge geography of all kinds of provocative, geostrategic importance that has been in the eyes of the world since its existence. If this Parliament cannot find out what is going on in Suruç, let it be destroyed! Is that even possible?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0227par0878	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0228par0879	Just a minute, Mr. President. The government is there. The government must inform this Parliament immediately. If he doesn't, I, like Sinan Okan, accuse the government of being a scarecrow!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0229par0881	Get out of here, then get out of here!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit01spe0230par0882	Thank you, Mr. Altay. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0230par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 123th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The National Party of Action Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday 22/7/2014 (now) there is no consensus among political party groups, I propose that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. The agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been proposed on Tuesday (May 22/07/2014) to determine the problems of the Big Attack in our province of Afyonkarahisar, which is the main number of Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz and his friends (10/399) in the part of the General Assembly's General Assembly's General Assembly's agenda, the investigation of the past, today's and future, in order to make it appropriate for the importance of our history. On the other hand, Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0231par0018	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group, which we have proposed as the National Movement Party to open the Parliament for administrative and institutional regulations in order to determine the problems of the Big Attack in our province of Afyonkarahisar, to determine the problems of the Big Attack, to investigate today and its future, to make it relevant in our history. I salute your high council. Although it has been ninety-two years, the Great Attack remains important in the national and international area with increasing interest. The foundation of the Republic of Turkey, written by epics, our struggle for existence, is the most important phase of the Battle of Salvation, the Great Attack. Commander-in-Chief Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, on 26 August 1922, launched the Grand offensive from the 1,874 rakımlı Kobtepe in the central town of Büçükkalecık, Afyonkarahisar Province, Turkey. The importance of Kocatepe is undisputed in the history of the Republic of Turkey. Bigtepe is no different from the Gallipoli Peninsula, one of the key points in Turkish history. However, for years, Bigtepe has been sadly forgotten. It's not a coincidence that Bigtepe was chosen to be the starting point for the Great Attack. It is possible to view all the lands occupied by the Greek army as panoramics from the 1.874 Laype. Today, it is possible to see clearly the trenches, positions, enemy trenches, firing points used by our army. A limited landscaping study was carried out in 1993 by the Ataturk Memorial in Kocatepe. In this case, once a year, it is no more than a monument that our citizens can visit on August 26th. Bigtepe needs to be valued, its history fully researched and transferred to future generations. A serious recursive study in the field must be performed to ensure that people will visit without harming historical tissue or environment, complete understanding of our history, become a centre for culture and history tourism. It's the seal of our thousand-year brotherhood and the deed of our republic, Bigtepe. For the sake of religion, for the sake of honor, for the sake of the land, for the freedom of the flag, for the sons of my country who drank the sherbet for the flag lie down in the sheep's sheep, the Captain of Bayburt, in the Prince of Achah. The basis of the Republic is the result of our political, legal, and social organization, which has been created through this zeal and sacrifice, blending with national and spiritual values, and leading to great goals with hope and hope. At this point, the Republic of Turkey today faces heavy threats as a result of the unfortunate neglect, exclusion, exclusion, occasional destruction of the republic's will, as a result of the stealthy, intuitive ingestion of the imperial forces that cannot obtain the cannon with a rifle. Our symbol of independence and honor, our sign of unity and brotherhood, our star-moon flag, today is the target of the treacherous furya. At certain intervals, the Turkish flag has been lowered or attempted to lower its sights. It's not a family thing, it's not a random thing. Turkish culture is on the verge of serious alienation and corruption. The historical song issue is taking place step by step. For centuries, the plan to remove Turks from Asia Minor, reduce Islam, terrorize is progressing step by step towards its goal. The political and armed contractors of this treacherous emele are pulling our country into a great stalemate every day. The AKP's senior executives, the Grand Middle East Project Co-Chair and political subcontract, and the PKK, the armed contractor of the Grand Middle East Project, have handed over and are taking very serious hits on our national and unitary state structure, our territorial integrity, our national unity, and our unity. Unfortunately, in our country, we examine with regret that morality, law, conscience, honesty, peace and brotherhood have been eroding every day. The Turkish nation won't accept such a disgrace, can't bear it, and I believe it won't. As always, he will show the virtue of choosing truth, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is in a very difficult geography. The ethnic and religious rivalries around us continue to shed blood, and our neighbors are in serious chaos. The Great Middle East Project was formed today as the most unstable area in the world by scratching for differences in the Middle East, ethnic, religious, ideological and sect. What happened, you say, Arab Spring? Arab Spring is blood, tears, and death is no spring like this. What happened to Libya? What happened to Egypt? What happened to Syria? Yesterday, the BOP Co-Chair, who boasted as the patron and architect of the Arab Spring, came out with a new expression, and he continues to say it as if it were in every environment he went to. The BOP Co-Chair's new Turkey is a structure where Turkishism will be trampled, nationalism will be trampled, separatists will be spoken and guided. Unfortunately, in the new Turkey of the Grand Middle Eastern Project's Co-Chair, there will be lying, wandering, ransacking, banning, alienation, camping, fraud, hypocrisy and hypocrisy. The new Turkey, the Co-Chair of the Great Middle East Project, will be the name of a country where the word of tyrants, bandits, national spirit and national morality has been undermined, unemployment, poverty, poverty, and our innocent people have been abused. The new Turkey, which the Grand Middle East Project Co-Chair has promised, has apologized to the Armenian diaspora, abandoned Cyprus, sold the Aegean to the Greeks, the Mediterranean to the Greeks, the Greeks, and the invaders, making monuments to the rebels and the invaders, making traitors the crown of traitors, making them a common reason. The new Turkey of the Grand Middle East Project Co-Chair is a country that assumes that women's murders will be linked to automatics, the age of drug use will be reduced, the number of offenders and criminals will be skyrocketed, the number of executive agencies will increase, the tradeshop, the civil servant, the farmer, the pensioner, the worker, will not give life, even disappear. The new Turkish statement of the Grand Middle Eastern Project Co-Chair is that 17-25 Erdogan will be dictatorized, there is a view of a country where the thieves will be beaten, where the state treasure will be robbed and the law will be officially broken, and the law will be formalized. This is unacceptable and will not be accepted, dear lawmakers. The date of October 29, 1923 has been a myth of a new Turkey for us. This milled that the new Turkey, the Co-Chair of the Great Middle East Project, and the political subcontractor 17-25 Erdogan and BOP armed contractors will not even be able to beat the PKK and other groups of interests that will never get old. The will of the people who stood up as a Turkish nation from the land where the republic was founded 90 years ago will not allow it. The Turkish nation will not unite around the will to form its republic and leave Turkey unclaimed. I look forward to your support in these feelings and thoughts of our research proposal, and I salute your grand delegation, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0232par0038	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0233par0039	You didn't mention the research motion.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0231par0040	I think it's pretty much...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0233par0041	You never mentioned opium. At least let me tell you about Afyon.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0234par0042	"Afyon" means "national unity," meaning "Afyon" means "history."
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0233par0043	But he didn't tell me.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0234par0044	"Afyon" means "Republic of Turkey." If you don't know any of this, read some of it, look at the date.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0235par0045	Against him, Afyonkarahisar MP Halil Product. Here you go, Mr. Product.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0236par0047	Mr. President, I would like to welcome the esteemed lawmakers to address today's agenda of a research motion by the National Movement Party in the last few months of 2011. I salute you all with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0237par0048	You can't hold it against Bigtepe, but there's a lot of apocalypse blood.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0236par0049	Now, I have the motion, which is exactly what I was going to say, thank you, Mr. Kemalettin. Now, you're writing in the motion that we ask for a motion to investigate the issues of the Big Attack, the past, the present, and the future, to make administrative and institutional legal arrangements worthy of the importance of our history. You're saying. In the talk that you've just made in favor, you're not saying anything about the meaning and importance of the Bigtepe, about the past, about the future, on the contrary, you're presenting a statement of your own, which is contrary to the facts that we will never accept, in general, completely made up and as if it were a negative idea of the future of the Turkish nation. We need to talk about Bigtepe. We need to talk about the past, the future of Bigtepe. But you're displaying a negative picture of a government trying to prepare Turkey for the 100th anniversary of the republic, founded in 1923, by making the actions of a prime minister working for it and lawmakers working for it completely blacken the whites. There's no way that's acceptable. Now, I'd like to present a few things to the High Council, and so should your counterparts. This side of the motion you submitted two years ago, you know, we spend a week together at these ceremonies every year. There are new developments every year. Serious projects are being carried out so that the ceremony, the ceremony, can be moved further out of another week, starting the night of the end of the Great Attack, which is the most important point of our Liberation War. Both in the area of the Big Attack -- in the national parks -- and in other areas of this war -- in our district of Dumlupınar of Kütahya, in Zafertepe, in Çalköy, and in all other lands where the Battle of Salvation had been. Dear lawmakers, but as with all service projects in Turkey, these projects continue at least three times the scheduled time. The whole area is a national park, the entire area area and the Ministry of Culture, projects that should be approved by the Eskişehir Cultural Preservation Regional Council, projects that have changed every time, the government, the Ministry, the General Directorate of the National Parks, has tripled the work they're trying to do. And that's a serious waste of time, but in the last ten years, the government has been at a very serious distance in 12 years. Our Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs recently laid the foundation of the Panorama Museum, as it was used in public, or as it was used to better describe our Liberation War. The Inflicted War will be revived at this time's Instigative Promotion Center. For the first time in Turkey, the national struggle in three dimensions will be described at this centre. The Ministry, which has been working on this for nearly three years, has only been able to lay groundwork for the National Parks Directorate. Hopefully, we wish and wish that this museum would be brought into existence as soon as possible, and that we would be able to tell our future generations about the events we told only in August, for a whole twelve months, and that is why we're trying to accomplish this project. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, now the will to establish the republic is starting a government in this country on 29 October 1923, and the republic's most important institution is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We write on the walls of both the General Assembly and the group assembly halls. After that, after the polls in the polls, after the polls, the governments are coming, putting their actions in the middle, but we see that Turkey has been working with you in the Grand National Assembly for three years -- I've been working with you in this Parliament -- we can't get a productive result in these research proposals. We spend hours discussing research proposals from a year ago, two years ago today, each study in this great House, where the sovereignty of the nation exemplifies its sovereignty. Of course there will be a motion to investigate, Mr. President, one of the most important works of the House. However, the proposed research proposals, which you've brought in, agreeing between your opponents and groups, agreeing with each other, are adopted in this Parliament, which continues.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0238par0054	Are we always going to see what you bring in here, and no one else will be able to bring in anything but you? Are we always going to talk about what you say in this House? We say that sovereignty belongs to the nation.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0236par0055	No, all of us... sir, we have an agreement, and you spoke only two or three days ago. Now, I, as an Afyonkarahisar, would certainly not object to a study of the areas of the Battle of Salvation, which should be conducted.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0239par0057	That's it, thank God.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0240par0058	He didn't tell me. He never told me.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0236par0059	Yeah. Of course I don't object, these should be investigated. We've already had them investigated, and we've been doing some things. I asked the director's office about it when this speech mission was submitted to my side by the group, and they sent me seven pages of execution reports. Now, there's no point in giving you any trouble with this. They're trying to do everything possible. But the way I see it right now, I'm sharing my poor opinion with your peers, which is not going to help anyone if we say yes to this research proposal.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0241par0061	So this is giving you a headache?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0236par0062	The research proposals that we're going to say yes are the motions that the members of the group have previously agreed to bring to the General Assembly, as well as to the previous applications and regulations.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0242par0063	So you won't be able to say yes if your group vice president doesn't give you the okay? Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't,
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0236par0064	Yeah, that's right. There's nothing to be afraid of.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0243par0065	The ruling party has a headache!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0244par0066	Don't you have any willpower, Halil?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0236par0067	We are a group of people who are trying to serve Turkey, working with love and enthusiasm, and we are working together.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0245par0068	Then you continue to be the deputy leader of the group. You'll be the deputy of Opium!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0236par0069	I'm the deputy of Afyonkarahisar, and right now, we're doing the most work on the land on which the motion is concerned.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0246par0070	Remember, the motions you've brought are not the motions of all groups.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0236par0071	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0247par0072	Your group president is not listening to you, why? He's not taking it seriously?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0236par0073	My Group Vice President knows this, and I've already told him, and I'm speaking for you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0248par0074	Halil, please don't do this!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0236par0075	Dear MPs, it is impossible to say that what has been done so far in this region, which is within the borders of the province of Afyonkarahisar, the blood of our saints and the bones of our martyrs, in which our Battle of Salvation took place. There are problems with our people who live in the settlements of the region now, in the Great Castle, sir, in the barracks, in the Little Witch, in Dumlupınar, in many places, because of the national park. Because of the status area I mentioned earlier, we face a number of blockages from the High Council of Monuments in Eskişehir, both in constructions and in public irrigation facilities that people have done in the settlements. I'm not saying this as a complaint, of course, but in terms of a situation, I'm actually saying that our government is continuing to solve problems in this region with a tremendous amount of love and enthusiasm. There are some things we've solved so far, and we're going to continue to solve the problems of our people who live in this area. But our ultimate goal is to be able to best describe the Battle of Salvation, the Battle of the Great Battle of Commander-in-Chief, to the next generation and to the young people who live in our country right now, and to give that insight to future generations. At this point, our Ministry of Youth and Sports -- in recent years -- is now making large organizations for Afyonkarahisar (Afyonkarahisar), carrying a large number of our young people into the area of Bigtepe, and into the areas where these ceremonies took place. We wish that in the coming days, in the coming years, both our Ministry of National Education and our Ministry of Youth and Sports will bring more and more of our young and students to the facilities and museums that will be held here, so that our Battle of Salvation can be told better, and hopefully, we will have reached the 2023° with a more conscious Turkish generation. With these feelings and thoughts, I respectfully submit that we cannot say yes to this research motion because there is no agreement. I salute you all, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0249par0078	Thank you, Mr. Product.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0250par0079	Your motions don't agree, either.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0249par0080	On the other hand, Afyonkarahisar MP Ahmet Toptaş. Here you go, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0251par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. The nationalist Movement Party (10/399) has a parliamentary research request for the Republican People's Party to make administrative and institutional legal arrangements in order to determine the problems of the Big Attack in our province of Afyonkarahisar, where the Big Attack has been launched, to investigate the past, the present and future, to make it worthy of the importance of our history. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Dear friends, ninety-three years ago, Bigtepe and his surroundings were burning under Greek occupation in the heat of August. Friends call me when they know that I'm going to speak from Afyon just now; Emirdağ, Bolvadin, The Arkler, the harvests of wheat, barley on the side of Dazkırı are below 50 per cent; people are burning, they have debt loans, they can't pay off their enormous interest; they find a solution; we are burning at the foot of the Kostepe. They say. In Sultandağı, the cherry manufacturers -- people find buyers between $1 lira and 130 cents in cherry, not collection money -- boycotted them for two days, but had to sell them helplessly. When I started at the Bigtepe, I felt the need to emphasize once again the problems of the people at the foot of the Bigtepe, and thank you for listening to this. Let's talk about Bigtepe. Dear friends, Bigtepe is the turning point in the history of Turkey. It is the beginning of the war that led us to our existence after the decision of the absence of existence was made and our absence of existence was decided. I support the investigation of Kobytepe, or this way, because of my faith in the rehabilitation of Koppatepe, the development of the work there, the development of it as a promotional center, where people can learn many things. Bigtepe is more than just Afyon. Dear friends, there are seven martyrdoms in the Bigtepe. You've heard of Captain Akh Bey Martyrship, Air Martyrship, Giresunian Martyrship, Memorial Martyrship, Şuhut Martyrship, Yıldırım Kemal Martyrship, Miralay Reşat Çitiltepe Martyrship, so you may have heard of them, but you don't know many of them because many people in Turkey don't know, thousands don't know, millions don't know, because you haven't had such an effort. Our national Liberation War is the first war against imperialism in the world, and it is a war led by the oppressed nations, led by Mustafa Kemal. And after this war, those nations went to war to protect their national rights and their independence. Dear friends, a lot needs to be done for Bigtepe. My dear friend told me about the projects on the Bigtepe. It's true that a museum of sovereignty should be built, but how much does it tell you about Bigtepe? He talked about the sites, about the watering ducts of the people there, about their homes... they're true, there are easy ways to solve them; you have a majority of them, you make the legal arrangements you want, and even if these areas are too much, you cancel the martyrdoms, national parks, and you solve them at the root! See, what is being done in the Bigtepe? In 2008, with the initiative and support of our Mayor Shuhut Ekrem Özsoy, a march was held called the Zafer March, which was called the Zafer March, in order to start the Battle of Kobtepe, which was based on Ismet Pasha's Shuhut. This march has become traditional today. Thousands of people from Turkey, thousands of young people, have a lot of information about what happened in Koppe, about the meaning of the Bigtepe. It is very important to know the Bigtepe, for those who do not know their historical struggles and heroes cannot have independence. The simplest example of this is in the events surrounding us. The Bigtepe is crucial to its historical, culture, and gains, but the areas of the Battle of Kocatepe are unregulated, in accordance with its importance. Transport, rest, information places are not built, they must be done. Kocatepe is the key to national salvation, a nation's battle for existence. A Husket museum of this importance should be built. Writers, poets, artists should be supported. The private company, which runs the opium station, built a panorama in Afyon. The Panorama in the bus station is a panorama that shows the Battle of Salvation, but, dear friends, for this panorama, we had to pay a foreign husband and wife royalties. Where are our artists, where are our writers, where are our painters? So Bigtepe isn't a big deal to us. Dear friends, nations who don't know their history are doomed to perish. Then it's time to take care of our history and our historical heroes. Anzacs come from thousands of miles away to Çanakkale, and they perform the ritual, but we consider it a waste of time to go within 10 kilometers of the Afyon Ark road and visit Miralay Reşat Çıtiltepe's tomb. Each of us went on vacation to Antalya, Marmaris, Bodrum, İzmir, and which one of us thought of visiting Miralay Reşat Çıtiltepe's grave, bowing before his memory, or praying? No one's ever thought of that. Now, if you don't think about your national heroes, if you don't care about your national liberation wars, you'll be in the Middle East situation in the Arabian Peninsula today; you won't understand what happened in Gaza, you won't understand the war against imperialism. I'll tell you a little example, a soldier who joined the National Liberation War as a Greek from Urla, Dido Sotiriyu: The soldier is actually a socialist soldier, but joined by the Greek army, was captured by the Turkish army, joined by the Greeks again and fought in Koppe. A bomb dropped in front of him, a grenade. He's taking the grenade, he's looking, he's looking at a French brand; he's looking at a hand grenade in his pocket, a French brand, he says: "Peace be on Anatolia, damn it!" Here's Israel, here's the Middle East, if you don't understand the games of imperialism, you'll never understand the National Liberation War. If you don't understand what war is against imperialism, you'll never understand Bigtepe. My dear friend told you about the things that were done to him, but you must have noticed that he was passing through Afyon, and the arrow pointing to the University of Kobytepe was written as a university. You've turned Bigtepe into a college, my dear friend. Koppe University is a university named after Koppe. Have you ever seen a university called University? If you convert the Bigtepe, you will lose the meaning of the Bigtepe. Dear friends, when we tell you about Mustafa Kemal, Ismet Pasha, some of you throw away the dead lovers. If we forget our heroes, if we can't pass on our heroes to the next generation, if we can't tell the next generation, if we don't raise new heroes, not new dead lovers, but grow new eaters. We boast of our heroes, but the building that you planted in Erzurum for 100 trillion -- not eight years ago -- was destroyed by your eaters. You will take care of your heroes. You will know the values of the National Liberation War, you will value the heroes of the National Liberation War, you will value the places of the National Liberation War. You will make the Bigtepe a center of attraction, and it will be an important contribution to the tourism of Afyon. You will support those who do research on the Bigtepe, and you will support the painters about the Bigtepe, and you will support the painters. Then we won't have to pay royalties for the paintings related to Bigtepe. So we didn't care about Bigtepe until now. We built the University of Kocatepe at the University of Kocatepe to prevent people from even reading his name on the road to Afyon.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0252par0099	Afyonkarahisar.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0251par0100	Dear friends, history is a difficult subject. If you don't understand, tomorrow in Turkey, like ISIS, which you support in the Middle East, you're going to cause trouble, you're going to divide Turkey with the game of imperialism, you're going to turn Turkish people against each other, you're going to camp, and then you're going to look for new saviors. Please don't let this country seek new saviors. It's important, it's very important, it's very valuable, it's important, it's important, it's important, it's important, it's important, it's important to mention your name. That's why we support this motion from the heart. And thank you for the motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0253par0103	Thank you, Mr. Topstone. Against you, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0254par0107	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the group's proposal from the National Movement Party. I hereby salute the General Assembly. There are interesting negotiations going on here. 22 of our deputies signed this group proposal. Kemalettin Yilmaz, MP of Afyonkarahisar in the first place. Kemalettin Bey wants to investigate Afyon Province and the Kopepepe Way, which is in our province of Afyonkarahisar, to determine the problems of the Great Attack that began, to investigate the past, present, future, and make it worthy of the importance of our history. It's a reasonable, good suggestion, but it doesn't say anything about Afyon (Afyon) in a speech he made for ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0255par0110	You figure it out!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0254par0111	You're going to be MP of Afyonkarahisar, you're going to use the name Afyonkarahisar, you're going to be in the motion, but you're not going to say it here in the General Assembly. I thank Mr. Ahmet -- there are parts of them that I disagree with, but -- he told me about Afyon.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0256par0113	Split, shred, you're using a management tactic.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0257par0114	You're a Turkish MP.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0254par0115	There is a Halil Product from Allah, and the Afyon MP tells how to solve the problems of Afyon (Afyon) and how to solve the issues of the research proposal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, by the way, Mr. Minister Veysel Eroglu and Dear Congressman Sait Akba are also expressing the problems of Afyon.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0257par0118	He's not going to talk about problems, he's going to solve them, he's going to solve them.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0258par0119	He solves it, he solves it!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0254par0120	With his investments in the past decade, opium has become a shining star of the Aegean Region, and will move further. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, Mr. President, I'd like to give you some information about the Afyon, if you'd like. Afyon was named after Bey Sahib Bey of Anatolia, who was called Karahisar in the late Ottoman era, and one of the two provinces of Ottoman lands, whose name was Karahisar, is Şarki, the current Giresun Şibinkarahisar; and the other is the province of Afyon. The province of Afyon is now a shining star with 18 districts, 388 villages, 777,000 populations and 14.237 square miles [14,237 square kilometers] and a candidate for modern city today.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0259par0123	The number's wrong.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0260par0124	You're a Turkish MP, Ramadan.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0254par0125	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs; August 26, 1922 is really important, and I agree with what Ahmet Bey said. Just as 1071 Malazgirt was important in the Turkish entry into Anatolia -- opening the door -- was in 1176 in our history, Miryokefalon. The war in the Isparta Yalvaç region is now a war in which Anatolia has entered the Turkish sovereignty and has been confirmed as the Turkish motherland. I'd like to say this for 1176 and here we are, 1915 Çanakkale. In Çanakkale Harýl, they now understand that foreigners are the motherland of the Turks. Again, the twenty-two days and twenty-two nights of the bloody war in 1921, and the Battle of Sakarya Square, since there were Turks in Asia Minor, it has been confirmed again how important it is. On 9 September 1922, this process began when the enemy fell into the sea in İzmir, where it was a war in Afyon, but it was a great battle where the people of Asia Minor were martyred. I'm thinking that's a big age. For this reason, it is also important to us, both Sakarya and Dumlupınar, as the Geakkale War of Commander-in-Chief was declared a national park, where memories were made. In that sense, I'd like to thank our friend who brought in the motion, even though he didn't mention it here. So here, in terms of reminiscing the memories of this war, and in the light of the new generation to the future, it was declared a national open parking space, and its investments there were also invested in the streets of Çanakkale, and the technical information at this point was given by our brother Halil Products. And I'd like to thank him. Mr. President, I'd like to make a special note of a technicality regarding this war. While this war is taking place, we have 186,000 soldiers -- 98,670 Τi infantry, 5,282.5 machine guns, 830 heavy machine guns, 323 cannons, 208 motor vehicles. The Greek side has 195 thousand soldiers -- 1,300 cavalry, 3,150 machine guns, 1,002 heavy machine guns, 344 cannons, 50 planes, 3,818 motor vehicles. So other than the number of cavalry soldiers, they really have a powerful army on paper from us, but as a result, the people of Anatolia, the children of Anatolia -- I ask God for mercy again -- have finally fought a great war. We have 2,318 martyrs, 9.360 wounded, 13.476 casualties in total, although there were an attack; 18,250 dead Greeks, 16,000 wounded, 35,000 prisoners, 3,720 missing, 73,000 in total. For what it's worth, my dear friends, the attacker in the battle of the offensive will suffer a lot of casualties. However, compared with the casualties, there have been five times as many Greek casualties. In fact, the children of Asia Minor have made a date there. We agree, of course, with the group proposal for this historic revival, but -- you know -- we're negotiating bag law 639 rows. That's a long way to go. Hopefully, by Friday, we'll all -- the congressmen of the opposition will be there to support -- I think we'll give our Soma martyrs a gift before the holidays. In these feelings, he declares that I am speaking on a group proposal, yet I offer the group's recommendation to the General Assembly's discretion, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0261par0131	Thank you, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0262par0132	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0261par0133	Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0262par0134	By twisting what I said, the speaker tried to trivialize the motion that I had made, saying that I had said nothing about Afyon, that I had said nothing about the Bigtepe, and that I had spoken nothing of it; that he had used my name. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0261par0135	Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0262par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm so happy, so proud, so happy, that I've brought Kocappe to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I pay my respects to everyone who contributes. However, some infrastructures must be made in Kobytepe, in the matter of the knowledge, recognition, life, life, and transfer to future generations, and the panoramic museum needs to be built. The people who came in there...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0263par0141	You didn't talk, but...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0262par0142	It's here, Mr. Ramadan, if you didn't listen, if you didn't get a chance to talk, I don't know, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0263par0143	Get the records, see if you can.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0262par0144	This place needs a panoramic museum. It is our wish that the infrastructure that people who come here can provide for their human needs should be done without disrupting the environment or historical tissue. Under the name of the historic and panoramic museum, unfortunately, it has been no more than a museum of publicity. It's a serious flaw. In addition to this, I condemn your approach to us in the same way that I did not mention Afyon (Afyon) members of the two Afyon MPs, other than myself, and that I did not mention the Afyon (Afyon). When it comes to opium, the rest of us are lawmakers. And from here, I pay my respects to all my fellow congressmans. I repeat, Kobytepe is the seal of the history of the Republic of Turkey; it is the due title of the history of the Republic of Turkey; I did, not by reason of reason, I did, it was. I demand that you support our proposal in order that everyone contribute under the light of science, not by reason of reason, but by means of what should be done to the developing world, the developing Turkey. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0264par0147	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0265par0148	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0264par0149	Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0265par0150	He teased me, saying, "I hate you."
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0266par0151	I don't think there's any Opium MP, but there's no AKP. They bring out Ramadan, Edirne, and Afyon.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0267par0152	Ramadan, are you from Opium?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0268par0153	Mr. President of Kırkkale, not the Afyon MP.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0269par0154	What do you have to do with opium Ramadan, Afyon MP friends here?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0270par0155	How? He blamed you for saying that he did not mention it, and you want to make it known to him that you did not say so?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0271par0156	That's what I'm going to explain.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0270par0157	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0272par0159	We'll look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0273par0160	Okay, it's on the books, Ramadan.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0274par0161	Well, isn't there an Afyon MP who can answer us?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0275par0163	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we'd be happy to have an Afyon problem on the agenda here. I thanked our dear friend, but I also asked him to tell us something about Afyon. Indeed, my taunt also benefited, and Mr. Kemalettin came, and told me of Afyon. And I want to thank you again for bringing it to him. What I want to say in particular is that Sakarya, and Çanakkale, is Miryokefalon, that's Bigtepe. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0276par0167	Thank you, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0277par0168	Ramadan, one day you didn't talk about the problems of Kırıkkale!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0278par0169	How long did our Ramadan MP stay in Afyon, how well does he know Afyon? He must have seen opium coming and going. I give you my compliments.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0279par0171	Okay, fine. I'd like to submit the National Movement Group's proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Tuesday (22/7/2014), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. It has been suggested that the meeting of the main parliamentary inquiry motion, given by Ilhan Demiröz and 21 friends (10/1000), was held by the General Assembly's 22/7/2014 Tuesday (Today) jointly to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the problems caused by the mines, marble and sand furnaces, which are part of the National Assembly's · Global Global Voices and Parliamentary Review. In favor of the proposal, Bursa MP Ilhan Demiröz. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0280par0189	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Council's motion to investigate the problems caused by stones, minerals, marbles and sandpots and the problems that could have arisen in the years to come in order to be identified today and take the necessary precautions. I salute you and our fellow citizens, who are watching us on their screens, with respect and love. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I would like to begin by condemning the massacres of Israel in Gaza for days and days. Dear friends, we know that it is necessary to operate quarryes, mines, marbles, and sand stoves, but what we do know is that they have prepared the basis for major environmental catastrophes, which are difficult to repair to our country's geography, history, social life, and efficient farmland. The required examination is given CED reports without evaluation, without investigation of the damage to nature and its water supply, without licenses being issued and audited. These businesses cause great pain to our country's nature, its nature, and our people's people, in Manisa Soma, in Bursa Mustafakemalpaşa, in Buk., in Amasya, in the Zonguldak Kozlu pits. These businesses that destroy the green areas are disrupting the vegetation because of the defibrillation -- the surface of the topographic structure. Because of the use of dynamite, waterbeds change, water collection basins damage, causing water pollution. On 28 June 1998 in Aarhus, Denmark, the European Union and 43 countries signed the Convention on Access to Information on Environmental Matters, Public Access to the Environmental Decision Process and Applying to the Judiciary on 30 October 2001. One of the things that needs to be expressed here is that ratification of this contract is the conditions Turkey must meet on its way to membership in the European Union. However, I would like to make it very clear in the progress reports that Turkey still does not sign this contract. Dear friends, valued lawmakers, the Order of the Stonefires has been published during the Ottoman Empire, and it has been stated that the benefit for a village or a village or several villages depends only on the condition that the village and its inhabitants do not be harmed for the opening of the stove and running of the site. Unlike the arrangements for the quarry that was removed a century ago, unfortunately, the village today depends, not on environmental impacts, but on the amount of money that people, supporters, will make. Our electoral district is an agricultural centre that feeds many provinces in the region of Marmara, Aegean and Central Anatolia, including metropoliss such as İstanbul, Ankara. However, I would also like to say that in our district, which is very important in agricultural terms, we need to protect the growing agricultural areas. The mountains and hills of our scholarship are completely divided under the warrants for the search for mines from Ankara. For years, citizens no longer enter bush, heath, woodland, where farmers look like eyes. Because they're surrounded by the documents they have, taking into account the CED report on these areas for a period of time. Dear lawmakers, you can see the quarry, the mines, the marble furnaces, with a razor to the face on the slopes of Uludağ as you travel from Izmir, Istanbul or Ankara. In addition, you can also encounter stone furnaces and rock facilities on the Istanbul-Orhangazi-Gemlik-Izmir highway. If you encounter another subject, I would also like to go online and point out that there are quarryes for sale in Burma, and that it is 22 kilometers [22 km] from the city centre and 4 km from the fast train. Dear lawmakers, we have Lotus Tea, it has no owner, it's polluted, it's dirty. Despite the court's ruling, the mines continue to work in Orhaneli Başköy and Mustafakemalpaşa Ayatbaba and Leek villages. The İnegöl Gunççişlı Project HES is dehydrated by the village of Şaşiye, Mezit, Osmaniye, Eskikarcakaya, Rustiye, Yeniköy, İhcik, Kınuk, Özlüce, and the village with Bullets. Despite the negative report from the Keles Koz tree Valley, Durak, Harmandemirist, Dolphins, Davids, Seas, Boweren, Deserting, the thermal plant still persists. I would also like to point out that the new city of Karacaali and the districts of Turkey are being dispossessed and the auto testing center is being set up. Dear lawmakers, the ones who make the green Bursal gray, the ones who surround our Bursal with the TOKI freaks, are now allowed to build thermal power plants and cement factories in the center of the city. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism provides the prerequisites for the construction of the cement plant in the Nulufer Inegazi, the thermal plant in Demirtaş. We can replicate the negative examples of this Ministry's CED report. Turkey's rising tourist value, I'd like to say, has been given CED approval in Cesme, Urla, Karaburun, Seferihisar and Alaçatı. Another CED approval has been granted, and Artvin Cerattepe has been given a CED report for the gold mine. The Artvinites are on their feet, from Deretown, from Haypetesi, from Korzullu, from Oruç, from Melo, from Dilink, from Business, from Sinkot, from Hezor, from Gejishane, from Caucasor in a human chain. It means I'm with them for Cerattepe, celebrating Artvin for his honorable resistance, giving them all my love and respect from here. Dear friends, if you ask me, what is going on in our General Assembly? Our farmers are in trouble. Here we will give them the configuration of the agriculture bank and the deletion of interest in agricultural loan co-ops, the restructuring of electricity debt to watering troops and watering co-ops, the construction of electricity debt to TEDAS, will surely, and will certainly reassure them at certain points. Because this year, in 2014, aside from the policies that the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has always done at the cost of destroying agriculture, I also want to say that our farmers are in a very difficult situation with rain, hail, flood. In the Plan and Budget Commission, I hope that my fellow lawmakers from the ruling party, who rejected our proposals to address the problems of our farmers, will support our motions in the same way this time, as well as support the Parliament's research proposal, which we have given to determine the problems caused by stone, or minerals, or marbles, and sand furnaces, and the problems that may arise in the years to come, I respectfully and respectfully salute you all. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0281par0207	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Against him, Mr. President Mustafa Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0282par0211	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the CHP group proposal. I salute your high council. Tomorrow, I hope it's the Night of Kadir; first, I wish you the Night of Kadir. I call upon God to bring peace and peace to all the people of the world to all the Muslims. The environment and water supply, the plains and farmland are our common values. Today these values are on the agenda of the whole world, and they will continue to happen. Our goal is to leave a clean and habitable environment and modern cities for future generations. This is one of the main topics of our 2023 goals as an EC PARTY. I agree with your ideas about environmental sensitivity and the protection of water sources in the motion, but there are points I disagree with, such as measures and controls taken. The important thing is that we all maintain these values together, conduct and oversee the practices. To do that, we have done the work that is needed to protect our plains and create planned, healthy cities, as the AK PARTI government and as the municipalities, and we will continue to do so. Our province is a province that is truly the cradle of history and civilization. It is a city of agriculture and food, as is the city of industry, trade and tourism. The fine fruits and vegetables on our Plains of Bursa cannot be satisfied. And yet again, with its geographical beauty, we have a city worth living and seeing. So in our time of power, our governments and municipalities have uncovered the forgotten, destroyed, destroyed works of history and culture of this city. The scholarship has become a historical city today. The CHP group proposal requires the protection of the diminishing agricultural areas. It is said. I agree with that. Before our time, however, illegal structures, unplanned urbanizations, were allowed to be sold on land that was sold in parts, parts, and sales. We all know that the migration was a point where both local rulers and general rulers followed, and they were unable to find a solution to the scholarship. What did we do? We are saving it, and we are trying to restore it to its former green state, to reveal its geographical beauty by paying great prices. When we were about to lose that quality that you mentioned, we came to the rescue of our other cities, like our other cities. With the laws we've passed and the work our municipalities have done, most of the work we've been able to prevent these illegal constructions. Let's not run a minen in a country like Turkey that's dependent on energy and needs energy diversity. There's no logic. Things like safety at work, environmental sensitivity, the preservation of water resources are important and sensitive to us and to you. Natural resources are known for their importance in human and social life. Ninety-nine percent of the tools and materials that make life functional are provided from natural resources, especially mines, so there is a close relationship between the prosperity and development of societies and mining activities. Mining activities are indispensable for a modern life. In the present century, mining activities, such as no economic activity, are not possible by ignoring the environmental factor. There's no denying the environmental impact of mining. In the mining sector, however, the use of environmentally friendly technologies and methods, mining processes, or afterwards taking measures to protect and restore the environment, will contribute in general to the development of the sector. Instead of finding solutions to problems, the work that prevents certain production should not be ignored as harming our province, our country. Any mining business, regardless of the method of mining, is being used, has been severely disrupting the landscape, causing the destruction of the environment. One of the most obvious examples of environmental pollution caused by mining activity is the environmental damage done by open mining businesses. As part of mining activities, the open business method leads to air, noise, and water pollution. There are major tasks for the industry in this regard. Of course, the control mechanism has to work very well. In addition, our city of Bursa is very rich in minefields. Especially Orhaneli and Keles are our richest counties in the province of Bursa. Therefore, we must make sure that we benefit from the riches that exist. We need to aim and do better, just as modern work is being done in the world. The diversity of minerals has brought many oreifications. Studies have revealed important industrial raw materials, metallic mineral deposits and resources in our province. When we look at mining activities in our province of Bursa, there are a total of 566 licenses, including 138 searches and 428 businesses. The license to operate has been given at 312 times, without a permit to operate at 116. There are 146 marbles, 76 calculuss, 33 chromiums, six coals and five magnetic chromium operating licenses within the province of Bursa. In order to meet the need for raw materials for public institutions, 79 licenses have been issued to produce raw materials. When we look at new applications, there are 109 applications in 2012 and 90 in 2013. In our province, the most produced mine is calculus and chrome. Looking at the amount of production of these, 18 million 379 thousand tons of calculus, then 2 million 379 thousand tons of chrome, and then 1 million 106 thousand tons of marble. A study of mining activities and environmental problems in the province of Bursa, on 9 May 2012, was organised in the district of Bursa, on 9 May 2012, in order to discuss the environment's relations and environmental policies with the mining sector and to share the production of scientific and technical information in the sector by researchers, experts and all partners -- in accordance with the content of this proposal you have made. Five subgroups were formed in this workshop. They are: the mine legislation working group, the CED legislation working group, environmental impacts (water, air, soil, noise), the mining group in Bursa, the study group for good mining practices. Therefore, the moderator support and management of the working groups have been discussed with the issues, problems and solution proposals, the discussion and conclusion of the results of the reports, and the study statement has been made and presented to the public. This result declaration guides both our institutions and institutions, and studies are conducted accordingly. After the end of January's operation, I think it's important to reclaim the forest as well as the farmland. While there are very good examples of this in the developed countries, our country should be treated with more sensitivity and proper audits. We approach water and water resources as much as we care about the environment. You can drink freely from the scholarship fountains. With the work of the city and our government, Bursa is indeed one of our rare provinces in this regard. Again, our villages had chronic water problems. During the time of our governments, we solved the drinking water problem of our villages, as in all of Turkey, with SOCS and BELDES projects. And then we were instantly sensitive to the problems that had arisen, and we interfered. We've made the necessary attempts at solving problems, just like the water problem in Orhaneli Başköy, mentioned in your motion. So we went to the village myself, and went down to the marble furnace, and we went to the water supply, and we did the proper inspections, and we took the samples. We then contributed to our Deputy Prime Minister's position, as a matter of fact, by sending it to the DSI General Directorate, the General Directorate of Mines, the State Special Administration and the Bursa County Health Directorate, to the point of building a solution, or rather, we solved the problem. As a result of these reports and correspondence, a commission by the State Department of Environment and Urbanism and the DSI was created by the Governorate of Bursa on 18/4/2013, and it was tasked to conduct inspections in all January areas in the district of Bursa, particularly in the district of Başköy and in the vicinity of DSI. The requested commission was created with date 14/5/2013 and governorship number 273314, and the following audits will be carried out by this commission. Our DSI General Directorate also continues its work by this commission, and with its contribution to information, in accordance with the laws of the marble pits and the CED reports. I, myself, have stated in this report here. So we said that this one mine could have an effect on the water supply, so it would cause the water to get dirty, physically contaminated, that it needed to be repaired. After that, the DSI made a decision, with the Council of Ministers' decision to extend and protect the area. Thus, we are sensitive to water resources to the fullest. Drinking clean water, living well, living in a habitable environment is the will of all our peoples. OUR AK PARTY has shown this in its work. From now on, I say we continue the same work, our environmental sensitivity, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0283par0233	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. In his favor, Idris Baluken, the Bingol MP. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0284par0237	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to begin immediately by saying that we have joined the motion to form a commission to determine the necessary measures by investigating the problems caused by the Republican People's Party, the stone, the mine, the marble and the sand pits that operate in the province of Bursa. Before I begin my speech, I salute you all. When we look at the content of the proposal, we need to make it clear that there are no conditions for saying no. Of course, this Assembly needs to investigate the growing decline of agricultural areas in the city of Bursa, bringing about ecological destruction, human life-threatening sand pits and mines without reports of CEDs. To this end, the establishment of a research commission is important: Your policies that prioritize more capital and we can face serious environmental disasters that threaten human health and nature everywhere, unfortunately. Perhaps if a commission is set up on the scholarship, it will allow us to offer a biopsy in terms of exposing these environmental disasters for Turkey; through that biopsy, a solution proposal for all Turkey through that piece. So, we think this motion is right, we want to say that we're going to vote positive for the motion from here on out. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in fact, I would like to address a few issues here on the basis of this motion. In particular, we all suffered a terrible car accident on the way to Diyarbakır-Bingöl last night, a great pain to all of our hearts, unfortunately, has fallen. The explosion of an LPG tanker on the way to Diyarbakır-Bingöl has resulted in the fire of two passing passenger buses and one Doblo vehicle. So far, one of our citizens has lost their lives, and 64 of our citizens have been injured in various places, 14 of which are very heavy, and are currently under treatment in different hospitals. I pray for the mercy of God, and for the healing of the wounded, and for the loss of their lives, that there should not be any increase. I'd like to express that the painting in particular is a major disaster. So we're dealing with a disaster so massive that the number of injuries -- many of them with more than 50 per cent burns on their bodies -- has occurred in an event that is above the capacity of the burn unit in Turkey. Since last night, ambulances, planes, and helicopters have been trying to provide the necessary services, especially health workers, in the form of full mobilization. Right now, we have 21 injured at Diyarbakır Education and Research Hospital awaiting transfer to the burn units of other hospitals. For 21 patients, and for the wounded, we interviewed the Ministry of Health officials, who said that the necessary preparations were being made and that in a few hours these wounded would be transferred to other hospitals. We hope that these wounded will be transported to the centers where they will be able to find the necessary treatments quickly. Here, of course, there's a crisis table in Diyarbakir district starting at midnight. This crisis table is trying to carry out a very coordinated study, and the governor of Diyarbakır shares information that has come to the crisis table starting at midnight. We hope that with all this work, there will be no more casualties, and our wounded will be healthy as soon as possible. As for traffic accidents, we hope that the necessary measures and measures will be taken, and the incidents that hurt us at this level will never come back to haunt us. Of course, I'd like to stress a few things here. So when we make a motion as opposition, or we talk about some things from here, let's just wear power down, and we don't have an approach to making political profit on certain issues. Since yesterday, we've been constantly informing the Council's agenda on the Governor of Urbana, so we have no problem with the people here, I don't know the governor of Urbana personally, nor do I know the governor of Diyarbakır personally, but we're all going to talk about the difference between the two mentalitys and the two approaches here, in the interest of the country, so let's get what's right for the good of the people. It's imperative that we do so. Look, I'm sorry to say that every time we've passed on information about the events that took place in Urbana, the ruling party MPs have taken a defensive position. We said, or now we say, that the job of the public officials there is to ensure the safety of citizens' lives and property. There has been no good examination for the safety of a person for three days, and it is necessary to investigate an intervention with a heavy number of injured people, including one journalist. Again, if there is a violence against the MPs, the administrative and judicial procedures must be carried out concerning those responsible, especially the governor here. That's exactly what we said about the safety of the goods. Look, I'll show you pictures of what government officials do when a citizen needs to protect property security from the events that took place within three days of the day. We have a civilian vehicle here, where government officials in charge of the safety of this vehicle are attacking the vehicle, dear friends. Look, there's been a lot of interference here, and there's about 15 of them that have been flattened. What kind of hatred is that, friends, look, we've been through people, lawmakers, journalists, an incredible amount of interference on the vehicle that has embarrassed all of us. Look here, these security forces have managed to overthrow the vehicle, and this vehicle belongs to a citizen, and as I said, it was destroyed in this way, about 15 ▪. It's completely reversed here, and here are some signs that almost celebrate the fact that the security forces destroyed the vehicle and turned it upside down. Look, here's a tent that was set on fire, including our deputies and the people. When we bring these paintings here, you get up here and unfortunately fall into position to defend these paintings. Don't do that, guys. Now, I would like to remind you from here that it is your government's duty to investigate the security forces that damaged the citizen's vehicle and all the officials who gave them this order in the first place. When we said these things yesterday, when we said that these paintings were police terrorism or security forces at work, the Deputy Director of the AK PARTI led the argument in a different direction, claiming that we called all the cops and soldiers ▪ Terrorists. Never, we have no hostility towards all police and soldiers, nor do we call them all terrorists. And yesterday, I, Ali Ismail (I), Ethemi (Ethemi), Medeni Yıldırım, Berkin (Israel) and Uður Kurt (Israel), had stated that there was a sense of terror that carried out the execution without a trial, and that the government should go on to this terror. Anyone who's done it wrong is obliged to express it and conduct processes related to it. Such immunity, immunity to certain officials, a prophecy, we cannot correct the wrongs in this country. As a matter of fact, the practice of your government is contrary to what is expressed here. Yesterday, when you were using these statements, at midnight, you conducted investigations and operations against the police you claim to have been operating parallelly within the state, and by this time, I think over 60 million police officers have been taken into custody because they've been wronged, so if you're being investigated, there's something wrong there, too. What you need to show here is that if there's anything wrong, I think you have a responsibility to explain to the public in all aspects of this, to show the public that you're going all the way through this, and to show that the operation is actually a parallel state struggle, not a presidential election material. I just hope that whoever did the wrong thing after that, whoever did the wrong thing... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish you wouldn't take defensive positions with such classic state-of-the-art reflexes. And while I'm finishing my speech, I want to remind the motion that we're going to vote positive. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0285par0259	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Against you, Denizli MP Mehmet Yüksel. Here you go, Mr. Yüksel.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0286par0263	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's motion. I hereby salute your high council. Here's the Republican People's Party Fellowship, Dear Brother, about this motion of research that our brother Ilhan Demiröz made in 2012... we sign under all that is written here, there's no problem with that, there's no problem with that, there's no problem with that, while the mines are being mined on one side, there's an important suggestion that it should be done by protecting agriculture, environment, nature. However, my brother Mustafa Ozturk Bey, from the AK PARTY, from our party, also made good statements on how to do this. As a result of this motion, hopefully, I, as a member of parliament, as your brother is coming in the coming days... at this time -- you know -- there's holiday work, on the one hand -- and on the other hand, we've been calling it a public law law, actually, since 4 June, with our friends in the Plan Budget, since the subcommittee, we've had all of our friends, the ruling-migration, all of our fellow members of the public...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0287par0266	What do you think this law is called?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0286par0267	Live the bag. ...day and night, even when Ramadan enters, we continue our work on this law together, and today all of our parties have valuable proposals from each other. Each of these proposals has a value, of course, but, of course, when we look at it from our ruling front, we perceive these motions as proposals for the extension. But that doesn't mean the perception motions are wrong or true. Of course, both the National Movement Party and the People's Democratic Party of Peoples and the Republican People's Party have good issues. Here, again, with the contributions of our fellow opposition party members, we have had serious struggles over the rights of the 301 lives lost in Soma (May 13th), as well as the rights of our wounded brothers and sisters. With these provisions, I hope we can provide some comfort to them and their surroundings. Other than that, again, in our society, our citizens with SEC bonus debt, BUG-KUR bonus debt, now have a high expectations, they have restructuring their debt. Here is a settlement, which reaches 36 months when we calculate from two months to 36 months, with the actual amount of the premium debt, and the repayment of interest prepared by ÜFE-TÜFE, and the ease to pay, 6, 9, 12, 18 instalments. There's no charges on the insurance premiums, we're leaving the ticket, but we're not losing their rights there, at least because we've got a 5% discount on our down payment citizens. But, on the subject of taxes, our citizens say that the tax-paying, tax-paying citizens are being collected together with the actual tax fine and the delay increase, according to the TFE. And there's also a down payment on this one. Other than that, there are important substances related to the restructuring of our rooms, our taxpayers, our members' debts to the rooms, and the debt to the upper board of our rooms, as well as to the debt of the tradesmen's troops in the same way. Other than that, there were also important demands from our citizens regarding the vehicle examination. The citizens, who have not had the inspections done in time again, will also renew these vehicle examinations by paying the amount of 5 per cent of inflation per month, provided that this year, 2014, will be examined by the end of December. They'll be free of their debts. Other than that, the pensions of the BUG-KUR residents, whose pensions have been cancelled due to invalidation, are being reconnected again in the registers of trades and agricultural rooms. Again, it is coming to the attention of the removal of debts that are essentially less than 100 TL of our closed-down employers. Other than that, there is also a new provision in our society for the insurance and security of our citizens who work in household services, which are called house services. There are a few chapters here, less than ten days, more like ten days. That is, right now, our citizens, who are already working as servants in their homes, who employ assistants, must make sure that they have insurance and that they are responsible for it, so they need to make a declaration. And at the point where they're giving notices, there's a serious amount of paperwork, treatment, extra processing. Many hosts, employers, unfortunately, are not insured for this reason. With the practice done here, with the innovation brought in, we make it easy. Our citizens, who employ a servant, will make a statement on the duration of which they will co-sign the declaration of the institution, along with the person he is working with, on one occasion. He'll continue to be insured by depositing his money into his account every month, by depositing his bonus. The employer, the host, will no longer be able to give separate declarations each month, or to enter the Internet every month. Thus, this statement, given once, will be valid, but when a second statement is made during the change, it will be valid, and the first statement will be valid unless given. Other than that, most of us, who work less than ten days, who come to our homes once a week to serve, and our brothers and sisters who come to clean, if they don't work more than ten days a month, they have the right to pay their own insurance, if they don't work more than ten days a month, they have the right to pay their own insurance. So far, in their business accidents, there has been no non-responsibility bonus or substance that protects themselves from any accidents that have occurred to them. Here is a coupon system, provided that the owners pay a premium for a 2-percent business accident when our brothers and sisters, who work under ten days, make their own voluntary insurance. I'm guessing the application will begin in January 2015. The agency's doing their work on it. And that's gonna be a lot easier. The number of coupons will be given to our brothers on the day and time that they work, according to minimum wage, if they come once a week, twice a week, or several days a week, if they come under him on the moon. While these coupons are being received, the banks will be paid by the employer by 2% for the business accident, while the remaining bonuses will be paid by our citizen, our brother, our worker. There's a lot of other substances like this and this, I'd imagine, 128. At this time, if today is a blessing, we will continue negotiations as of Article 51 when we begin the third chapter. It's our biggest wish to finish this by the holidays, but, of course, I'm looking at the lines of opposition, when the heads are like this, we have no hope. I guess we'll come back after the holidays and continue our work. I'm going to vote against this motion by the Republican People's Party Group with these thoughts and feelings, and I wish you all a good evening.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0288par0280	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. And now the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall make to read, and then I shall put it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting Tuesday (22/7/2014), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's 641, 240, 604 and 494 draft proposals and proposals in the "Object of Laws and Other Affairs From Commissions" section, were to be taken into the 5th, 6, 7 and 8th place, and the order of other tasks was to be considered according to this order. Wednesdays 23rd and 24th July 2014 and Thursdays 12pm. Gathering at 00; Tuesdays 5, 6 and 7 August 2014, Wednesdays and Thursdays, 13 o'clock. Gathering at 00; Other than working weekdays, July 25th and 4th and 8th August 2014 Mondays and Fridays at 14pm. Meeting at 00 and discussing the work involved in these mergers in "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions"; On Tuesday (August 5th and 12th 2014) the talks on verbal questions and other audit issues are not discussed, and the talks on the agenda are on "The Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions"; On Wednesday (August 6th and 13th 2014) the unspoken questions were not discussed; Until the meeting of Tuesday (July 22, 2014), July 22, 2014, to the completion of the talks on the work of the Law Charter No. 604; It's 20 o'clock on Wednesday, July 23, 2014. Until 00; Until the meeting of Thursday (July 24, 2014) was completed by the Law Bill of Numbers 605; Until the meeting of Friday (July 25, 2014) was completed by the 547th Bill of Laws; Until Monday, August 4, 2014, when the talks were completed until the 599th Bill of Law were merged; Until the meeting of Tuesday (August 5th, 2014), until the meeting of the 565th Amendment, when the negotiations were completed; Until the meeting of Wednesday (August 6, 2014) of the 464th legislature, until the meeting of the talks of the Legislature, Until Thursday, August 7, 2014, when the talks were completed until the Law Bill Number 10 in the merger; Until Friday, August 8, 2014, when the talks were completed until the 335th Bill of Law were merged; It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. At 00 a.m., if the daily schedules are incomplete, the daily schedules will be completed; 12th, 13th and 14th August 2014, Wednesday and Thursday's mergers include 2400 (24). Working between 00 hours; It's recommended. In favour of the proposal, İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0289par0314	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my opinion in favor of our group's proposal. On this occasion, I salute your high council. My dear friends, our group proposal suggests that the Turkish Grand National Assembly's working hours and hours this week and August will be replaced by a number of jobs in the section of Law Bills and Proposals of the agenda. According to this, we propose that the Law Proposal on the Amendment to the Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Law Act No. 651, again 240 places on the agenda, and a number of international agreements to be placed on the 7th and 8th places on the agenda. As far as working days and hours are concerned, dear friends, you know, we're still in negotiations with bag number 639, and we're in section three, we've finished about one third, we've discussed 50 of the 128 articles. And the talks on chapter three ended yesterday, so we'll start the motions today, and hopefully that'll be done soon. It's Wednesday, July 23rd, so tomorrow it's 12 o'clock. We'll start working at 00, and hopefully finish at eight. Thursday, 12:00 again. Friday, 14. Starting at 00, until the end of business. In August: 14th Monday (August 4th) after the holidays. We'll start at 00. We'll start at 5, 6, Tuesday, 7 August, Wednesday and Thursday at one; we'll start again on Friday (August 8th) at 2:00 p.m., and we'll continue working until the end of business on the agenda. On August 12, 13, 14th, we also recommend that the General Assembly continue its work between 2:00 p.m. and 24 p.m. I look forward to your support for our proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0290par0323	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Against him, İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0291par0327	Mr. President, I'd like to make an assessment of the state's foreign policy as time allows, on the basis of this proposal by the Justice and Development Party Group to reconstitute the parliamentary agenda. Because of Israel's attack on Gaza, Turkey-Israeli relations have become the main agenda of our domestic policy. Mr. Prime Minister makes tough statements against Israel, but he's just making statements, talking in rally squares, talking on TV screens, not doing anything else, not doing anything else. Unfortunately, Mr. Erdogan's government, Mr. Erdogan-Davutoglu, has nothing to do with this, there is no step he can take. The Republic of Turkey is experiencing the weakest period in its foreign policy. As the Republican People's Party, I'd like to express our regret. Dear lawmakers, politics is based on sincerity. Politics isn't about twisting facts; politics isn't about lying; politics isn't about setting up rivals and misleading their reality, it's not about throwing mud at their opponents. In politics, you have to act from the truth, from the truth, whether you promise to dream or promise despair. If you're not acting from the truth, from the truth, then you're not doing politics on intimacy. Such politics has no credibility with a citizen. Dear MPs, I have heard the need to say this for this reason: Last week, on the night of July 16th, 17th, I took the word of Israel's attack on Gaza, and I condemned Israel's attack on Israel, and I invited the Turkish Parliament to issue a joint statement to condemn the attack on Israel's Gaza. All the political parties supported my proposal, the Speaker of Parliament, who led the session, took a break, gathered in the back, and agreed to release this statement the next day. The next day, I asked Mr. Faruk Logoglu, our Vice President, to draft a draft to be based on the declaration of Parliament, or rather, on the study. Mr. Logoglu is not missing, I thank him very much -- he quickly prepared a draft text and sent it to me at about half past half an hour, and I forwarded it to the members of the group's three political parties, calling themselves on the phone. I said, "I'm sending you a draft text." The General Assembly opened on July 17th, and Mr. Nurettin Canikli, deputy leader of Justice and Development Party, brought a draft by himself -- there were Peoples' Democratic Party, Peoples' Democratic Party -- and we said: "This is too long, let Mr. Faruk Logogoglu take these texts, put them together, put together a document that reflects the views of the groups. For example, Mr. Canikli, for our text, said that it would be better if there weren't two sentences for Mr. Canikli, and I said, "This is too long, this is not to be explained in the text of an Assembly." I said, "Let's put it together," and we've put it together in the context of the group. It's really important that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey demonstrates such a common will in Israel's attack on Gaza, and it has been a good contribution. But on July 19, 2014, Mr. Erdogan gave a speech at the Army rally. First Turkey celebrates the Grand National Assembly for its joint stance, then says: "But the Republican People's Party has brought a text there, and Israel has the right to legitimate defence in the text. We took it out.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0292par0332	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0291par0333	Dear lawmakers, politics is based on sincerity. I have brought a draft text, prepared for a text published by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the draft text states that Israel has the right to legitimate defence. Mr. Erdogan twists the facts, twists the facts. I was curious. I called Mr. Canikli. Mr. Canikli, we didn't talk about this, take this text. We didn't say anything, there's no such thing. I just sent your text to the Prime Minister, and I didn't make any other comment myself. It seems that Mr. Prime Minister made this comment by acting on his own, on our text. I, now, read the relevant sentence of Mr. Logoglu's manuscript, offering it to you, to your knowledge, to your appreciation. This is the draft text, and then Congress published a different text. I'm reading the relevant chapter, the text is that Gaza, under heavy bombardment from land, air, and sea, finds the number of lives lost and wounded rising with deep sadness and anxiety, while the killing of innocent civilians, women and children in particular, is considered an unacceptable and unforgivable crime of humanity. Israel's legitimate right to defend cannot be considered a cause for collective punishment at all. Unproportionate use of force has no place in the definition and application of legitimate defence rights. You're going to say: "There's a legitimate defense here." I'm going to tell you the Prime Minister's three sentences in the last few days. The first was July 19, 2014. Unfortunately, Israel continues to use the same cruelty, the same indiscriminate use of force. On July 20, TGRT News: "Israel is betrayed enough to kill children on the seaside without using disproportionate force." And again, on July 21st, TRT News says: "Israel continues to use disproportionate force."
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0293par0337	Is it the same thing as unintended power, or is it the same thing as self-defense?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0291par0338	Dear MPs, there is no difference between what we say and what Mr. Erdogan says as content. This doesn't suit me. Politics isn't about distortion. I'm going to give you an example of Mr. Erdoğan's hypocritical politics, which is a hypocritical politics: It's 99 years... in his group speech today, Mr. Prime Minister tells the history of Israel's attack and massacre against Palestine starting from 1948: he has massacred in Cenin. He says in 2009, he has committed a massacre in Gaza. In 2009, the Republican People's Party Group brings a proposal to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Mr. Onur Öymen speaks at the General Assembly of January 6, 2009: Come, let us condemn Israel. I also gave a joint statement to the ruling party group, but the ruling party group refused to accept it. The Prime Minister is complaining now that Israel has committed a massacre. So, let's show common will of the Republican People's Party against this massacre, and let's issue a statement as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Why are you turning down the proposal? Isn't that hypocritical politics, dear lawmakers? Moving on. He says today that they... they mean the opposition, he means the roof candidate, he means everyone. They want a government to stand guard against Israel. You, Prime Minister, are keeping watch against Israel.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0294par0342	Are you still there?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0291par0343	On February 10, 2012, the joint US-Israeli exercise tests the bilateral functioning of the spherical base and the co-base in Israel. It's not NATO, it's an American facility. There's no time left, I'll finish it very quickly. I will remind the Prime Minister of a promise. The date is 12 September 2011: sooner or later, I will go to Gaza. ( April 15, 2013: I am in Gaza at the end of May.) Kerry's explanation was not elegant. He says he'll leave in June. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The Prime Minister didn't make it to Gaza, but this year he went to Gebze. I know that. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0295par0349	Gaza and Gebze, that's hilarious!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0296par0350	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0295par0353	Wrong, wrong, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0297par0354	Mr. President, in favor of...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0298par0355	Second favor, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0299par0356	It's your turn later, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0297par0357	Okay.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0299par0358	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0300par0359	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. I have received a pledge on a motion submitted by the AKP (AKP). So, I'm assuming that they're showing each and every once in a while that they don't know what they want to do with it. Of course, they don't know what they want to do, so they go out and slander the opposition. Yesterday, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc says after the Council of Ministers meeting, the opposition blocked the law and prevented it against the Charter. But first of all, the ruling party is the one who brought this law in such a way by disobeying the Charter. Dear lawmakers, yes, we are strongly and strongly opposed to certain articles of this law. And I'm going to make it very clear what we're up against, and you're going to admit it. In the 76th article, exactly the same way, the firm tax holders, according to the basis of the bookkeeping, pay their debt to the partners by reporting to the tax offices by the end of the third month, which they have not had in their business, as well as to the transactions of the business, which they are owed for and for similar reasons, due to the amount of partnerships they are owed to them, as well as to those they owe to their partners, by the end of the third month that the law has been published. Dear MPs, what do they really want to do when they say that? However, what companies show on their balance sheets, the money they don't have in their safes... where did they give it to, who did they give it to?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0301par0364	To the pool.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0300par0365	They transferred it to the pool.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0301par0366	Harmless media, forbidden media.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0300par0367	Now, you're going to be laundering these coins, black money, and re-opening it by giving it back three percent in tax return. For God's sake, don't do this. In what way will you accept this? That's one. I'll tell you more about it, but I want everyone to read it themselves. Another article is Article 91. This is exactly what you say in the 91st article: "The State Departments of Water receive services related to the HES. What does it say about these services? It says:...the control service is performed by the DSI in water structures such as the building of men and riverbeds, which are subject to control costs, or is purchased by the Turkish Trade Law, which has been authorized by the DSI, by the Turkish Trade Law, by buying advice services for whom to whom to do it? Which counseling company, who's starting it? Why don't you do it? I mean, why don't you just check everything while you're at it? As a matter of fact, do you know what you're doing behind it, what position you're putting them in, you're saying that if there's no violation of the regulations and the project, if there's any violation of the legislation and the project, you're checking it out with this consulting company. For God's sake, crows laugh at it, don't do it. Who are you having checked, which counseling company are you assigning to the government? Is that possible? You can't possibly do that. I'll switch to another item, article 100. What are you saying: however, even if they are subject to the duties shown in Cetves No. 23/4/1981, under the Law relating to the Order of Deputies No. 2451 and the Order of Admissions (1) and (2), and are subject to different appointment procedures, the head of the agency and superior duties, other than civil servants, the staff of law enforcement agencies; the appointment made from the open, transfer or the transfer of these duties, and the replacement of those duties... I mean, you're dismissing the man, applying to court, reassigning him, reassigning him to court, reassigning the court. Two years later, you disregard the law with a decision to reassign. How can you be a state of law? There are rights and laws, so-called Justice and Development Party. Where's the justice here? So why don't you comply with the court order? Oh, is it possible to accept that? We can't possibly accept it. If you have problems with one another, it is none of our business. No parallel construction, no that, no that. None of our business. You have to respect the law. Of course we won't accept that. Then I move to Article 112, and you add a temporary clause to Article 1112: Why don't you give up the privatisation of this clause, if it's been five years, and do not give up the privatisation of these institutions, except in accordance with their agreements regarding the privatisation and privatisations that have been issued five years since the date of the release of the article? The state of law, the legislature, the democracy?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0302par0372	If it's impossible to enforce judgment...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0300par0373	He's not talking about making it impossible. There's always a way to enforce a judgment. So, you won't enforce the verdict, and then you'll say, "We are the state of law." What does another article say in Article 115? Where are the places declared by the Council of Ministers as an area of urban transformation and development project, provided there are no alternatives within the borders of the municipality, added to the 1st joke of Mera Law 25/02/1998 and Article 14/42?" He's being dropped off at City Hall. How ridiculous. So, you're going to constantly attract a number of routing fields, you're going to co-op them. Why the mera fields... you've become a city, everything in the big city is a field of mera. That means you're going to confiscate the field of livestock. Who are you going to give it to, what are you going to do? Then you can't do it this way, you have to limit it. There's Kayseri. There's the Hunat Mosque Foundation in Kayseri. What is the location of 17 and a half acres of land from all the Danes today? There's a Kayseri Forum building. First it was taken as a stadium, then left there. Where did the foundation land go? Where did 17 and a half acres of land go? It'll be used the same way. You've got a 115, which brings up something that's going to be a big runt. Another article, Article 124, you say: The 1st sentence of Article 15 of Law 5393 (5) in the first sentence of Article 5) has been replaced and the following joke has been added to the article as immovable. Wait a minute, why are you making land impossible? Because of the stuff you put in the back. Therefore, the Mayor of the Conqueror is on trial. Because a foundation there transferred land to the foundation of the Prime Minister's son. Not only the land, but also the Silivri. You're trying to legitimize this. Come on, I mean, for God's sake! What right do you have to hand over the property of the people and the property of the municipality to a foundation? Who gives you that authority?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0303par0379	Whose foundation is it, Mr. President? Whose foundation is it?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0300par0380	Whose foundation is this? Like I said, the foundation of the Prime Minister's son.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0303par0381	That's the point.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0300par0382	How do you give it to him?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0304par0383	They're going to rob, they're going to rob! The looting, the looting... how else would they do it?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0300par0384	Do you have the right to hand over the property of the people? He can't... no foundation. Look, the foundation serves certain groups. Now, what's the thing about the house that's being built in Silivri? There's money coming in from the dorms, with this money... look, okay? What is the name of the city of Fatih, of the people of Fatih, of Silivri? For God's sake! You cannot give away what belongs to the people of the conqueror.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0305par0385	There's a winner. There's a Sylivrikap.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0300par0386	No, friend! I mean, it's Ramadan today. There's a thing called the right of a servant. One of the most important indicators of the fear of God is that you must obey the right of the subject. Well, the foundation... you know how many foundations there are? You need to know how many foundations there are. I just said, why did you give the Hunat Mosque Foundation the Kayseri Forum to the municipality? How do you explain it? The mosque foundation, all the way from the Danishmentians, before the Seljuks. Then you'll raise money for the mosque at the mosque's door.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0305par0388	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0300par0389	Of course, go see Kayseri.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0305par0390	Silivrikap Hodja, not Silivri.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0300par0391	Look, I'm telling you something. I just told you about Hunat. Silivri, Silivri, what's the difference? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] So, don't forget, you're going to Silivri tomorrow. We will, of course, resist this injustice in exchange for this unlawful conduct, but if you approve of it, you will also be burdened with it, and then the opposition has prevented it. If it's about Soma... we said: "Get these materials out, and we'll finish them in three days." But you want to put them in. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0306par0396	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0307par0400	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Kayseri MP Mr. Halaçoglu has mentioned some issues concerning Kayseri. Before that, our group made our suggestion so wrong. He said, "I don't know what's wrong here." He tried to say things about our mistake for two or three minutes, and he repeated exactly what he said last night about the third chapter of Bill 639.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0308par0402	You don't understand, so we have to repeat it.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0307par0403	The MPs who listened to you here last night saw that it was exactly the same, and they listened. I suppose you might have done it today to re-record your speech from last night. Look, here's what we're doing... and your motions will be looked at by those who are reviewing the report tomorrow, 50 items have passed so far. It takes about seven minutes to read 50 articles, especially your motion. The whole seven-minute chapter, which is written on the motion, by the law proposal of this, by the number of the following, two divisions, such as this, or this, came to the president's speech, but one minute you said, "I'll give you an example: the meeting he's been meeting with, which he's been doing, you'll say and you'll put it out there. Actually, I don't think...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0308par0405	Don't you know why?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0307par0406	What's that motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0308par0407	Those motions indicate that if there's a positive arrangement in the substance, we don't want to change it. You should be thanking me.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0307par0408	No, that motion... That's what I'm saying, Mr. Erkan. I'll thank him. So, the reviewers of those transcripts, the National Movement Party MPs, they're working on this law in an extraordinary way, they're looking at it in a terrific way...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0309par0411	Yeah, yeah...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0310par0412	Even a letter is important, even a point is important.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0307par0413	...and they understand that a word in a sentence has to be changed as a dictionary, and they've worked so hard, we thank them for their hard work. They'll see you in history and they'll give you a medal.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0309par0414	Shame on you, you should be ashamed to say that!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0307par0415	Look, the HDP Group says... 539... 569... what's the number of rows?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0311par0417	639.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0307par0418	The Law Proposal No. 539...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0312par0419	639...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0313par0420	You don't know about the bill.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0314par0421	You didn't study, 639. You're the vice president of the group, you don't know the number of lines. What a shame!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0313par0422	You're vice president of the group. You don't know about the bill. You don't even know his name, you don't know his number.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0423	The Law Proposal, number 639, says, "Let's change it to this situation." The Republican People's Party is doing it in a different way.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0313par0424	We know this bill better than any of you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0425	That's right.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0313par0426	You up for an argument?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0427	That's why you're saying "all the way" instead of "all the way," instead of "word," because you know it so well!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0313par0428	We're going to talk about the proposals there in 148. You ignorant man!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0429	Look, dear lawmakers, now, what is the history of the place you told us about the Kaiseri Hunat Mosque Foundation?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0316par0430	How?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0431	What was in the history of the place that is now Kayseri Forum? What was there?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0317par0432	It's the foundation, the foundation. No matter what.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0316par0433	He had a stadium in his past.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0434	The stadium, which was previously built in 1957 under the agreement of the Kayseri Metropolitan Municipality, became a stadium of 33,000 people today, as an example to Turkey under the agreement made by the Kayseri Metropolitan Municipality of Kayseri. With the money he sold, the city of Kayseri built the stadium and built the city terminal and made an example of it. If the owners of that thing -- there are cases, there are a number of rights owners -- they went to court during the time of the adjudication process. The court said: "This stadium has been used for nearly 60 years, its purpose has been fulfilled, and since it has been replaced by another stadium and transferred to Youth and Sports General Directorate, the rights owners' objections have been rejected in court and the Supreme Court has approved it. So, what you're saying here in the law -- the 100th or the other article or the law -- unfortunately, it's not in the bill, dear teacher.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0316par0435	There's no 100?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0436	Look, that part about Kayseri Stadium isn't in this bill; it's one.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0316par0437	Yeah, we talked about the mera.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0438	It's about Kayseri.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0316par0439	I told him about the mera, about the foundation land for him.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0440	Hodja, please don't, you're going from charity to charity, you're going from the foundation to the Hunat Mosque, you're going to the stadium, so walk a road and go what you're going to do next.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0316par0441	I'll explain it to you now. Now, I'll explain.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0318par0442	Why don't you tell me about your group proposal? Time's running out.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0443	This is not the part about Kayseri Stadium, and I would like to present it to you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0316par0444	I'll explain to you what it is, and I'll explain to the foundation. I'll explain to you what scams have been going on, and I'll explain to you his foundation.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0318par0445	Why don't you explain your group proposal first? Did you explain the group proposal?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0446	Dear lawmakers, look, Mr. Hamzacebi has expressed an issue, he has arrived, and on July 17th, Mr. Canikli has also come here, and I think he will answer -- in accordance with a decision here, a joint motion has been made to condemn the incident in Israel by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, from what we've heard, both a valued member of the Republican People's Party and a friend of ours from the EC PARTY prepare a text for this matter, and political parties come together, meet. Then they make a deal to make it a common text, and in the end, this text emerges, and on July 19th, they say that Mr. Prime Minister had a different meaning by twisting about the draft brought by the Republican People's Party. I didn't listen to the Prime Minister's speech. We had work on the General Assembly that day, and I'm not sure if he didn't, and I couldn't confirm that there wasn't time, but I want to make it clear from a promise by Mr. Hamzacebi, that the Republican People's Party's intentions may be understood, that Turkey is in the Grand National Assembly. Mr. Hamzacebi says that the military action that Israel has launched against Gaza has exceeded its purpose. What was its purpose? So Israel was self-defense, which exceeded the purpose of military action? And it comes in the sentences behind it, and it says, "He's out of his mind, now he's going to kill children and civilians." I mean, if Israel hadn't overstepped the purpose of his action against Gaza, it was nothing more than self-defense.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0319par0447	He's just saying that because he said it was self-defense.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0448	... I looked through the notes here, and I couldn't find them, but what you did, I guess, could have been your conversation that day, and that's the same goal as the conversation you made that day. Two, politicians should be honest, honest. You speak the truth. For example, there's a motion in my pocket that your group made yesterday. If you remember, there was an increase that we had prepared, organized, two of our fellow MPs, Mr. Toptaş, and sent to the disciplinary board, regarding the parliamentary pensions.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0319par0450	Who did we send to discipline?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0451	With Mr. Topstone's signatures...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0320par0452	We didn't go anywhere.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0453	... And that Mr. Tanju was also signed by Mr. Kılıçdaroğlu...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0321par0454	Mr. Elitaş, we didn't send anyone to discipline, you're not telling the truth. But be honest, please.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0455	... Please stop writing letters to the President. He had an offer. You brought him here, you put him on the inside of the bill as a matter violation. Do you know what it was then? It must have been 60 per cent at the time, but if your offer had been accepted, the AK PARTI lawmakers, if the members of the Commission had sat there, with that offer, the MP's pensions would have increased by 56.5 per cent. They disciplined you, Mr. Topstone, you know, about that.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0322par0456	No, no, they didn't discipline me.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0321par0457	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0458	They've disciplined him on that subject.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0322par0459	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0321par0460	No, you're not telling the truth, Elitaş, you're not telling the truth. For once, speak straight from that stand! It's always the same. So tell me about this imam, imam.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0461	Now, the politician must stand by his words. God rest his soul, Farid Mevlüt Aslanoglu was devastated about the matter, and his bones hurt after hearing that motion yesterday.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0321par0462	Tell me about the imam, Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0463	Look, your president, when he was General Manager, his son, 13 years old - March 1994 or 1996 -- a junior high school student, works as an insured employee in a large company.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0323par0464	It's better than stealing, bro!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0321par0465	Elitaş, tell me about the imam, the imam. Tell me the imam, tell me the smart stuff.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0466	I asked him, I said, did he go to school in March 1994, when your son was a junior high student? If he's gone to school, how's he gonna make this reed, what's it gonna look like, insured?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0321par0467	Tell me the imam, leave it alone. 90 per cent of the AKP Group's children are insured, so let them come out one by one and say so. Never mind about the business, the imam, the imam.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0468	If there's a different situation here, if there's a long-term situation here that you're planning to take out in 1998, 1999...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0321par0469	Don't play dirty politics!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0470	...long-term retirement age in 2001, when we asked if you did it so your baby wouldn't get caught, Mr. Kilicdaroglu...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0321par0472	His children didn't steal public property, they didn't siphon public property.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0473	...Group President Deputy, couldn't answer. Last you know, he had his grandson insured by his only-year-old grandson.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0324par0474	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0321par0475	Tell me about the imam, imam. Tell me how you shared it.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0476	The honest politician must show his integrity everywhere. A politician, who's mud, who's in the mud, should not stoop to smearing anyone else.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0325par0477	It's a fountain fight!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0315par0478	I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0326par0480	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0327par0481	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0328par0482	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0329par0483	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0330par0484	I'll take your promises in order. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0331par0486	Mr. Orator must have teased me. On the night of July 16th, 17th, Israel used my statement on condemning Israel in a different way than it intended. In addition, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, our president, has been taunting Mr. Kemal Kılıçdaroglu with sentences that have no original linings, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0330par0487	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0332par0488	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0330par0489	Then I'll listen to you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0333par0492	Mr. President, the valuable MPs, they have the text I received on the Internet about the Prime Minister's sentence, Mr. Elitas. If not, I can present it to him. I didn't see it, I don't know, I couldn't study it. There's no need to say it, Mr. Prime Minister says it here. That night, I publicly and openly condemned Israel. All of your shame, whether it is about the executions in Egypt, whether it is about Israel's attack on Gaza, is the movement of the Republican People's Party first, and you are disturbed by it. Let me tell you something else: For Gaza, our friends have applied for Gaza. I mean, do you guys do this kind of thing? That is what it would be like to take care of Gaza, not to talk nonsense in the squares.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0334par0494	They boarded the ships and then landed again.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0333par0495	What does the Prime Minister say? Thus, if Israel uses ornate power, and kills children without saying, it is possible that if he uses ornates, his family will not kill the child.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0335par0496	It belongs to you, it belongs to you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0336par0497	That's what you're saying.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0333par0498	Yes, Israel uses disproportionate force, killing children and women.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0335par0499	It belongs to you, look at the reports. His name's on the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0336par0500	It's in the report.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0333par0501	So if he excludes children and women, he can kill the others.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0335par0502	You can't make these people believe that.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0337par0503	Don't believe it, don't believe it!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0333par0504	Dear MPs, Mr. Elitaş, who will now defend the president, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, has entered a very wrong place.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0338par0506	Please be quiet.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0333par0507	He says: "Your president's child, I don't know when, at a young age, was insured. " Our President's children don't have boats, our President's son only plays guitar, he doesn't know how to play anything else.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0339par0509	He's as good as our presidential candidate.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0333par0510	Our President-General, reset the money with his children. There is no telephone conversation. We've got a whole...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0340par0512	You're being rude.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0341par0513	Look who's naughty, look who's naughty. Yes, we're rude, for saying so.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0333par0514	You sit down and think about what kind of president you have, maybe you'll see the truth.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0342par0516	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0343par0517	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0342par0518	Come in, Mr. Topstone, I'll listen to you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0343par0519	He gave me false information, and there he was, sending it to the D.A., he said.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0342par0520	Here you go, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0343par0522	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Elitaş, I've signed a motion, and rightly, I stood firm behind that motion; one.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0344par0524	It's beautiful.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0343par0525	Because in my family, there's no wrongful profits, no trillions, no bidders, no tenders. I came to Parliament as a man of my labour, and I had to take legal money from the public's budget in Parliament, and I signed it so I wouldn't be a slave to others, not to follow other people's work, and I stood behind it.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0344par0526	Why did you write a letter to the President?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0343par0527	I, Mr. Deputy President of the Group, am a Democrat and free MP of a free and democratic party. I'm not from the biat culture, I'll do whatever I think is right, and I'll stand behind it.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0345par0528	Bravo!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0343par0529	I've never been a man of orders to anyone, not a chain of command, never even bowed to the government in my life. If not, don't say the wrong things about me, my party didn't discipline me, and no one asked me why you did it, and I want it to be known that way.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0346par0530	Who signed you?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0343par0531	Leave me out of it, I signed it myself.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0346par0532	Who signed you?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0347par0533	He went and threw it away of his own free will.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0343par0534	With my free will...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0346par0535	Free will? Don't lie!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0343par0536	You're lying, I've never lied in my life!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0346par0537	Did you throw it out of your own free will, or did someone give you instructions?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0343par0538	I stood by that signature, and I'm still standing, and I'm not afraid of anyone.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0346par0539	Did someone give you instructions?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0343par0540	Pass them, pass them. You take care of yourself, I signed it, I came there, I signed it.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0348par0542	Thank you, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0346par0543	Who called you?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0348par0544	Calm down, please.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0349par0545	I signed it, I signed it.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0346par0546	Who called you?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0349par0547	What do you mean, who called? I came by myself.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0350par0549	Please remain calm.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0351par0550	Are you going to the safe house or not?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0349par0551	What do you mean? Well, you haven't been free your whole life, and you're defending it today.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0350par0553	Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0352par0554	Mr. President, Mr. Elistash has been taunting us about our group's motions, and he also said I gave him false information.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0350par0555	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0352par0557	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in fact, if you look at the first word of the law, you named it. It is quite clear that we are calling the law that way under the Charter, and there is nothing against the Charter, nor anything else. So there's no way we can even accept that this is being judged in any way. But if you have to stop it, yes, we're trying to stop it, so let me be clear. We're trying to prevent it because -- what I just said -- you're bringing in a good set of laws, you're putting stuff in there that's going to give people a runt, and you're trying to get them to pass it along with you. We can't possibly accept that, so we're against it. Secondly, you've just mentioned Kayseri Forum, the foundation... I've told you about: I told you about the site to tell you how to pursue the Mera fields. So think about it, if you're making the foundation of a mosque... so you're going to build a stadium. You're going to build a stadium, you're going to build a stadium, and then you're going to...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0353par0560	Yeah, that's the stadium.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0352par0561	These are the people of understanding. Read the Law of the Foundations, which is returned to its former place after public use is completed. You didn't return it, you made Kayseri Forum, you sold it to the Dutch Multicorporation. Then they went bankrupt, and he came, and the company of the United States bought Blackstone. Okay? It doesn't even belong to the Turks. I'm talking about 17 and a half acres of foundation land. Have a heart! You're even wasting the mosque foundation on the runt. I mean, come on! It opened in 2011, so it opened in your time, on December 21, 2011, what do you say? So, don't...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0354par0562	Teacher, you need to fix the matter in Fatih. That's Silivrikap, within the borders of Fatih County.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0352par0563	Okay, no matter what the Silivrikap of the Conqueror, you cannot give the property of the municipality, of the people! You can't give anything away in someone else's name. That is the right religion.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0355par0565	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0356par0566	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0355par0567	Please Tanju Özcan, what did you want to say?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0356par0568	Sir, in his speech, Mr. Elitaş was taunted by the fact that he mentioned my name and made false statements about me. I want promises from teasing.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0355par0569	Is this for the signature?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0356par0570	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0355par0571	Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0356par0574	Mr. President, I find it very pointless that Mr. Elitas, in the first place, brought up a matter that wasn't on the agenda, brought up here today by Mr. Elitas to this day, but I think it's very appropriate for him, too. Now, I want to make it clear that no disciplinary process has been run because of the debates in those days, that's one. Even though I, Tanju Özcan, was subjected to any injustice in those days, I therefore gave my blessing to my party.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0357par0576	Who did the wrong?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0356par0577	Is there a problem here? Secondly, I think those who come here and bring this up should also question: We clearly remember that some of the MPs from your party group insulted the MPs here. We even remember that there were lawmakers who were abusing our MPs. If you're going to talk about disciplinary action, you need to tell me why you didn't start a disciplinary process on them first. It's a shame, it's a shame, and this attitude of yours really needs to be blamed. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0358par0581	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. I'd like to put the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that our legal proposal be brought directly to the General Assembly in accordance with Article 37, under Article 37 of the Civil Code, since our Law Proposal for Payance and Social Security Law Amendment cannot be discussed within 45 days of the commission. Yours truly. 11/04/2012 As the bidder, Kütahya MP Alim Ik. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0359par0598	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a promise that Mr. Lütfü Türkkan, our esteemed MP, has made a change in the 1st amendment to the 1st Article of the Constitution and Social Security Act 2108 by Mr. Lütfü Türkkan, which I later agreed to take directly into the agenda of the Supreme Assembly. I hereby salute you and our fellow citizens who follow us. Our proposal for this law is to improve the rights of the chiefs who serve in our country's most remote settlements, neighborhoods and villages for public purposes, and to increase the budgets to at least twofold if the Council of Ministers approves them. So I'd like to say that this offer, which aims to correct the plight of the chiefs, is still a valid offer, even though it can be ranked today in January 2012. Because on July 12, 2013, at the end of last year's legislature, just like these days, a bag of legislation provided a partial improvement in the grants of all parties with a joint proposal, so there was an arrangement for the monthly payment of 460 euros to be raised to 875 euros. But that's not enough to solve the problems the muhtars are in, lawmakers. Because it is imperative that non-retardants, especially non-retardants, have to pay social security premiums, and that they have to do all the spending in their chiefs out of their own pockets, as well as any demand from the head of the community from the citizen, where there is no office for them to live, to meet the guest who comes to his village or neighborhood, to receive a higher salary in their social condition. That's what we're offering. So I'm going back to the agenda of this great General Assembly, at least today's gross minimum wage level, 1,334 TL, with the figures today -- 1,100-1. I'm saying that they'll be able to contribute to the solution to the problems they're in when they receive a monthly grant from $200. That's what we're proposing. On this occasion, it is mitigating to their workload that our chiefs, especially in recent years, did not have to provide such services in exchange for the transition of address to the Local Registering System and the address information for citizens to receive directly from the Local Register Offices, but therefore, they had to withdraw from the income they had collected as a valid price for their documents for years. At this point, it's a matter of fixing the situation of the neighborhood and the chiefs of the village's representative, I believe, through every member of parliament in the Supreme Assembly. He says that if such a one-point law is put on the agenda of the House as soon as it is legalized, we will all be affected in a positive way, with respect again, waiting for your support on the agenda of our law proposal.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0360par0606	Thank you, Mr. Light. Iconian MP Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0361par0610	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from our esteemed MPs, Lütfü Türkkan, the MP of the National Movement Party, on the proposal of the law on our chiefs and on my part. I salute you all. Our Mukhtars perform an important task in communicating with the state and citizens, with the first hand-to-hand transfer of the citizens' expectations of service to the authorities and the fulfillment of the service. Many of our chiefs have suffered a great deal because their monthly allowances by 2014 were too poor, and many of our chiefs have fallen short of social security because they couldn't pay their bonus debt. Last year in July, we were relieved by the bag of law. The special effort of the National Movement Party and its struggle for our chiefs over the years has certainly been effective in including the arrangement for raising monthly allowances to 875 lira. Our Mukhtars are trying to serve under the laws passed 70 years ago. In fact, Village Law 442 of 90 years is now in effect. These laws must be redacted according to the conditions of the day, redefined the job descriptions of the chiefs, and increased their legal authority as well as their responsibility. The village room and neighborhood chiefs must be made legal arrangements for the construction of the relevant municipal offices and municipalities and for the payment of their necessary costs, for free use of municipal public transportation vehicles, as well as for the establishment of a consortium for the country's benefit, and for the representation of the mayors in general and municipal councils. Dear lawmakers, today, members of the city council and members of the city council also have many problems. The city council members and members of the city's general assembly are elected from the boroughs and serve the entire province, so they face many challenges. These friends are only allowed to have peace per meeting, and the right to peace paid is insufficient. As the National Movement Party, our proposals for the law on this matter are on the agenda of the House. The city's general assembly and council members must be granted social security and their right to peace must be improved. It is also necessary to arrange for city council members to benefit from the right of green passports and to obtain a license to carry arms. Our mayors also have issues with their rights. In particular, there are different practices related to the compensation paid to our retired mayors, the office and the severance package. It is against the Constitution's principle of equality that some mayors should benefit from the duties and representation of the law and not benefit from some mayors. In the past, we have many mayors who have not been able to benefit from these compensations. Again, even though he had been mayor for a long time, he came with an ATama. We have mayors who can't benefit from these compensations. Our mayors, the victim of SEC and BUG-KUR pensions, must be able to receive the severance and responsibilities they deserve. Again, after this date, with the Social Security Act of 2008, our mayors, who were elected mayors in 2009, are unfortunately unable to receive this compensation again if there is no pensioner in their past. But he has no civil service, but those who have served as reserve officers can be used. The rights of the mayors must be improved, the differences between the pensions of the mayors must be resolved, and the additional indicator, office and duty compensations set for mayoral mayors must be used equally. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0362par0618	Thank you, Mr. Kalayci. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0363par0620	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0362par0621	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who don't agree... Let's vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Now, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, where we left off from the 1st place in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Kars MP Yunus Kılıç and Amassian MP Avni Erdemir and 79 MPs who are ranked in the 3rd ranking position of President of the Health Institutes of Turkey and the Constitutional Proposal and Health, Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of 108 legal proposals and Plan and Budget Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 4th place, in accordance with the Employment Law and the Amendment to certain Laws. The commission and the government are in place. In the past session, talks were completed on the third part of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the third section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. There are three motions on Article 51: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Numbered Bill of Law shall be changed under Article 51, under which Article 72 of the Law shall be changed. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Sebahat Tuncel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP İzzet Aslanoğlu's Party's Democratic Party; İstanbul MP and İstanbul MP's Democratic Party's Party's Democratic Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party of Ministers and İstanbul's Democratic Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party of Ministers and İstanbul's Party of Ministers; İstanbul MP's Party of Ministers and İstanbul's Party of Ministers; İstanbul's Party of Turkey's Democratic Party of Ministers; Ankara MP İztet Tuzel; İstanbul's Party's MP İzket Balukı; İstanbul's Party's İstanbul's MP; İstanbul's İstanbul's Party's MP and İstanbul's Party's Party's MP's MP's Party; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul's MP's Party (TK) and İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's İstanbul MP's İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul MP's MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's MP's MP's MP's Party; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul's Party; İstanbul's MP's Party's MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's MP's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's MP's İstanbul ( We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Free Private Levent Sky Rahmi Love Style Musa Pine Vahaap Selects Bült Kuşoğlu The following joke has been added to Article 72 of Article 51-5510. "Except for those who participate in the commissions referred to in Article 63, including those referred to in Article 63 in Article 63, and the scientific and academic attributes of scientific commissions or medical examinations, medical evaluations, medical compliance approval, work and procedures carried out by the institution; the payment is made to students assigned from universities, who have been appointed from public and private health institutions and institutions, not to exceed the monthly factor of the number of indicators (6,500). With the procedure, the basis and quantity of this payment, other issues are determined by the Ministry of Finance by receiving the institution's proposal." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş Yusuf Halaçoğlu Cemalettin Simsek Mesut Dedeoğlu The first sentence of Article 51-5510 of Article 72 of the Law consists of eleven members, including the Ministry, Finance, Health, Development, Ministry of Economics, Family and Social Policy, Treasury Undersecretary, University Healthcare servers and two members representing the institution." It has been modified in the form and added the following joke to the item. "Except for those who participate in the commissions referred to in Article 63, including those referred to in Article 63, and the scientific and academic attributes of this clause, it is paid by the institution not to cross the monthly factor of the number of indicators, such as scientificly qualified commissions or medical reviews, medical approvation, medical fitness approval, work and transactions; it is paid to the faculty who are assigned from universities, from the public and private health institutions and institutions, not to cross the officer's monthly factor of the number of indicators and pharmacists (6,000). All expenses are paid by the Institution for the work of those who have been assigned to work in commissions referred to in Article 63 and in the study of medical examinations, medical evaluations, medical approving of fitness and procedures. The procedure, the basis and the amount of this payment and other issues are determined jointly by the Ministry of the Institution and Finance." Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0364par0672	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0362par0673	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Samsun MP Jamalattin Lightning, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0365par0677	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the amendment proposal we made in Article 51 concerning Section 639 and the Amendment to the Amendment to some Laws and Laws. On this occasion, I salute you all. But before we get to the point, I'd like to make a point. I also knew that Mr. Prime Minister hadn't been able to go to Gaza since May last year, and I even thought I asked him a question about it, but I didn't know he was going to Gebze. I want to thank Mr. Hamzacebi. I'm saying maybe America let him go there. Also, I'd like to also say that a very valuable member of the ruling party's group has just come out here and said that the child of an opposition party leader is insured at the age of 13, and that it is a great shame, a great crime. It's a mess with December 17, 25th events, you've changed the Judiciary Code, you've sent the cops, the prosecutors, the $100 million, it's been mentioned in and out of the Prime Minister's son's account, it's obvious you've been throwing cops around, talking things around, and I'm saying that I don't think it's very important for the ruling party's esteemed vice president. As for the change in Article 51 in Article 51: This is part of Social Insurance Act 5510 and General Health Insurance Act 72, adding a joke to Article 72, excluding those in the third joke of Article III, including those assigned to the commissions stated in Article 63, and the number of medical and academic attributes and the number of health care providers and physicians listed in Article 63, has been paid by the SGK for a sum of up to six hundred months. The procedure and basis of this payment are jointly determined by the institution and the Finance Ministry. It is determined that the 72nd article will be paid by commissions, which will also be paid by the 65th article. In our amendment proposal, the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is also added to a board and asked to be included in the Health Services Price Commission to increase the number of members of the Commission to 11. Building these commissions, valuable MPs, doesn't solve our problem. Let me point out: In health care, these commissions determine the way SGK will do for patients, the cost of their beds, the price of their food, as well as the price they will be paid when they are transferred to a place, according to the SUT directive. But I'm telling you something very important here -- really, we make good laws here, but there's no such thing in the implementation phase. It's funny how you can set up a commission like this right now and re-commit them and tell them that they can be determined by commissions here, even though there's been no change in the price of the Health Appliances Act since 2005. Dear lawmakers, the price of SUT in 2005 is still valid, and some of these prices have been deducted from payment. Despite the price of SUT, which has not changed since 2005, it is more than 100 percent when we calculate the increase in inflation. It is not possible for him to expect quality health care from here, to expect better health care at these prices. Dear lawmakers, Article 63 (d) of Law 5510 determines how to treat people's dental care in case they get sick. I can't explain it here because I'm running out of time, but today, dental care, health care, oral and dental care. These health care services, oral and dental care, must also be corrected. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Today, in 130 health centers, seven thousand dentists are not qualified to provide these health care services, and they are guaranteed to buy health care from the free.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0366par0689	He's up to 10,000.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0365par0690	It didn't reach 10,000, about 78,000. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0367par0693	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP İzzet Aslanoğlu's Party's Democratic Party; İstanbul MP and İstanbul MP's Democratic Party's Party's Democratic Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party of Ministers and İstanbul's Democratic Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party of Ministers and İstanbul's Party of Ministers; İstanbul MP's Party of Ministers and İstanbul's Party of Ministers; İstanbul's Party of Turkey's Democratic Party of Ministers; Ankara MP İztet Tuzel; İstanbul's Party's MP İzket Balukı; İstanbul's Party's İstanbul's MP; İstanbul's İstanbul's Party's MP and İstanbul's Party's Party's MP's MP's Party; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul's MP's Party (TK) and İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's İstanbul MP's İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul MP's MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's MP's MP's MP's Party; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul's Party; İstanbul's MP's Party's MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's MP's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's MP's İstanbul ( We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Free Private (Manisa) and friends The following joke has been added to Article 72 of Article 51-5510. "Except for those who participate in the commissions referred to in Article 63, including those referred to in Article 63 in Article 63, and the scientific and academic attributes of scientific commissions or medical examinations, medical evaluations, medical compliance approval, work and procedures carried out by the institution; the payment is made to students assigned from universities, who have been appointed from public and private health institutions and institutions, not to exceed the monthly factor of the number of indicators (6,500). With the procedure, the basis and quantity of this payment, other issues are determined by the Ministry of Finance by receiving the institution's proposal." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0368par0702	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit02spe0367par0703	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit03spe0367par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 123th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue our negotiations with Bill 639. The commission and the government are in place. I'm taking a 30-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit04spe0367par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 123th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue our negotiations with Bill 639. The commission and the government are in place. We stayed in the motion on Article 51. Mr. Elector of the Republican People's Party will discuss the motion that the government and the Commission disagreed with. Here you go, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit04spe0369par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. You know, we're discussing the bag of law. I have made a promise regarding the motion we made in Article 51. According to AKP's group proposal, our work will continue after the festival, until the presidential election. If we don't complete these negotiations, we'll continue our studies after the holidays. Well, I guess this year of legislature is no longer an opportunity for the House to take a vacation. In this arrangement, for example, there's a problem with pensioners; let's put these in age; there's people who hang out; there's BUG-KURL people, there's agricultural insurance; there's some problems with our farmers who've been making farms that haven't been doing so well in recent years, and they have debts, and they need to be postponed. So let's make them rich with the motions, and this 149 can go up to 200, 250, so we don't mind. My dear friends, when there's a fire next door, there's no way it won't spread to us. In particular, there have been significant developments in the Middle East since the second Gulf crisis, followed by the Arab Spring. Since the early Middle East 1900s, for the first time since the First World War, such important processes have been under way, and border lines have been redefined. When we were working here yesterday, we got some sad news at night. At Ceylanınar, one of our soldiers was reported to have been killed and wounded as a result of a battle in the border. Later, the number of martyrs increased to two. Of course, for a long time, we had the peace, the happiness of not receiving the martyr news of our soldiers from the east and the southeast, and we were deeply grieved. I wish God's mercy to our fallen soldiers, my condolences to his grieving family, to our people, to our wounded soldier. While the Minister of Labor was here yesterday reviewing this issue, he mentioned that there were no known terrorist or smugglers in the conflict between our soldiers and the elements that were waiting for the border. I believe that's what the Governor of Urbana's explanation was. But it has come to my attention today that the General Staff has an explanation, which says that at least six PKKs or PYD terrorists have been considered dead. There is no such certainty. Now, I want to come from here: you know, our Syrian border is our longest border, a land border of about 900km. Since February 2011, especially since the internal turmoil in Syria, your policies on Syria have been debated in this Parliament. You're doing the wrong thing. That's where you support terrorist elements. Adeta, that line has turned into a dead ringer, and the road has turned into a passing inn. Excuse me. We tried to tell you with a vision, but we couldn't. Now, in such chaos, I suppose, if they're smugglers, they're not local smugglers. We have a bet, we have an argument. After the Syrian events, an organization called INDISTINCT was formed. This has now achieved a terrible power in Iraq, Syria, an important financial structure, a power of arms, a power of man. There's probably a lot of Islamic countries in the world that include Turkey -- there's thousands of people involved in the organization for jihad, and you've supported them, you've tolerated them, you've allowed them to cross that border, you've allowed them to cross. You allowed the wounded to be treated here, especially in Syrian provinces, in Osmaniye, in Şanlıurfa, in Gaziantep. You provided them logistical support, financial support, weapons support. Yesterday, Vice President Bulent Tezcan held an important meeting, held a press conference on trucks captured in Adana. He shared the transcripts with the public. He went out with the prosecutor's transcripts of law enforcement there, held a press conference. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yesterday he disclosed where the weapons loaded from a foreign national plane -- which was fixed with the testimony of this truck driver -- were taken from places, where they were delivered to the border, who they were delivered to, which illegal organisations. Indeed, Turkey's wrongs about Middle Eastern policy will become a boomerang, hit us again. I hope that doesn't happen. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit04spe0370par0022	Thank you, Mr. Chosen. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit04spe0371par0026	Mr. President, we're requesting a roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit04spe0370par0027	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Tüleli, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yıldız, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Akar, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Pine, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Küyüklı, Mr. Elector, Mr. Ademir, Mr. Acar, Mr. Logoglu, Mr. Onur, Mr. Aygun. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] We have enough numbers for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Numbered Bill of Law shall be changed under Article 51, under which Article 72 of the Law shall be changed. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit04spe0372par0041	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit04spe0370par0042	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Then let's read the motive. The change is intended to make the text more clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 51 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 51 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 52: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Numbered Bill of Legislatives, which has been discussed, be removed from the draft text of the "and/or service purchase," in the third joke of Article 52, which stipulates to make a change in Article 73 of the Law. İdris Bauken Erol Dora İstiye Birtane Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş The second sentence of the tenth joke has been changed in the following manner, and the following jokes have been added to the article after its eleventh joke. "However, in accordance with the procedures laid out in Article 72, the products in this scope will be met within the duration of the warranty or the product demands for the same purpose, according to the procedures and basis set by the Institution." "The institution is authorized to set criteria for bill control, to create alternative repayment models and to make assessments and/or audits on these issues, to receive services accordingly. The institution may receive a minimum fee, not to exceed twenty times the minimum price of health care and/or product lists under payment from real or legal persons, to not exceed ten times the minimum fee for remaining on lists of other medical materials and products, except drugs, to not exceed three times the minimum amount of the price reduction demands, and to not exceed the minimum wage of changes in the lists, the processing fee for each transaction can be paid by the public institutional personality, except for contracts based on protocols made with private professions. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this joke are determined by the Institution." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's; İstanbul MP Sena Kalat Çetin's; İstanbul MP Şekerı's Party's MP and İstanbul MP's MP's Minister's Party; Ankara MP İzket İzket Çeş; İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul MP İşent Tuzel's Party; İstanbul's Minister's Party; İstanbul's Minister's Democratic Party and Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Çağulım Çağal; Ankara's Minister's Minister's Party and İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul Çağıpıpıpıı; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul MP's MP's Democratic Party; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul MP's MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party (TK MP's MP's MP's MP's Party; Ankara MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Minister of Parliament's Minister's Party of Parliament's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister of Parliament's Minister of Parliament's Party; Ankara MP's Party; Ankara MP's Party of Parliament's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament; Ankara MP's Party of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament and İstanbul MP's Party of Parliament; İstanbul MP's Party's Party of Parliament and İstanbul's Party of Parliament's Minister's Party of Parliament's Minister of Parliament; İstanbul (TK's Party of Parliament's Party of Parliament's Party of Parliament's Party of Parliament's Party of Parliament; İstanbul MP's Party of Parliament's Party of Parliament's Party of Parliament's Party of Turkey's Party's We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. A Free Special Vacay Selects The Way of Love Does the commission agree with my latest motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit04spe0373par0073	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit04spe0370par0074	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. On the motion of the Republican People's Party, the Manisa MP will speak in private. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit04spe0374par0078	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 52. As I stated in another article yesterday, there are serious differences between the arrival of materials to the Plan and Budget Commission, the subcommittee and its exit from the Commission. At this point, the substance has come to a point, with the very serious criticism and contributions of the opposition at first, but it still holds very serious clues in terms of public administration, in terms of the Justice and Development Party's understanding of government. On the other hand, I mentioned the last day that the public administration in this land -- we have a government tradition, such as Hazreti Omar, which takes root in his testimony, or Sheikh Edebali, which is in the will of Osman Beye. But the Justice and Development Party, if we say so, is the rule. We don't consult anyone, we force them, especially NGOs, occupational organizations. There is no such thing as a friend. Whoever got the vote, his whistle blows, and his words are his. He continues to rule with his understanding. This is an important clause in which the dispute between the Ministry of Health and the Social Security Agency also surfaces conflict between the two institutions in relation to who is in charge of the health management of the two institutions. Social Security Agency says that people have to go on my lists of the drugs they're going to use. It's an argument because in a country, the health authority of that country decides what medication the patients are going to be treated with. Applications are applied for by the Ministry of Health. As a result of these applications, of course, the Ministry of Health will also receive application fees and make a decision. But our Social Security Agency has its own lists, and those lists don't really matter if the license you gave to the Ministry of Health is on my list, I'll pay it back. Until today it was at this point. The SGK is now gearing up, and the SGK says that to get into these lists, you're going to pay me the same way you've been paying the Ministry of Health for tuition. I even said, "It's a bit of a crazy Dumrul" -- aside from the fact that Sheikh Edebali has left us a will in public administration, and so on and so forth. You know, Mad Dumrul is the man at the top of the bridge, in the middle, who finally wants money. The SGK also says: "If it is to enter the repayment list, a company will pay for its entry, pay for its stay, and pay for it if it wants to leave, like the bridge of Mad Dumrul. " But here, thanks to our subcommittee chief, they worked hard on the upper Commission, they contributed to the opposition, at first it didn't exceed 10 minimum wage, it didn't exceed 3 minimum wage to stay. Like, you know, it narrowed down to reasonable limits, but you have to look at it in proportion with the power of the firm. On the one hand, the countries would like to bring their medicine, put it in payback, my citizen, my patient, to be cured of it. Putting a second barrier outside the Ministry of Health and writing money on it, as it is here, is really not wise. When you first looked at it, the chartered pharmacies would come to the SGK to stay there while they were contracting, even close the pharmacy, get paid to leave. He was returned because he contradicted a law other than wrongs, but if we're already faced with the fact that the drugs are to be paid to be on the list of His Majesty's Social Security and to continue, it's not really possible. That's not how it's done in the world, it's with the commoners. Payback systems without Turkish Pharmaceuticals Association, medical examiners, Bar Association, patient rights associations, where they can't come and talk about their problems, payback systems don't work. The interesting thing is, if you look at it in terms of the pharmaceutical industry, there's a $1,900 prize going on, and that's why a lot of drugs don't exist in Turkey or come in as a display, they don't exist for months, they don't exist, they don't exist, they don't exist. There's gotta be a cure for this. For that to happen, the Ministry of Health, where the management of health belongs, has to attract someone to the point where the SGK institution, which has been stripped of its clothes to the Mad Dumrulma, should be drawn to. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit04spe0375par0085	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit04spe0376par0086	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit04spe0375par0087	You want the number of decisions enough, I'll call you, sir. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit05spe0375par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 123th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 52, the ruling of the Manisa MP Free Special and his friends' motion was not sufficient. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't accept... there's enough to decide, it's not accepted. Now, we'll continue negotiations with Bill 639. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends The second sentence of the tenth joke has been changed in the following manner, and the following jokes have been added to the article after its eleventh joke. "However, in accordance with the procedures laid out in Article 72, the products in this scope will be met within the duration of the warranty or the product demands for the same purpose, according to the procedures and basis set by the Institution." "The institution is authorized to set criteria for bill control, to create alternative repayment models and to make assessments and/or audits on these issues, to receive services accordingly. The institution may receive a minimum fee, not to exceed twenty times the minimum price of health care and/or product lists under payment from real or legal persons, to not exceed ten times the minimum fee for remaining on lists of other medical materials and products, except drugs, to not exceed three times the minimum amount of the price reduction demands, and to not exceed the minimum wage of changes in the lists, the processing fee for each transaction can be paid by the public institutional personality, except for contracts based on protocols made with private professions. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this joke are determined by the Institution." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit05spe0377par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit05spe0375par0015	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Iconian MP Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit05spe0378par0020	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The regulation of the material we're talking about is capable of preventing duty and war disability from reaching any ordnance, prosthetics and other healing tools they need. In this respect, other measures must be taken to prevent abuses by companies offered as the basis for the substance. Any orthesis, prosthetics, tools, and equipment required by our veterans and the halp malaise must be given to the institution without any restrictions under Article 73. Therefore, this provision must be removed from the substance. In this article, it is also intended to be paid by those who apply for access to the Social Security Institution's lists, stay on these lists, or make changes or contracts. Social Security found the easy way out. If you're going to apply for access to the website's lists, say, "Give me 20 times the minimum wage."If you're going to stay on the list, give me three times the minimum wage."If you're going to change the list, "give me a minimum wage for each transaction."If you're gonna sign a contract, give me 10 times the minimum wage." It does. In the same way, the government is sending in insurance and pensioners. Health care has been paid for by the insurance and pensioners, the difference fee, the prescription money, the box money, the drug difference money, the accession fee. The AKP government even seeks Mad Dumrul with a candle. The citizen is no longer able to pay for hospitals. The 30 per cent difference rate received from a private hospital in 2008 was increased to 90 per cent in 2010, to 200 per cent in 2013. The pensioners don't even know what their pension is or where they're being cut off because of the cuts. The AKP government has made pensioners in need of a day-to-day. They don't give a shit how to get along with the pensioner's salary. The government's raise to pensioners this month is only 30 to 40 liras. The increase to minimum wage this month is only $45, and the increase is 5.3 per cent. Therefore, he remained under six months of inflation. The AKP crushes employees with inflation at minimum wage. The AKP also crushes officers with inflation. Contractors who receive a monthly increase in salary hikes, 4/Cs, elderly people with 65-year-old pensions, and needy persons are also subjected to inflation. As a result of a failed collective agreement, the 123-dollar pay raise cost the officer dearly. As a result of this collective agreement described as historic success, for the first time in July, officers did not receive a second semester increase. A funny 123 lira raise melted away months ago. Today, employees and pensioners are unable to live on the salary they receive, many are in debt and have trouble making ends meet. I'm asking: What happened to Turkey getting rich? What happened to $10,000 per person? The majority of employees and pensioners receive months below the hunger limit. Is there anything weird about this? Of course, there are others in our country who grow rich. During the AKP period, bribers, smugglers, profiteers, interesteers, contractors, and supporters found their way with public money. They are also under the burden of suffering in these heavy days. Our main objection to this bill is only 5-6 items. But the AKP's administration is pushing for them. In the month of Ramadan, the government must come to justice. In this bag of legislation, the provision to pay the officers the difference of inflation must be included in absolute measure, and the damage done by public officials in the collective contract must be compensated. It would be the best thing for us to do these days to have our pensioners at least have a holiday bonus, to have their faces laughed at, so that no taxes will be taken from minimum wage and their family will be able to make a decent living in the honor of mankind. Let's give the minimum wage workers, the officers, the elderly, the disabled, and the pensioners the news of a holiday here. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit05spe0379par0035	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-07-22sit05spe0380par0037	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit05spe0379par0038	Those who don't agree... We're looking for enough to make a decision. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Numbered Bill of Legislatives, which has been discussed, be removed from the draft text of the "and/or service purchase," in the third joke of Article 52, which stipulates to make a change in Article 73 of the Law. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit05spe0381par0049	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit05spe0379par0050	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Motive... It also paves the way for the purchase of services related to the area of the specified institution. With change, this problem is intended to be resolved. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 52nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four motions on Article 53 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework Article 53 of the current Law Bill 639 be changed in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Recep Special Osman Love Look Osman Boyraz "MEDDE 53 - 5510 is six and a half times the first part of Article 82 of the Law." "Six and a half times more is three times more for Turkish workers who are taken to work abroad by employers who are employed in countries that have no social security agreements." it has been changed." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Numbered Bill of Law under Article 53 of Law 5510 shall be changed to "eight" in Article 53, which stipulates a change in Article 82. İdris Bauken Nazmi Gür Assat Canan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş S. Nevzat Korkmaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu The sentence added at the end of the joke was removed from the text "more than 16 years old" in the first article of Article 53-5510 of the Law. "However, the insurance premium for the insurance people taken by employers to work abroad is three times higher than the daily income for the upper-insurance holders." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under the current 639 Numbers of Business Law and the Amendment to certain Laws and Law Codes and the Law Bills of Mahmut Tanal; the Law Proposals of Erzincan MP Muharrem Iz; the Law Proposals and Plans and Budget Commission Report 53. We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. The Sedef Small, Hasan Kören of Rahmi Love Bulent Kuşoğlu Ali Sarıbaş chooses Vakap Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit05spe0382par0089	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit05spe0379par0090	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who's going to talk? Mr. Little, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit05spe0383par0095	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 53 of the Law Bill 639. I salute your high council. The 32nd article of the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights states that the child will not be employed in matters that will prevent economic exploitation, risk or education, harm his health, mental, spiritual, moral, social development, but that is not the reality in our country. In our country, a million out of 15 million and 250 thousand children between the ages of 6 and 17. We're talking about 1 million children, a number that is much larger than the population of 62 of our provinces, and much more than the sum of the Luxembourg and Malta populations. We're talking about an economic structure that acts in a way that violates the child's rights and mortgages the children's future. We're talking about a country where the bill is paid not only to our children, but also to our future. Dear lawmakers, this problem cannot be solved by the existence of sufficient legal infrastructure because Parliament has fulfilled its mandate, passed the law. According to the Timed Policy and Program Framework for the Avoidance of Children's Work in 2005, in 2015, the worst forms of child labor were intended to be wiped out altogether. Six months to 2015, a million children are still working as a cheap labor force. As in many areas, there are errors in the application, as in the fact that the legislation is sufficient, the planning of action is not enough to solve the problem. First of all, we need to eliminate the elements that child labor has been funded by. The most fundamental, most important reason for child labor is poverty. Child labor cannot be completely eliminated without eradicating poverty, reducing the effects of poverty on the poor. And in our country, there is already deep poverty and income injustice. Where there's such a deep income and injustice and poverty, there's one thing that doesn't exist, it's a social state. No parent wants their children to have to work before they complete their body growth, but if they are poor, they are left poor, they are unemployed, they are unable to earn a living, they have to work for their children if they can't get enough and free education. Because in this case, the government can't do enough work, the state can't be a social state. It must not be forgotten that an unresolved state is the main part of the problem and the primary carrier. Dear lawmakers, the most important wealth of our day is education, dynamic, well-read generations, human capital. International Labour Organization reports are strongly recommending that they invest in free education in governments to prevent child labor. Because of poverty, our children lack the right to education, the transfer of poverty from generation to generation, and the creation of a vicious cycle of poverty. The only thing that can break this spiral is education, but what I'm talking about here is education, scientific, in accordance with the needs and facts of our time, that doesn't try to mold our children into a specific pattern. Everyone in this country deserves to live well. It is the basic duty of this House to keep our people alive in human circumstances. But for what it's worth, we have to say children first. If we don't say children first, this country will have no future, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit05spe0384par0104	Thank you, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit05spe0385par0107	Roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit05spe0384par0108	You have a roll call. Yes, sir. Mr. Altay, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Öz, Mr. Sarı, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Seşam, Mr. Trust, Mr. Özgüm, Mr. Onur, Mr. Acar, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Öner, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Ekshi. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a five-minute recess, Mr. Lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0384par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 123th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 639 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0386par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0384par0005	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0386par0008	Thank you. Mr. President, we just received word from the news portals. According to this report, the Turkish Airlines flight to Tel Aviv-İstanbul, the two planes on the İstanbul-Tel Aviv expedition did not land at Ben Gurion Airport; they were not downloaded, they did not land, we do not know about it.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0387par0010	For all the airlines...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0386par0011	However, at the ruling party's group meeting today, the president said, shouldn't we send planes there? I remember very well. We're asking Mr. Secretary for information from the government on this matter. Furthermore, I asked the government today around 4:00 p.m. who had martyred our soldiers in Suruç, and Ceylanınar. It's been eight hours, and we haven't heard back. Woe to the citizens of this country if these issues are not mentioned to lawmakers in the Turkish Grand National Assembly or the MPs do not learn about them. I'm supplying, we're expecting a statement from the government on these matters.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0388par0015	Thank you, Mr. Altay. I know, Mr. President... Here you go. Mr. President, today, we know that many airlines have canceled their flight to Israel, and we know that, but let's get the information on Turkish Airlines out of our friends and inform our Parliament immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0389par0021	Any information on the soldiers, Mr. Secretary? I don't have one right now.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0388par0026	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends The sentence added at the end of the joke was removed from the text "more than 16 years old" in the first article of Article 53-5510 of the Law. "However, the insurance premium for the insurance premiums taken by employers to work abroad is three times higher than the daily income for the upper border insurance holders. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0390par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0388par0033	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Yes, Iğdır MP Sinan Okan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0391par0038	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 53 of the bag law that we're meeting today, which is called Bill 639, which takes seven minutes for the full name to be read. I salute your High Council. In the relevant article, we are considering the removal of a declaration of law-writing technique that is over 16 years old. This age limit had already been lifted in relation to the amendment to the Asgarial Tax Administration, published in April 19, 2014 and the Official Gazette 28977. Therefore, if this age limit has been lifted, if such a distinction has been lifted under the age of 16 or over the age of 16, then there is no point in re-declaring it. It doesn't matter if he's less than 16 years old or older in the country, as in the country, we think it's best for us to get this notice removed. Other than that, regarding the relevant substance, we only object to the writing technique of matter, we have no objection to its content. But speaking of which, I'd like to point out that since we're talking about something that concerns our citizens abroad or businessmen working abroad, as a member of the Foreign Affairs Commission, and for other reasons, as a friend of yours who often goes abroad and comes abroad, I have to say that there is discrimination against our businessmen abroad. We're dealing with a group of businessmen abroad, especially from yesterday, who you call brothers and sisters, who have formed a group of businessmen there, who have completely ignored other businessmen who have been there, which means that we're in a situation like burning down quilts. Of course, there may be those who think parallelly with your power, there may be those who don't think parallelly, but I have to tell you that it's even more difficult for our businessmen to be completely ignored, that our businessmen there have not been treated, and that our ambassadors are not allowed to participate in their activities, and that it's a total wholesaler understanding, and that the work our businessmen have already done abroad under difficult circumstances. Instead, I think it would be more useful to look at our businessmen there and their roof organizations there and to think about how Turkey's competitive conditions should be improved, before we see an institution of Turkey and use it to domestic politics here. We also see that a number of activities abroad are multiplying during the presidential election process. Now, from here, on behalf of the government, you go abroad with government money, and it's called offshore activity. But it is the right of the orphan to buy plane tickets and take the child's right to daily tuition, the state bureaucracy that goes abroad with the right of the orphan, and Mr. Prime Minister to discriminate between the Turkish community there, as it were, as it were, as a fitness, to divide our businessmen and citizens there into camps, as well as the presidential propaganda is being carried out abroad with government money. Dear friends, this is forbidden. On Ramadan day, I declare: it is forbidden for an orphan to commit presidential propaganda abroad with state's money, to eat state property, to embezzle state property. Mr. Prime Minister, who's propaganda for the presidency, is also at a forbidden dinner, but along with him, the bureaucrats who have signed off on foreign missions in a crowd of committees are also at a forbidden meal, eating orphans' rights, embezzling state property. Thus, some work is being done in Turkey, and shoe boxes are being filled in Turkey, but let's not reflect it abroad. You've polarized people enough in Turkey, let's not polarize our people abroad, and let's not sacrifice the state budget created by the right of an orphan to presidential propaganda... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm saying we don't want to lose the right to an orphan. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0392par0048	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party of Konya Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law's Decisions, Oktay Ökki's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and İzmir MP Oktay Öçalalalı; Heromarash MP Mesut Akçayoğlu's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Party's Party; Mehmet Milliş's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister and the Minister's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Party's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party;
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0393par0049	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0392par0050	You want the number of decisions enough, I'll call you, sir. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Let's do it with the electronics, please. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the current 639 Numbered Bill of Law shall be changed to the "eight" of the "three" in Article 53, which stipulates a change in Article 82 of Law 5510. Nazmi Gür (Van) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0394par0061	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0392par0062	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Motive... In an effort to reduce the labour costs of local companies and boost competitiveness abroad, insurance premiums for workers abroad are expected to be based on three times more than 6.5 times the minimum wage. This kind of change in the interest of capital means the rights of employees. The AKP's capitalist attitude is an attack on the rights of labour. The change aims to improve the conditions of workers working abroad. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework Article 53 of the current Law Bill 639 be changed in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends "MEDDE 53-5510 is six and a half times the first part of Article 82 of the Law." "Six and a half times more is three times more for Turkish workers who are taken to work abroad by employers who are employed in countries that have no social security agreements." it has been changed." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0395par0074	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0392par0075	Government? We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0396par0077	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0392par0078	I'm having it read. In order to boost the competitiveness of employers taking jobs in non-signed countries, the bill in the bill on reducing the minimum wage to three times the amount of insurance for workers taken abroad to work at workplaces has been intended to be reorganised in a way that does not include signed countries. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit Article 53 to your votes: Those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 53 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 54: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the 639 Numbered Bill of Law shall be changed under Article 54, which stipulates that Article 87 of the Law shall be added to it. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 639 Numbered Business Law and the 54th Charter of the Plan and Budget Commission Report on Changes to Some Laws and Laws. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Bornt Kuşoglu Ali Sarıbaş Tula Köse Vahaap Selects Ilhan Demirözı Ali Haydar Proposes The first joke of Article 87 of Article 54-5510 added the bell below. "g) International Student Evaluation Board decision to grant scholarship status to international students while the International Student Evaluation Board continues, or the institution appointed by the President of the Foreign Turkish and Relative Communitys," Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0397par0107	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0392par0108	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who will speak from the Republican People's Party?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0398par0111	Ali Haydar Proposes.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0392par0112	Isparta MP Ali Haydar Öner. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0399par0115	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we're living a freak. We're interviewing a text number 639, a proposal or a bill or something. I timed it, six minutes twenty-eight seconds short of the law. If it's read, it'll be twice the name of the law for a five-minute speech. Who's causing this freak, guys? This must be a serious legislature. Such informal regulations do not suit this Parliament as lawmakers who have an obligation to serve our nation, who voted for us. Let's do things that suit us, and the citizen will give the MPs the proper value. Dear friends, the 54th article predicts the price of bonuses. The institution, which sends students abroad, will pay the premium price for those who receive scholarships. Our wish is that those who deserve a scholarship and those who receive scholarships and those who give scholarships may atone for their earnings. Dear friends, this law is known as the law of Soma. But, who put this stuff here? This law is a bag of laws, add what you can. What's the hurry? Wait. It's the law. AKP officials blame the opposition. They're both guilty and powerful. Because, by this law, the funerals of the Soma martyrs, the sufferings of their relatives, the rights of their children were taken hostage. Soma orphans have not been shown the sensitivity to ease their pain at once. The law is being held hostage. The rights have been made hostage to the unlawful arrangements. The consciences have been taken prisoner, the ransom price has been determined to make the unlawful lawful. The injustices caused by privatisations over five years have not been eased by the bones of the martyrs, and the suffering of the martyrs and their orphans, before they have been legally encased in the body of the law. That's unfair. This is the right of the orphan who took his report card to his father's grave, and a postponement. A law that violates a toilet is not a law that is just. Honourable MPs, those who build the meadows and graze the sheep and oxen in the sheep's meadows, become deserving shepherds. The TBM, which led to such injustice, can take the title of the constitutional body, which violates the law, and its members can be accused of being lawmakers who are not faithful to their oaths. Those who make these arrangements, those who approve of these arrangements, cannot escape the legal responsibilities of their actions. Those who play these ugly games for the presidential election, those who hand out pride and rant on the eve of the election, can't see the good they're doing, I hope they won't. He says that Ali was a point of knowledge, and the illiterates multiplied it. In a few days, it was possible to ease the pain of the Somals, to quickly heal the working conditions of workers, especially those who worked in coal mines, but with this opportunity, the work was extended by all kinds of evil regulations, privatisations, along with the meres, unfair regulations of officers and forests. What else is to be cleared of 301 people? It's called exploiting the wounded. It is the duty of the doctors to ease the suffering of the patients as quickly as possible, as well as to heal the social, social, legal injuries. I'd like to pay tribute to the lawmakers who have done their duty in full and justice.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0400par0124	Thank you, Mr. Proposer.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0401par0125	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit06spe0400par0126	You're asking for a sufficient number of decisions. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0400par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 123th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 54, there was not enough decision in the vote of Isparta MP Ali Haydar Öner and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... all those in denial... all those in favor... [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] I'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. Now, we'll continue negotiations with Bill 639. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0402par0016	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0400par0017	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0403par0018	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0400par0019	Kütahya MP Alim Ik. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0404par0022	Mr. President, I've been promised a amendment motion on the Article 54/4 of Law Bill 639, which is being discussed. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers predict that Article 5510 and the General Health Insurance Act will be added to Article 87, titled "Primal Payment." It's a clause that determines who will pay social security premiums for scholarships for scholarship students working abroad when they're on scholarships. It's a fair offer. As a group, we think that we agree, but with this joke added to our proposal, it will make it simpler and more meaningful. For him, this motion has been made. I would like to take this opportunity to share with you that the law must be reorganised in accordance with the demands of our citizen on several matters. I would especially like to say that we benefit from the addition of an arrangement for restructuring debts, such as the solution to the problems of paying the property tax, electricity and water money, which many of our citizens expect forgiveness from. At least we think it's appropriate to treat this wound with some positive provisions that will help all of 77 million. Another important demand is the demand of citizens who are insured and who believe that if they are able to pay insurance and pay premiums, they can't pay premiums, then they will be compensated. This is also true, and we believe it is correct that many of our people, our citizens, should be given these arrangements that we are talking about, in this bill, where there is some sort of special arrangement for everyone. Another important issue is that he's invested in insurance premiums, but he can't benefit from retirement because he's underage, so we're afraid that it's appropriate to include an arrangement that he and his family are victims of medical expenses, and that he's willing to rectify it. At the very least, it would be appropriate for those people of age to benefit from their health expenses and benefit from their medical expenses during this waiting period. Earlier, Mr. Minister of Labour and Social Security said that at least we can't reduce our age, but we're considering an arrangement to address this loss. I hope that this bag of legislation is in order. Dear lawmakers, another important issue is that we haven't been able to answer the question of the fate of our fellow consular workers and citizens, in the hands of a terrorist organization known as the Islamic State of Iraq Damascus, which we have been unable to get answers from time to time, but known simply as ISIS. Yesterday, Mr. Faruk Çelik said he agreed with my opinion that this organization is a terrorist organization, but I hope the Prime Minister didn't hear that, or I wouldn't want any harm to come to him either. But he joined this part of the question, and he couldn't answer the question. What is the fate of these consulate employees? Where are they kept? How, for God's sake, will the Justice and Development Party government save citizens in other countries if they can't save their own citizens? Who would believe that? If you can't save your own citizen, unfortunately, from an organization that you've been feeding for years, it's been made clear about a calendar close to the presidential election. If you're not responding to his claims, you probably don't believe yourself either. I await your support of our motion, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0405par0034	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the 639 Numbered Bill of Law shall be changed under Article 54, which stipulates that Article 87 of the Law shall be added to it. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0406par0041	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0405par0042	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0407par0043	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0405par0044	I'm reading the reason: The change is intended to make the text more clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 54 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 54 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 55: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's; İstanbul MP Izzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP İzlüt Aslanoğlu's Party's Democratic Party; İstanbul MP's Democratic Party's MP and İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party of Ministers; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı's MP's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeşt Çeçeçı; Ankara's MP's Minister's Party's Democratic Party; Ankara's Party's Democratic Party's Minister and MP's Democratic Party's Democratic Party's Democratic Party (HDP) and İstanbul MP İçeçeçeçeçeçı; İstanbul MP İçeçeçıçı; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP's Party (TK) and İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Democratic Party's Party; Ankara MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party's Party of İstanbul MP's Party; Ankara MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party; Ankara MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Minister of İstanbul (HDP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Party's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party of Parliament's Minister of Parliament; Ankara MP's Democratic Party's Minister of Turkey (HDP (HDP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party' We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Hasan Köse of Rahmi Love Ali Sarıbaş İlhan Demiröz Bkent Kuşoğlu The following joke was added to Article 88 of the Law 55-5510 after the twenty-first joke. "The difference determined by the institution if the default of payment on the premium and bonus payment is later determined by insurance, provided it does not result from the intentional, defect, error and/or misleading declaration of corporate persons with the policy holders is that the penalty and delay increase will not be imposed according to the second joke of Article 89 from the date of notice." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the current 639 Numbered Bill of Law shall be changed into "no increase will be applied" according to the second joke of Article 89, which stipulates a change in Article 88 of Law number 55. İdris Bauken Erol Dora İstiye Birtane Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0408par0068	It will be (2/2041), no (2/2042).
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0409par0069	Okay, correction, we're subtracting (2/2042). [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Diyarbakır MP Mine Lök White]] ...2/2051, 2/2056, 2/2057, 2/2065, 2/2069, 2/2083, 2/2146, 2/2156, 2/2158, 2/2176, 2/2178, 2/2186, 2/2187, 2/2190, 2/21191, 2/2192, 2/2198) We propose and propose the change of the 55th article. Erkan Akçay Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Ali Öz Alim Iklam Yusuf Halaçoğlu The following joke is added to Article 88 of Article 55-5510, after the twenty-first joke. "The difference in debt related to the primer, which was later determined by the institution that the payment on the premium and bonus payment was paid by insurance, provided it was not caused by the intentional, flaw, error or misleading declaration of corporate citizens, is that from the date of notification, the domestic producer price index (YI-FE) will be imposed by the rate of monthly change of tariffs and delays."
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0410par0078	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0411par0079	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0410par0080	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0412par0081	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0410par0082	Mersin MP Ali Oz. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0413par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding the amendment to Article 55 of the Law on the Amendment to some Laws and Laws Act 639. I salute your high council. Now, it's actually a very reasonable and appropriate arrangement in Turkey, which is predicted to be replaced with this clause, especially when it has completed its social security premium, when it comes to retirement, at the point where our people face some problems at the point of retirement. For example, your retirement period is up, you'll retire. All of a sudden, in relation to the institution, years ago, you were owed a debt to you in the past with the lack of a bonus deposit, and so, until today, you might have had to build up that debt and eventually pay a very large amount of money to retire. This clause is a very appropriate arrangement, which all groups do not oppose in the Commission, since it is an arrangement that requires that you be in debt from that day forward and only pay it, if such an institution really has such a self-inflicted error, whenever it has been delivered to you. Of course, Social Security is actually a huge roof. Besides Social Security, I think it's more accurate to look into the social security system as a system. In our country, as of 2008, after the social security system's gathering under one roof, unfortunately, the Social Insurance Institution is the most useful with the changing laws, and we see that the members of the Retirement Chest and the BUG-KUR are unfortunately unable to make much use of these changes. What I meant to say was that some of the things that we've given in particular as a law proposition, in this bag of legislation, we'd be really happy to have those offers with us. I would also like to point out that there is also a lack of small-income, small- and medium-sized tradesmen, agricultural BUG-KUR, and BUG-KURL people who have been very protected and waiting for arrangements to be made as Parliament. An insured employee may have had the opportunity to take a breath, at least for those members of the Social Insurance Agency to at least see the way he was unemployed for a certain period of time, if he had invested in his employer's premiums on time and had been unemployed, but I really think it's the duty of Parliament, especially for the small and middle-soldier, who has a great stake in the country's economy, especially in the desire to burn its own oil, with a similar arrangement of the BUG-KUR industry. In fact, I think it would be correct to give them an opportunity to increase the insurance premium at a certain rate, to create a good pool, and to collect themselves in the amount of time they've been declared, given the amount that they've been declared, the amount that they've been owed, the amount that they've been owed, the amount that they've been owed, the amount that they've been given, and the amount that they've been given, the amount that they've been given, the amount that they've been given, the amount that they've been given, the amount that they've been paid, the amount that they've been paid, the amount that they've been paid. Of course, in this bill, we see within the bag of law that the vast majority of the regulations made are intended to increase the revenues of the Social Security Agency, as I've expressed in my previous talks, so to speak, to be able to extract milk from the goat. However, I think it's a shame that we all have to be treated by the state when we're all in the squares, so that the government can live. If it requires even large sums of money for the survival of even one individual, there are some problems that people who belong to the Social Security Agency have suffered under repayment or social security. So, in this regard, I'm hoping that just to be able to treat some of the diseases that require major costs, by taking more responsibility for refunds, not just as an institution, but as a social security system that actually concerns all of this country's people. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0414par0096	Thank you, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0415par0097	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0414par0098	You're asking for a sufficient number of decisions. I submit the motion to your votes: those who agree... those who refuse... there seems to be not enough of a decision.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0415par0101	Where is it, how many are there? No, there aren't 80.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0414par0102	I'll give you a minute, then. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, and the motion has been rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the current 639 Numbered Bill of Law shall be changed into "no increase will be applied" according to the second joke of Article 89, which stipulates a change in Article 88 of Law number 55. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0416par0112	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0414par0113	I'm reading the reason: With change, the difference from accidentally missing bonus deposits is intended to be collected without a raise after the notification date. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's; İstanbul MP Izzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP İzlüt Aslanoğlu's Party's Democratic Party; İstanbul MP's Democratic Party's MP and İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party of Ministers; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı's MP's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeşt Çeçeçı; Ankara's MP's Minister's Party's Democratic Party; Ankara's Party's Democratic Party's Minister and MP's Democratic Party's Democratic Party's Democratic Party (HDP) and İstanbul MP İçeçeçeçeçeçı; İstanbul MP İçeçeçıçı; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP's Party (TK) and İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Democratic Party's Party; Ankara MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party's Party of İstanbul MP's Party; Ankara MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party; Ankara MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Minister of İstanbul (HDP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Party's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party of Parliament's Minister of Parliament; Ankara MP's Democratic Party's Minister of Turkey (HDP (HDP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party' We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Hasan Ören (Manisa) and his friends The following joke was added to Article 88 of the Law 55-5510 after the twenty-first joke. "The difference determined by the institution if the default of payment on the premium and bonus payment is later determined by insurance, provided it does not result from the intentional, defect, error and/or misleading declaration of corporate persons with the policy holders is that the penalty and delay increase will not be imposed according to the second joke of Article 89 from the date of notice." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0417par0124	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0414par0125	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0418par0126	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0414par0127	Manisa MP Hasan Ören, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0419par0129	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, really, don't be stubborn anymore. Today, 70 million people from Soma, our tradesmen, our artists, even Mr. Bkent Arinc, are waiting for their bill of law to come out about them, which is in their best interest, as Mr. Blent Arizç said in Elazýg. One simple thing the main opposition party, the opposition party, has said: take 10 out of 149 articles, take it out in a day, take it out in two days. If you want the same ingredients, bring them back again, you have a majority, let's get them out. Why are you being stubborn? Why do you claim it? Look, my friends, Soma, after these accidents, for the first time in your hearts, it will be a holiday, candy Day, in your conscience. (CAR PARTY turns to Ramadan Day) Since we were kids, we've known it as a holiday because our fathers, our mothers, our grandparents gave us candy, but it's Friday Day, that's right, that's right. But know ye that there shall be no Ramadan in Ramadan, neither shall the fathers be able to go in the morning prayer, nor shall the fathers go in the morning prayer, neither shall the parents prepare a table for the father, and for the child, who returned from the morning prayer with his child; but they shall set their eyes on the door, that their hands may be kissed. Come on, guys, if you take 10 out of here, you can bring in 10 articles in a week, what is it you're so stubborn about?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0420par0132	Yesterday, it was five, and today it went up to ten.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0419par0133	You just brought it in, you said 61, you added 106 to the subcommittee, it came to the Budget Plan Commission, you raised it to 148+1. He begged our friends to separate Soma, to separate the taxes. It's not true if you're trying to feed the people you're going to protect within these 149, which is what you're going to bring back if you're not really afraid of anything. Look, we're all going on this blessed day in the evening. If the waiter were to approach us when we arrived, bring us a bean, a rice, a bowl. When we say, "If the waiter came to us two minutes later, if he had put it all on a plate, what would your reaction be when he put it in front of you as AKP MP?" Your reaction would be: Either you leave the table, leave the table, or you scold the waiter who brought it in, or you call his boss and you complain to him.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0421par0134	In comparison...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0419par0135	But you never say how beautiful you've done it. You put it all on a plate, that's what I wanted. That's what you're doing. What's the difference?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0421par0136	The analogy is wrong, not at all.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0422par0137	The analogy is wrong.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0419par0138	So, if you take out 5-6 substances, 7 articles, other than these issues that concern this community, that's what happened in Soma. We have to prioritize these Soma materials by doing a little empathy, by asking yourself, yes, by taking them out. After that, tax issues -- so many people are waiting -- insurance premiums, BUG-KUR debt, tax debt -- are true, and we believe you did it right. All of our friends have supported the Plan and Budget on this, but what's the rush, and why do you feel the need to put the others in it?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0422par0139	Why are you being stubborn?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0419par0140	So, if you bring these as another package, when you present this package here to us, do you not bring it because you know that 90 percent of the people living in Turkey will object when you present it to us? You're bringing in a law on privatisation. Who's it for? I'm going to talk about it in the next article, and I'm going to tell you, there are judicial decisions, and you're not doing what's necessary, and now here you're pressing charges, and you're complaining to the public. What are you guys complaining about?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0423par0141	We're not complaining!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0419par0142	Is it not shameful or just what you do? Do you have to make us eat it all on a plate, feed it to these people?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0423par0143	Do you have to do that?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0419par0144	Ask your consciences again, friends. The group is able to tell you, the prime minister can tell you, but even though the Prime Minister has appointed you to come here, the people have chosen you, you have a responsibility to the public... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you have a responsibility to Soma. Do as you must. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0424par0149	Thank you, Mr. Kören. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party MP Mustafa Kalaycı and MP Oktay Ökal's Party; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetlı Group MP Okvelı Başçalı MP Okkılı Akal's Party; İstanbul MP Mesut Dedeoğlu's Party's Party Party Party Party Group Minister and İzmir MP Oktay Öçalı's Party's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkıkılı and Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Party of Parliament and Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party (Es Party) Minister (Es Party) Minister of Parliament (Es Party of Parliament) and Minister's Minister's Minister's Party of Parliament and Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party for the Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party for the Minister's Minister's Party for the Minister's Party for the Minister's Party for the Minister's Party of Parliament of Parliament for the Minister of Parliament of Parliament and Minister of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament and Minister of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Ministers of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Ministers of Parliament and the Council of Parliament and the Council of Ministers of Parliament of State of Ministers of Parliament and the Council of State of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Parliament of Parliament of Ministers, Minister of Parliament and the Council of Parliament and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Parliament of Parliament of Ministers of Parliament and the Council of Parliament and the Council of Parliament and the Council of Parliament and the Council of Ministers Manisa MP Erkan Akçajın; Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı and MP Oktay Ökalli; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetlı Party Group MP Okkılı Başçalı Akal; Şeşılı MP Mesut Dedeoğlu and Millıtılılı Party Party Party Party Party Party Party (ÇTÜTİÇTİÇTİÇTİÇTÜÇÜÇÜÇÜÇÜÇÜÇÜÜÇÜÇÜÇÜÇÜlüklük, ÜÇÜlçılçılçı Ü Ülçüklı Üsılçüklı Ülükı Ülüklı Üncı Ü Üsı Üncıçıçı Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Üncı Üçı Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Üncı Üsı Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Üsı Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Manisa MP Erkan Akçajın; Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı and MP Oktay Ökalli; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetlı Party Group MP Okkılı Başçalı Akal; Şeşılı MP Mesut Dedeoğlu and Millıtılılı Party Party Party Party Party Party Party (ÇTÜTİÇTİÇTİÇTİÇTÜÇÜÇÜÇÜÇÜÇÜÇÜÜÇÜÇÜÇÜÇÜlüklük, ÜÇÜlçılçılçı Ü Ülçüklı Üsılçüklı Ülükı Ülüklı Üncı Ü Üsı Üncıçıçı Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Üncı Üçı Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Üncı Üsı Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Üsı Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0425par0150	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0424par0151	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor... all those in denial... all those in favor... [["There is, there is." No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Their voices]] Let's vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 55 to your votes: Those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 55 is accepted. There are three motions on item 56, which I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Numbered Bill of Law shall be replaced as "14 months" in Article 56, which stipulates a change in Article 97 of the Law. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Sırrıyya Önder Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Dikal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP İzket Celan's Party; İstanbul MP İzkat Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadır Durmaz and Parliament's Party's Minister's Minister's Party of Law; Ankara MP İzktay Köçeşılı; İstanbul's Party's Minister's Minister's Democratic Party; Mehmet Çağalıtın's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Çağeşeşeşı Akçı; İstanbul's Party's Minister's Minister's Party; Ankara MP İşt Çeçı İçıçıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP and İstanbul MP's Party's MP's MP's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party (Eğeşeşeşıııılı İçıçıçıçıııçıçıçıçıçıçı MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party); İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party; Ankara MP's MP's MP's Party's MP's MP's Party's MP's MP's Minister of İstanbul MP's Minister of Parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Minister's MP's MP's MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Minister of Parliament's Minister of İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The sixth month was changed in the form of ten months, in the fourth chapter of Article 97 of the Law 56-5510. Moses Pine Chooses the Vacay of Love Hasan Ören İzzet Cetin Bkent Kuşoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı The "six months" of Article 97 of Law 56-5510 has been changed in the form of "eight months" and the fifth joke as follows. ▪ What the general health insurance and care providers receive will fall if they are not asked within five years of the date of birth. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0426par0182	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0424par0183	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0427par0184	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0424par0185	Heromarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0428par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been sworn in as the National Party of Action for Change on Article 56 of Bag 639. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, this bill is designed to give new rights to our mineral martyrs and subcontractors who lost their lives in Soma. In accordance with public demands, the number of articles of the first bag of legislation prepared as 61 articles has continued to increase in the Commission. The government, who had the opportunity to work for miners and subcontractors, has also ignored the voice of the opposition and added efforts against the citizen in the bag. The government is trying to impose laws on the citizens. According to this, the government, which brings new rights in some areas, also takes away the rights available in some areas. Even if the bag is a court order with the law, it's still in the way of public officials returning to their former duties. Under this arrangement, the job security and judicial security of 3 million officers were taken from them. After the 17th and 25 December bribery and corruption operation, officers who have been dismissed will not be able to return to their former duties, even if they have a court order after this law. Mr. President, good lawmakers, such an arrangement is not acceptable. There is no such arrangement in any democratic country. There is independence of the judiciary in democratic countries. Judicial decisions are final and enforced. There should never be a judgment based on the individual and the institution. Instead of the rule of law, the law of the superior is required. From here, we warn the government that this arrangement is against both law and human rights. The government must desist from this arrangement immediately. Officers' earned rights must be restored to them. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, and, for the first time this year, the government's been given a raise, were no different from this month's inflation increase. This is entirely to blame for the government and an ally union. This union has signed a ridiculous 123-dollar raise by the government to officers, which is a raise of $2.00 per day. Officers have a huge loss due to increased inflation. We expect to be compensated by the government. Mr. President, I'm afraid that the work on our fellow lawmakers and mine martyrs and subcontractors is not enough to meet expectations. These arrangements have been prepared far from expectations. The government, left at the mercy of the living room in the mines, ruled out the death of the Soma disaster and the death of the miners who lost their lives and did not earn their pensions, while working on the payroll of their relatives as well as those who lost their lives in other mining accidents. The families of Zonguldak Kozlu, Karadon, Edirne Keşan and Balıkesir Dursunbey, who lost their lives in mining accidents, did not benefit from this arrangement. So, the government ruled out the family of the mine martyrs who died on May 13, 2014, in Zonguldak, a day later, on 14 May 2014, lost their lives in Zonguldak. Along with these, our nine mission martyrs who were still buried at the Kahramanmarash Afshin-Elbistan Termic Plant were left uncontained, even though they were still buried in the ground, with a martyr's salary or an additional payment. It is not acceptable for such two separate practices to be carried out between two painful people who live on the same geography and share the same fate. With such practices, the government does not share the pain, but further. We invite the government to return from this error immediately. With these thoughts and feelings, I humbly salute the High Council, asking for the acceptance of our proposal for a change.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0429par0198	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Common Law Proposals and Plans and Budget Commission Report 56. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Article 56-5510 has been changed into Article 4 of Article 97 in the form of the subsidiary of the sixth month. Hasan Ören (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0430par0206	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0429par0207	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0431par0208	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0429par0209	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0432par0210	Hasan Ören.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0429par0211	Manisa MP Hasan Ören, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0433par0213	My dear friends, nothing is too late. I'm going to ask the group's deputy presidents, the AKP's deputy leader, again: "Please, let's finish these laws that 70 million expect by Friday, let's compromise." The condition of reconciliation is to talk. See, there are 5-6 clauses in 149 that we want, I'm guessing, and there are 5-6 clauses in the mp, not all 10 clauses: The 97th article on the Union of Bars of Turkey, the 100th article on the extradition of state officials, the 112th article on privatisation of the Mera Law, the 1215th article on municipal properties. Take it off in a week, really, when we're talking one-on-one, you're all okay, what happens if you leave in a week? We've been here 50 days, guys. It's a pleasure to work here, millions of people want to enter this temple, this Parliament, it can't. We've been given such a beautiful honor. You're not afraid of work, we're not afraid of it. It's not how long we're going to work, it's not how long we're going to work, it's what 70 million is waiting for, it's what's about him, it's that the arrangements on his behalf come out as soon as possible. Well, my dear, you can eat them in between. So, how do you want to eat them? The demand and file notification date for this privatisation is 27/02/2014, privatisation of the Meat and Fish Foundation in Manisa: What is 112? There is no procedure for the resuscitation of these institutions, except in accordance with the agreements on the privatisations that have been made five years since the completion of deviral and delivery proceedings. What did the Supreme Court Attorney say now? The above summary information was examined in the written file. He said the defendants were in charge of replacing the third article of the contract, and that they were involved in the sale of the Manisa Meat and Fish Association Combined with the bargain process, that other companies underwent heavy conditions to minimize their participation in the tender during this sale, and that they allowed the tender to be won by MAY-ET firm, and that they later committed a violation of the contract's decision on the sale and transfer of the contract, allowing it to be declared that it was a violation of the sale and disparagement of the contract -- the current information report on 30/9/2009/09/2009, and that the entire case was under investigation, and that there was an indiscrimination of the law. Says who? Attorney General Ayhan Aygün of the Supreme Court. Well, it's been five years, so what do we do now? What are we gonna do? You bring this law, and you tell us: "Eat rice, tea, dried beans on a plate." How are we going to eat it? Neither can you. But if you have any claims about it, if you're talking about your right, you can come and tell it to the public in another package. It's not too late for anything. People are waiting for these laws. Deputy Group Presidents, with regard to these laws, if it is necessary to ask permission from people on you or if it is necessary to give them a proper briefing, it is wise to do so. Five points. Any objections? What happens if you do? Day 50... Since the Plan and Budget Commission failed, the Parliament worked for a week and a half -- my dear friend knows, our Manisa MP Uğur Aydemir -- and since we failed to download it to the General Assembly for a week and a half, the General Assembly was empty. Well, what's so unreasonable about that, fellas? And you go back to society, and you say, "The opposition parties are blocking the law." If you love God, ask your consciences on this blessed day. Really, when you hold this...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0434par0217	Allah does not forgive, Allah does not forgive!
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0433par0218	...if you're suggesting that the opposition has a minor flaw in this matter, I'm referring you to the public. I will refer to God, and he will not be able to do it, and there is no account of him; there, where we transfer him, and where we transfer him, and in the other place. But I transfer it to the people in Turkey who are waiting for this law to come out. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0435par0221	Thank you, Mr. Kören. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Numbered Bill of Law shall be replaced as "14 months" in Article 56, which stipulates a change in Article 97 of the Law. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0436par0228	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0435par0229	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0437par0230	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0435par0231	Motive... In the current case, if the bank does not withdraw its pension for six months, the monthly payment is suspended and the right to health is suspended. The monthly suspension period for pensioners, widows and orphans is expected to increase from six months to one year. However, it is not long enough to prevent the victims. It is intended to extend this time with change. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 56th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four motions on Article 57: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that subdivisions of Law Bill 639 be changed in the form of three. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework of Law Bill 639 shall be changed in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special The following jokes are added to Article 103 of the Law 57-5510. "The payment of the health care server's compensations in the institution's interest may be halted by the appropriate opinion of the commission consisting of at least three inspectors and the approval of the Chief of Guidance and Investigation until further investigation is concluded, depending on the findings conducted by the office inspectors. If there is no investigation or investigation within six months, the cease-fire decision will automatically be lifted, and it will continue to pay its dues as of this date. If they are to receive payment by the end of the six-month period, they will not be paid until the investigation or investigation is concluded. However, for each of the health care server's legal debts in the institution's interest, the decision to stop Article No. 6183 of the First Article of the Law, in accordance with those listed in the 2nd and 3rd terms of the Articles of the Law, is removed by the institutional unit, which implements the decision and pays its dues in the institution's interest. A new contract will not be made until the term of dissolution has been completed and the term of dissolution has been completed, depending on the verbs of the institution, which have been terminated by the institution's terminated health care server. In the event of the return of the health care server, the institution, which causes the annulment, is not contracting with the health care provider who takes over without collection and without a minimum year of dissolution. Invoices for examinations and procedures of the health care server, which has not been signed or has been terminated, are not paid. As long as it is seen in the Law No. 5237 that qualified fraud has been committed in the course of a determined court order, the verbs will not be contracted with the same health care server or the health service server, or the health services server, which they later associate with, in the case of which the physicians have committed them, for at least three years. Expecting a final court decision will not prevent the implementation of the terms of the termination of the agreements on the purchase of health care. The health care provider and/or physicians who perform qualified fraud verbs stated in Law 5237 are informed of the arbitraryness of all jobs and procedures necessary, including the cancellation of their license. Invoices for examinations and procedures from physicians who have committed qualified fraud verbs and caused institutional damage will not be paid by at least three years." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 639 Orders Numbered Bill 57. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man İzzet Cetin Mehmet Ali Sesam Sedef Küçük The following jokes are added to Article 103 of the Law 57-5510. "In the course of review or investigation conducted by the office inspectors, the payment of health care servers from the institution's health care providers may be halted in proportion to the expected to risk collection, if the commission of at least three inspectors is expected to take risks, and will not exceed three months with the approval of the chairman of Guidance and Investigation. If there is no investigation or investigation within three months, the cease-fire decision will automatically be lifted, and it will continue to pay its dues as of this date. If they are to receive payment by the end of the three-month period, they will not be paid until the investigation or investigation is concluded. However, for each of the health care server's legal debts in the institution's interest, the decision to stop Article 6183 of Articles 1st and 3rd of the Law will be removed by the institutionary unit, which implements this decision, provided guarantees are made. A contract is not made with the same health care provider until the term of dissolution has been completed and the term of dissolution has been completed. However, there is no contract with the same health care provider and physicians if the practice of qualified fraud verbs stated in Law 5237 has caused institutional damage. For all necessary jobs and procedures, including the cancellation of licenses on the health services server and physicians who perform the qualified fraud verbs stated in Law 5237," the Ministry of Health said. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 57, which stipulates a amendment to Article 103 of Law 5510, be removed from the draft text of the current 639 Orders Numbered Bill. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Ibrahim Binici Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0438par0273	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0435par0274	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0439par0275	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0435par0276	I'm reading the reason: In the event that the collection of the SGK will be compromised, an arrangement that can be halted by related health care servers in the institution's interest by up to six months could result in victims of health care servers and practices that would victimise citizens in health care services. With change, this problem is intended to be resolved. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 639 Sequential Bill of Law 57. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Vahap Selects (Mersin) and Friends The following jokes are added to Article 103 of Article 57 - 5510. "In the course of review or investigation conducted by the office inspectors, the payment of health care servers from the institution's health care providers may be halted in proportion to the expected to risk collection, if the commission of at least three inspectors is expected to take risks, and will not exceed three months with the approval of the chairman of Guidance and Investigation. If there is no investigation or investigation within three months, the cease-fire decision will automatically be lifted, and it will continue to pay its dues as of this date. If they are to receive payment by the end of the three-month period, they will not be paid until the investigation or investigation is concluded. However, for each of the health care server's legal debts in the institution's interest, the decision to stop Article 6183 of Articles 1st and 3rd of the Law will be removed by the institutionary unit, which implements this decision, provided guarantees are made. A contract is not made with the same health care provider until the term of dissolution has been completed and the term of dissolution has been completed. However, there is no contract with the same health care provider and physicians if the practice of qualified fraud verbs stated in Law 5237 has caused institutional damage. For all necessary jobs and procedures, including the cancellation of licenses on the health services server and physicians who perform the qualified fraud verbs stated in Law 5237," the Ministry of Health said. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0440par0289	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0435par0290	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0441par0291	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0435par0292	Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0442par0294	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 57 of the Law Bill 639. I salute your high council. As you all know, on May 13th, after the Manisa Soma murder, I want to say that we support the positive elements of this bill as the Republican People's Party regarding improving the working conditions and improving the rights of the miners. However, in this bill of law, you have not failed to add to the interests of society, as always, in cunning, the laws that protect and protect some interests. Dear lawmakers, in the hope that there will be no more similar killings in Soma. See what we as the Republican People's Party said when these talks were being held: Come, let us lift this subcontractorship. So we thought we'd get ahead of the deaths, the business accidents, the work losses. We said, "Come, let's do this, in order to ensure the safety of business, without making a public and private distinction; you didn't go there." If we can't handle subcontractorship in all business areas, at least we said, "Come, let's stop subcontractoring in the public field," we offered law proposals; you didn't, in fact, you did the opposite, and in this bill, you made subcontractorships by authorising the Council of Ministers. Again, here, if you can't handle this subcontractorship in the public, let's take the subcontractorship in the mine business, where there are the most job accidents, where the deaths are the most, and you even agreed to discuss the law proposal for this, and then you threw it behind the agenda during the issues to be discussed in this House. What is this insincereness? Mr. Minister of Labour and Social Security promised here, and he said from this bench: "We are opposed to subcontractorship, and we are for the removal of subcontractorship." I want to remind Mr. Minister: How quickly did he forget his promise, what happened? Suddenly, when you went to the Commission, your commitments to the Plan and Budget Commission failed. Dear lawmakers, look, I'm the MP from Alexandria, and I'd like to share with you the negative effects of subcontractorship on employees. He is one of the most dense cities in Turkey's industry, and therefore one of the most dense cities in which workers and workers are. We go to our province almost every weekend. Many of my fellow lawmakers, every weekend we go to our province, we either welcome workers who are fired in front of a factory or we welcome workers who act or we welcome workers on strike. We ask these friends: What happened, why are you on strike, why are you acting? The answer is this: "The tribulation of Tabheronization. We want to organize at work, but the next thing we know, we're on the doorstep. Twelve, sixteen hours of work is a long time. We work these long hours if we have to, but we're saying we should work overtime, and then we see ourselves outside the door. We don't want to work under the age of hunger anymore, we want our working conditions, our living conditions to be improved for humanity, but we're looking at it in front of the door. We didn't know what else to do. It's not like we're the children of this country. Actually, we're not against anyone. We have only one goal, to earn bread for our children, to give them a good future, says the workers. Dear MPs, please, we talk about this every time. This is a request from our fellow workers, and they said, "Please state this when you go to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey." Look, I want to tell you about a few jobs in the province of Kopeeli, where workers have been thrown out for the past three months because of actions. The city food workers have demanded that their rights from the collective contract be improved, and they are on strike. Star-integrated employees are now on the street due to organization. M&T Ad employees, employees at the Shelley University Hospital; these are the ones who were fired on account of being a unionist. The Pakmaya people, the people who work at TÜBITAK... The Minister wasn't here. The Minister of Industry, the Minister of Marseilles, has been fired only 240 people in TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK) since his arrival. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The workers promised during the election were now on the street because of investment in Izmit Municipality. Because of the limited amount of time I have on these things, I'm going to make sure that it goes on in another article, and I'm going to pay all of you respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0443par0308	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework of Law Bill 639 shall be changed in the following way. Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends The following jokes are added to Article 103 of the Law 57-5510. The payment of healthcare services servers may be halted in accordance with the appropriate opinion of the commission consisting of at least three inspectors and the approval of the chairman of Guidance and Investigation, due to the findings conducted by the firm's inspectors or the findings conducted during the investigation, as well as the expected to risk collection. If there is no investigation or investigation within six months, the cease-fire decision will automatically be lifted, and it will continue to pay its dues as of this date. If they are to receive payment by the end of the six-month period, they will not be paid until the investigation or investigation is concluded. However, for each of the health care server's legal debts in the institution's interest, the decision to stop Article No. 6183 of the First Article of the Law, in accordance with those listed in the 2nd and 3rd terms of the Articles of the Law, is removed by the institutional unit, which implements the decision and pays its dues in the institution's interest. A new contract will not be made until the term of dissolution has been completed and the term of dissolution has been completed, depending on the verbs of the institution, which have been terminated by the institution's terminated health care server. In the event of the return of the health care server, the institution, which causes the annulment, is not contracting with the health care provider who takes over without collection and without a minimum year of dissolution. Invoices for examinations and procedures of the health care server, which has not been signed or has been terminated, are not paid. As long as it is seen in the Law No. 5237 that qualified fraud has been committed in the course of a determined court order, the verbs will not be contracted with the same health care server or the health service server, or the health services server, which they later associate with, in the case of which the physicians have committed them, for at least three years. Expecting a final court decision will not prevent the implementation of the terms of the termination of the agreements on the purchase of health care. The health care provider and/or physicians who perform qualified fraud verbs stated in Law 5237 are informed of the arbitraryness of all jobs and procedures necessary, including the cancellation of their license. Invoices for examinations and procedures from physicians who have committed qualified fraud verbs and caused institutional damage are not paid by at least three years. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0444par0320	We're giving it to you, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0443par0321	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0445par0322	We agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0446par0323	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0443par0324	I'm reading the reason: As a result of the execution of qualified fraud verbs mentioned in the Turkish Penal Code, health care costs offered by physicians who have caused institutional damage were intended not to be paid even if they were billed by health care servers. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that subdivisions of Law Bill 639 be changed in the form of three. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0447par0333	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0443par0334	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0448par0335	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0443par0336	Mr. Kalayci of the Conium, come in.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0449par0338	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In the event that the sum of the bill and the collection of the Social Security Agency will be compromised, the payment of the health care servers' income from the institution can be halted by up to six months. In addition, no contract will be made with persons or health care servers who have caused institutional damage by committing a qualified fraud crime. Due to the risk of the collection of the institution's purchase, the payment of health care servers to the institution's health care providers' property may result in arbitrary and political practices. Because in which case the collection of the institution will be at risk, it could lead to subjective assessments. Therefore, the law clearly states in which situations the institution will take risks. However, it is clearly stated in Article 103 of Law No. 5510, which will be followed according to general provisions regarding health care servers in what irregular and corrupt operations. In addition, inspectors are also at risk with this practice. It would be possible for the inspectors to be involved in the litigation of compensation cases. Health expenditures are at the top of the most heavy-on social security budget in recent years. Any measures on hospital, medicine, and medical supplies, of significant size, will provide significant benefits to the system. It is important to establish a realistic drug pricing system, a healthy prescription and bill control system based on interagency cooperation and co-ordination, including the production and import of drugs, including the quantity of drugs, and the availability of licensing form in volume, and the creation of an effective control mechanism from the production or import to the use of the patient. I would like to report from here that we will always support and contribute to such measures as the National Movement Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, many public employees who are waiting for this bag of bills are disappointed. Although public contractors have won their cases, they haven't been cast for three years. One of the most limited rights of public employees is 4/C. 4/C personnel, according to staff members with the same job, are both deprived of certain rights and their salary is very low. They say: "We have hired the people, we give them the money, we make them work as we please, we do what we want." That's understanding. The AKP's idea of slave labor is self-evident here. Although they are doing the same job in the same place, there is no explanation for being paid too low for staff members and discrimination. With this bill, the AKP's mindset ignores victims who have been waiting for years while its own purpose is to employ staffs for its own pleasure. You know, last year in July, the bags were signed by the law and the substitute Koran instructors were recruited into the officers' staff. However, the AKP has also done what it knows best, injustice, discrimination, inequality and injustice, and has victimised some of its public employees. By this law, victims of 4/C have been humbled. Guidance and master teachers and paid teachers have been ignored. The surrogacy nurses, the family health workers, are disappointed. The joys of proxy imams and proxy muezzins have been left in their sockets. Deputy imams and deputy muezzins were also accepted by the Plan and Budget Commission, while the General Assembly was issued with the AKP Group's motion. The rights of paralegal imams and paralegal muezzins working at a low price have been taken from you. You're exploiting the labor of even Imams and muezzins. Why did you take the rights of deputy imams and proxy muezzins? Explain to me why you stopped him when he was about to be recruited. The brochures prepared by the AKP are still mentioned as being given a staff. Why are you fooling people? "Why don't you put in a position for deputy imams and proxy muezzins?"
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0450par0348	Thank you, Mr. Kalayci. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the earlier motion, I submit to your votes the 57th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 58: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The box of the current 639 Numbered Bill of the Law is 58. Added to Article 5510 by Article 9. We offer and propose that the 10 signs of the article be changed to 15 in the 1st and 2nd jokes. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man İzzet Cetin Mehmet Ali Sesam Sedef Küçük Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third sentence of Article 58 of the current Law Bill 639 shall be removed from the text of the article. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 58 of the current 639 Numbered Bill of Law be removed from the draft text, which stipulates to add additional clauses to Law 5510. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Sebahat Tuncel Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0451par0371	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0450par0372	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0452par0373	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0450par0374	Motive... In domestic affairs, less than 10 days a month's insurance coverage will increase inequality among employees. It is a right of citizenship to have all employees insured with public support regardless of the working day, and new regulations must be made. With change, problems that exist in this direction are intended to be resolved. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the third sentence of Article 58 of Law Bill 639 be removed from the text of the article. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0453par0383	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0450par0384	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0454par0385	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0450par0386	Mr. Halaçoglu, who will speak?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0455par0387	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0450par0388	Motive... According to Article 21 of the Article 21 in terms of occupational accident and occupational illness and the responsibility of the employer and third persons, if the occupational and occupational illness occurred as a result of a violation of the employer's intention or insurance policy and the safety code of health insurance, the institution's insurance or rights holders will be charged with the sum of the first advance capital at the start of this or future payment of the law. The principle of inevitability is considered in determining the responsibility of the employer. Article 21 of Article 21 of the Act No. 5510 does not apply to the insurance workers who work in the home services. Thus, the employer's responsibility for occupational accidents, occupational illness, and illness is eliminated. The employer is responsible for occupational accidents, occupational illness, and illness against household workers. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The box of the current 639 Numbered Bill of the Law is 58. Added to Article 5510 by Article 9. We offer and propose that the 10 signs of the article be changed to 15 in the 1st and 2nd jokes. Vahap Selects (Mersin) and Friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0456par0397	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0450par0398	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0457par0399	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0450par0400	Here you go, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0458par0402	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 58 of Law Bill 639. I salute your high council. The item we're talking about is the insurance policy of women who work in home services. This situation is correct and proper, but it has been delayed, as with every arrangement for women. However, I would like to point out that we always support any arrangement that will cover women and support women's employment. On this occasion, I'd like to address the insurance and employment situation of our women. Of the nearly 13 million people who have mandatory insurance, only 3 million and 250,000 are women, 23 percent of whom are women. It's not possible to call it good, of course, but there are worse numbers. According to OECD data, women's employment rate in Turkey is 27.8 per cent and is the latest. Mexico is the closest country to Turkey, and even there, women have 43.4% employment rate. Given the annual increase rate, Turkey will be able to reach the Mexican rate in 20 years. Not to mention the countries above 70 per cent of women's employment rates or 50 per cent of the world's averages, it would take decades to reach 40 per cent. One third of the women employed in our country are free family workers. Almost all women who are unable to join the labor force are deprived of their own insurance. Among women who can participate in working life, unemployment is very common. This is the view of our country in the 21st century for women. Not to mention the daily violence, the daily murders, the ongoing lack of education and inequality in every area. In modern - day Turkey, there really is no woman's name. Dear MPs, it is impossible for Turkey to achieve meaningful and sustainable growth unless we make women part of the economic system and create employment conditions. To do that, there are preconceptions that we have to face first and then solve. Unfortunately, there's a perception throughout our society, especially those who run the state, that women should only bear children, care for their spouse and family, do household chores, not fit the facts of this century. Well, it's imperative to fight that perception. See, 25.3 per cent of men should not work, according to the book TİK 2013 Gender Statistics. Women should not work. When asked why not, their primary duty is child care and domestic affairs. The proportion of those who say is 56 per cent. Again, women, according to the same statistics, have agreed that women should work at 90 percent, so women object at a level that is not underestimated when they think women should work. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as you can see, this is a mental problem. It's the same mentality that perceives a woman second-rate, isolates her from life, deprives her of education. It is a similar mentality that says that women who tolerate violence deserve it for women who are killed. And that mentality is the greatest obstacle to our women sharing their lives equally. Of course, there are historical, religious, social, economic dynamics behind this mentality, but there's still no reason to ignore her in this century, there's no reason to lock her in the house. No progress can be made without overcoming that mentality, fighting that mentality. As it's been done for the past 12 years, pretending to fight this mentality and ignoring problems is the worst policy that can be implemented, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit07spe0459par0410	Thank you, Mr. Little. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... Article 58 is accepted. I'm taking a three-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-22sit08spe0459par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 123th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with Human Rights Review Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which are part of the 5th agenda, in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the disabled. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Members of parliament, it has been noted that the commission cannot be present in the General Assembly talks. On Wednesday (July 23, 2014), it is 12 p.m., according to the decision taken, to discuss the draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
