tbmm-2014-05-27sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I'm opening the 93/th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 93rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The opening roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Diyarbakir MP On Friday, who asked for a comment on the 1375-year anniversary of Diyarbakır's conquest. Here you go, Mr. Heartfelt.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0002par0015	Mr. President, the high-ranking MPs, 627 years of the holy prophet (SAV) and his staff, they defended the Meccans against the Meccans in preparation for the attack, and the battle of the Ditch was won after a painful, difficult, difficult period. At its most desperate time, Gabriel (AS) came to the Lord and gave the Lord the good news that the palaces of Iran, Damascus and Byzantines were revealed to be conquered by Muslims, after the rocks he struck with an axe in his hand. The apostle of God shared this joyful news with his heart, and they were happy. It was not long ago that the good news that the Lord had given to the assembly began to happen. Iran was conquered first in the era of the caliphate of God Omar. After Damascus was taken, it was time for Byzantine. The first target was Byzantine's heart, the most important city in the border length, the land-i Diyarbekir. The third leg of the good news that the prophet (SAV) gave on the day of the Ditch was fulfilled in 639. Because after months of difficult war, faith prevails, and when the dates showed May 27, 639, Diyarbekir opened his doors to Islam. When the city was taken, the court witnesses to the conquest reminded each other of the Day of the Trendek twelve years ago, the Messenger of Sadaka. First things first. Diyarbakir's conquest is as unique in some ways as it was in the first. Once again, with this conquest, Diyarbekir was the first major gate of Anatolia to Islam. A conquest that was only seven years after the Ashram, and it was happening with the hands of the court. A conquest which stood in his army, as were the great courts of Halid bin Velid, and Muaz bin Cebel; and in Medina was a wave of joy. It is a cause of joy to Omare, and to Osman, and to Ali, and to Bilal the Lord, and to the great courts that are preached in heaven. It's a date that 639 is the day when salvation, freedom, peace, love, and the doors of Islam are opened. May 27, 639 is the day Diyarbekir was freed from the Byzantine oppressors. 639 is the day of freedom in the city of Amid, where the conquests were greeted with rose-green roses in the Diyarbekir region. It is the land where 541 courtmen personally participated in the conquest and were buried months before the conquest, and 27 martyrs were buried in the same place, Diyarbekir. That's why you can't enter Diyarbekir without abdest. There's a saying. It means that every step of the way, in Sur district, there are sahabes and saints, respect and respect for them. With this conquest, the nations living within the outer walls lived together for thousands of years, with the consciousness of the community, and not the ethnic group. The victory of the Ditch is the victory of Diyarbekir. The conquest of Mecca is the conquest of Diyarbekir. 639 is the conquest of Diyarbekir, in fact the conquest of Istanbul. We are descendants of the profession, which dates back to Vienna. We, through every conquest, have made peace, brotherhood, and love prevail over the geography we go to. We respected the religion everyone believed in, allowed them to live their religion, their language, their culture. At that time, we spread the universal declaration of human rights in the Farewell Hutbesi of our Lord to three continents, with love and embracing faith in conquests. Just as the landbeer was conquered 1375 years ago today, we are now re-conquering. Now it's time to conquer broken hearts. That's what the solution process is for. We conquer hearts and hearts together again. We want a Turkey where the climate of love prevails, where the songs of peace and brotherhood echo in every heart. We are lovers of Diyarbekir and Turkey, and in the 1375th year of this conquest of the heart, I look forward to our Diyarbekir, the city of love, brotherhood and tolerance, the May 27 military coup, which means today, and I condemn all of you who say, "It's urgent," and I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Heartfelt. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Aydın MP Ali Longırmak, who wants to talk about renovating the canceled elections on June 1st. Here you go, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0004par0031	Mr. President, I have been promised to inform and draw attention to our House on the implementation of the June 1st renovation of the elections that have been cancelled in some areas. My deepest regards to all of you. Elections have been cancelled in Buharkent district of Aydın Province, where elections are being renewed and valuable MPs, we are all here through the blessings of democracy. When democracy is implemented by the whole institution and its rules, members of the political institution survive, and only by rules are equality. Today -- what I see in my constituency -- is cruel and cruel, ruthless, and the sum total of all of this -- is trying to maintain an immoral policy. Dear friends, the government may, of course, aim to win elections in a number of promising districts, but it must never, never, never, never, ever forget that it does not benefit the system and the winners to win elections by breaking hopes of these abuses, shows, and even some of the people who have done some work. Dear lawmakers, I was in Aydin at the weekend, and I was in Buharkent. I'd like to share with you an incident we had there. A power can't be that cruel and can't resort to such immoral ways. There, in the 2000s, the Adnan Menderes University founded a charity organization to build a faculty, an institute of philanthropists, and under the leadership of this association, a university was formed with a university, a community of building, a living association, and it was created by us, and by those who, with the help of my witness, were, by our deceased mayor, Kadri Halenoglu and former mayor, who were already elected and the winner of the cancelled election, by the contributions of Yusuf Sikal. But let's see, when it's not possible to get students in this academic year, even if our President, including Mr. Prime Minister, wanted to open that school, in September it can't get students there, it's impossible to get them there, and the MPs, the government, they're going to come over there and try to change the public's opinion, and they're even trying to do it without the mayors, the mayors, the deceased's parents, for two weeks, and they're trying to get hope. Dear lawmakers, this is shameful; it is wrong; it is immoral in all its sum. From now on, a power must not force Turkey to steal money, to steal fame, to steal labor, to steal everything, to steal the will of the voter, in a manner that suits the role of a kleptomaniac. Dear lawmakers, this has spread throughout the community. I'd like to share an event with you right now. Dear MPs, when entering the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- I am a member of the Council of Turkey -- we have a car with the Grand National Assembly of Turkey plate, which is being stopped, the Prime Minister's motorcade will arrive, you can't go there... if the Turkish Prime Minister needs such protection within the borders of the Grand National Assembly... we go to the prayer of the funeral; we can't approach the terror of the funeral prayer; we can't get close to the stone. We go to the Memorial, we cannot walk the Lion Road in the Memorial, we are caught in the terror of protection. We're coming into the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where, as a member of parliament, we're going to the protection terror of Cinnah Street, where all vehicles are being removed on the Prime Minister's route on the road; all citizens are complaining. Dear MPs, a Prime Minister in a country who says he believes in the will of the nation can't be so afraid of the people. This fear is obviously caused by some concern. Then why so much fear? The public is so persecuted that the people are so feared, so feared by other places. Turkey shouldn't be so nervous. The government shouldn't be so hard on election districts with power opportunities, with false promises, society shouldn't have so much tension. Bühkent University of applied sciences will surely be opened, but it must be honest and do so by offering their gratitude and gratitude. Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0005par0040	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP Sena Kaleli, who asked for a comment on the Bukköy mine that operates in the Mustafakemalpaşa district of Bursa. Here you go, Mr. Kaleli.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0006par0045	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0007par0046	Put it on record that no one in the government is in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0006par0047	Dear MPs, the mine workers we lost in Soma, and the late Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, ask Allah's mercy, and I salute your great delegation. In our country, in spite of man and nature, the so-called unconscionable growth, the unjust, the unaccountable, the relentless development that goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Disgrace, heartache, black-minded irresponsibility, serial and qualified murder. In 2009, the first sign of Soma was that 19 miners were burned to death by the explosion in Bukköy coal mines. After the soma disaster, during our visit to Bukköy, with the president of Mustafakemalpaşa district, we learned that workers were activated under 55 bases in the closed chimney, a new entrance was opened, a temporary screening of the exploding chimney, that the main base had been checked by investigators, that workers had entered after the engineer's control, that gas sensors had been removed, that the gas-vak quack panel had been disabled, that gas mask measurements, hand devices were not performed in the time of maintenance, that the workers had not been trusted with the union, that the camera system and that the area had been under way, and that the workers had been removed after the engineer's control, that the gas sensors had been removed, that they had been removed, and that they had been removed from the same job, and that the gas mask measurements had been neglected, and that they had been done in the same way, and that they had been neglected, and that they had been installed in the same way they had been done in the same way they had been done. In addition, during our visit to the victims of Soma families in Kütahya, we learned that some members of the families were not entitled to the rights of the same employer in Gediz, that they had to go to work from Kütahya to Soma, that they died as a result of irresponsibility. The irresponsibility of the safety of workers who should be at the edge of risky labor forces has cost the impending disaster and the number of unidentified lives. ▪ Reports what, Report what? What is the approach to you? What's gotten away from us? 1,900 square kilometers of the land area of Bursa is searched with underground and above-ground furnaces, with land and business licensed furnaces. By the pressure created by the rusts, the faultlines created by the land were irrefutable, the contaminated water was made to harm man and agriculture. Many cookers' licenses are not held responsible for their work. Dear lawmakers, taught desperation is a reality of Turkey. If we still don't understand the fact that our debtors, who can't work their fields, have entered the mine to retire early, then we've lost our senses, our reality, our humanity. If by reading the intentions of people who feel, who question, we're fueling the violence of our own strength, it's time to revolutionize conscience. Soma is a myth. Bukköy and other mining businesses must be taken immediately. As I finish, I wish that my lonely and beautiful country wake up from the hibernation of winter sleep and the Golden Palm Prize winner, Nuri Bilge Ceylan. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0008par0062	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to go into the system, and I'm going to make a minute of my word to the lawmakers. First, I'll make a promise to the members of the group who entered the system. Here you go, Mr. Row.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0009par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. On the anniversary of the May 27th 1960 coup, one of our history's pages of shame, we are repeatedly condemning the coup that sent democracy, a elected prime minister, and two ministers to the gallows. May 27th, 1960, when the legitimate power was destroyed by algebra, design, and weapons, without the will of the nation. The fiction is a dark period in which those selected in the courts were signed the death warrant, where people were driven to prison, tortured, and hanged for being members of a party, delegates, elected. It has been seen as embarrassingly supported by some of the civilian politics. This military coup attempt to be presented on May 27th and the Day of the Constitution could also be described as the mother of coups. It's the first blow of the Republic. With its constitution and institutions structured, it has also laid the groundwork for the following coups. The AK PARTY is a party that, as established in its philosophy, takes its legitimacy from the polls, respects universal human rights, emphasises the neutrality and independence of law. As we condemned yesterday's illegal intervention, we are determined to continue the struggle for democracy so that today and tomorrow our country will not suffer the same pain. On the anniversary of this bitter history, the late Prime Minister Adnan Menderes, hanged by the coupters, the ministers Fatin Rüğtütü, Hasan Polatkan, and the Democrats who were tortured and tortured by all their rights, are remembered with respect and mercy. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0010par0075	Thank you, Mr. Row. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0011par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, today is the 54th anniversary of the May 27th, 1960 military coup. Unfortunately, the fate line in the history of democracy in Turkey has always been shaped by military coups. We also see the May 27th military coup as a coup that cuts democracy down, tries to suppress and oppress the demands of rights and justice. We would like to say that on the grounds of the 54th anniversary of the May 27 military coup, we have condemned those who attempted a coup against the people's will and democracy and those who have thus far prevented them from being brought to trial. Again, according to official figures, we are in the 34th year of the Soccer massacre, which was clearly planned by the dark hands and the deep government, which led to the murder of 57 Alevi citizens. Today, unfortunately, we would like to express our concern that there has not been a confrontation with the Chorum massacre, and that the same discrimination towards our leftist opposition Kurdish people has been brought into action by the ruling party, triggering the same provocation. We want to express that there must be a confrontation with the Chorum massacre and a commission to investigate and face the facts of the history of all these deep massacres in the country. Again, a few days earlier, on May 18th, at the Turkish-Rojava border, we referred the situation of the 28-year-old mother Saada Darwich, who was killed alongside her two young children as a result of random shootings.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0012par0083	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0011par0084	Mr. President, we don't usually have a deadline when the deputy president of the group talks.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0012par0085	I told you before, once again, two minutes for the group's deputy presidents, one minute for our MPs.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0011par0086	Well, then, I'm just gonna wrap it up real quick so he can write me down.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0012par0087	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0011par0088	Unfortunately, after all that information we've passed on, four women who wanted to cross the border of Rojava to Turkey were killed yesterday as a result of a random shooting by soldiers, a woman named Shua Hussein Al Ubeyt. These dangerous approaches on the Rojava border are brought to both the government and the General Assembly's knowledge. We'd like to express that we condemn a mindset that kills unarmed people here as the People's Democratic Party. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0012par0090	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0013par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, today is the 54th anniversary of the first military action against our democracy, the first military coup on May 27, 1960. Democracys always rise on what we call a public consensus, and Turkey has a very big experience in both the constitution and parliament, which is the most fundamental institution of democracy. Preparations, exercises, with the Republic, continued with the Constitution of 1921, 1924, 1961 and 1982. However, with such a serious constitutional tradition and with the first formation of Parliament, the foundation of democracy, which was established again in 1920, Turkey was interrupted by military intervention from time to time, when it could continue democracy in a serious, safe way. May 27th is the first of them, and military intervention, military coups are the very sad pages of our republic's history, our history of democracy. We strongly condemn these coups, any involvement in democracy, any military coup, as the Republican People's Party Group, and we reject them. Parliament, which represents the will of the nation, should never be interrupted in any way. Military coups, again, are the times when judgment, politics, power is at its disposal. We're also experiencing an example of this in civilian governments. The times when the judiciary took over the political power are the worst times of democracy, and decisions made at these times have really been unconcerned decisions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The decisions of May 27 were not in such a way on the conscience of the nation. On the anniversary of the coup, I declare that we have rejected all military coups, all interventions against democracy as the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0014par0100	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0015par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. After the Soma mining massacre, the workers' pain and anger did not go away, but the sounds of workers from Soma Square and İstanbul Kadiköy Square rose at the end of the weekend. I'd like to remind Soma worker Hidayet Merdan....who is speaking at the weekend labour organizations' rally....to make a statement. The worker Merdan said, "I don't first offer my condolences to the Republic of Turkey, but to the workers and workers." He said, "Because the people who ruled the republic did not suffer, they caused this pain." We work like slaves. He stressed several times, saying that the dead workers were wearing masks, and why did we not escape when they were being rescued? Likewise, Hidayet Merdan, who said that the workers living underground would not be heard by the inhabitants of the skyscrapers, complained about the cruelty and slavery of investor bosses, and we see workers today... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They will win their rights by joining, by fighting. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0016par0110	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0017par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. As the National Movement Party, on this anniversary of May 27th, I would like to express that we have rejected any interference in democracy, national sovereignty, and we will have the decisive rule of law, the sovereignty of the nation, and the freedoms. As long as the Turkish nation lives, the sovereignty of the nation will prevail, and the nation will be unconditional. Another importance of May 27th is that in reality, as the National Party of Action, in the face of plays on national identity, national state and republics, those who opposed him were on May 27th when Customs and Tetel Minister Gün Sazak Sir was martyred on that day. Thus, as the National Movement Party, we, as a party also struggling with the unity and integrity of the Turkish nation, set this day as the day of the Memorial of the Sazak and the country's martyrs. To this day, I would like to express that we have been blessed with the mercy of Gün Sazak and all the country's martyrs, especially our Prime Minister Alparslan Turkesh, and that we are gratefully calling them the National Movement Party Group, and that in democracy, we will have the integrity, the integrity of the Turkish nation, the unity, the unity of our national state, our unity, our freedoms, the sovereignty of the nation.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0018par0116	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0019par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I wish there were ministers in the ranks of the government. There are some important problems. The purpose of a minute question is to announce the key issues to the ministry, to the government. There are now 20 cabins on the outer lines at Ataturk Airport, but four cabins are working because of the summer season, and our citizens are standing in line for hours. I demand that the Ministry take care of this problem immediately. Two: The passport is paid 200 or 300 euros for our citizens whose passport is expired abroad, while other countries receive 15 euros from their own citizens. Turkish citizens are being robbed on a passport fee. The third issue: Blue Card owners cannot exercise their right to choose and choose in Turkey. That's a big contrast. Turkish citizens with blue cards, women and men, when married, children born of men and women also lose Turkish citizenship, unable to gain Turkish citizenship. Another problem: Again, in a faculty in Turkey, in a law school, the owner of the Blue Card can't be a lawyer in Turkey, can't be a prosecutor, can't be a judge. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our citizens are victims, and I demand that this victim be relieved. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0020par0128	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Soydan...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0021par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. On Saturday (May 24th), at 12:25 a.m., 90km away from Çanakkale, I wish the citizens of Çanakkale and around Çanakkale to be touched by the earthquake that occurred 40km west of Gökçaada. A total of 321 of our citizens were injured in the earthquake, and a total of 299 of our buildings were damaged, including 13 of our mosques, 2 of our churches, and 8 of our schools. Twenty-two days ago, after the flood at Gökceada, the earthquake caused our island's people to be particularly agitated. The measures must be taken quickly to resolve the problems of our citizens living in Gökceada, who have suffered two disasters in the last month and return to the normal life of the island's people. The problems of our shop and producer, who have suffered severe economic losses after 2-2 days apart, must be resolved immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0022par0136	Thank you, Mr. Soydan. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0023par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. In 1994, the Artvin-Ardanuk-Ardahan creek road, launched during the period's SHP-True Road Government, consists of 62km. Unfortunately, despite over 20 years of work, it has not yet reached a finishing point. In particular, in the last five or six years, the Artvin MPs have asked questions to the relevant Minister of Transport, but each Minister of Transport has answered the question, which will be finished next year, and will be finished next year. When I asked the Minister of Transport of the period in 2013, Artvin-Ardahan-Ardanuç responded in writing that the creek road would be finished in 2014, but unfortunately today, problems in the publicisation process continue, and the Ardanç-Ardahan creek road is not finished because the funds are not broken. In 2014, there were numerous indications that this road would not be finished. The locals expect this road to be finished at once, and the funds to be transferred. The Ardanuç-Ardahan creek road is a major emergency and a major emergency. I wish the government would be sensitive about this, thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0022par0141	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0024par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. On Saturday (May 24, 2014), around 12:25 p.m., I was at the mayor's office there when the earthquake occurred in the Aegean Sea, 40km west of Gökçeada, located in Gökceada. On this occasion, the view I saw there, again, in Turkey, I have personally experienced that there are still no measures for the earthquake, and that the earthquake fact is still not taken more seriously in Turkey and in the twelve-year-old AKP administration. I've seen no city, especially in Gökcea, where electricity was supposed to go out instantly, where it wasn't cut; it wasn't gas and natural gas were cut; it was cut as many lines of communication as possible; it wasn't the first time that people were taken in the earthquake. On this occasion, a large number of ancient Greek homes in Gökçeada have become inhospitable when cracks are forming. On this occasion, an earthquake occurred in Çanakkale and other, Istanbul, İzmir and Tekirdağ, and 276 others injured in Balıkesir. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I just want you to get well soon.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0025par0149	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0026par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 19th anniversary of the organisational wait of mothers looking for their spouses, children, fathers, and perpetrators, who have disappeared from custody every Saturday since 1995 at Galatasaray Square. Some of these burning people have been meeting in the same place every week for 19 years, holding their son's picture, holding their son's image, holding on to the hope that kept them alive. All Saturdays I pay my respects to their mothers, waiting for the days when their loss will be found and their tears will be extinguished. May 27th, and let us all curse the other blows together, but let us not label the resistance, such as the trip that began a year ago and the people in the entire yurt took over; let us not lighten the blows, but let us place the resistance separately. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0027par0156	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0028par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. IN TÜBİTAK, every minister and president has been massacred and continues to take place. During the good month since the recent change, 110 people, including the Gebze compound, have been fired, and 250 in total. I would like to remind our country how right it is to have hundreds of personnel replaced by political winds of this institution, which is a strategic institution, which is a strategic institution, where political advocacy and kin relations are formed in hiring, and when they don't want to work, they start hunting witches with parallel structures or claims of security. I'm warning the Minister and the authorities not to sacrifice the research of science and technology to daily politics. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0029par0164	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0030par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, after the Van earthquake, they hire 7,000 people -- after the school closes -- they're suspended and they're paid minimum wage -- but we've been out for five months last year, and it's not clear how many months we'll stay out this year. We're already living our lives on minimum wage, under very difficult conditions. They ask the government to employ them for at least 11 or 12 months. Again, the TOKI subcontractors, who took the construction of TOKI, and today they are making calls -- especially to a citizen -- who is doing the work of the Department of Urbanization, are employing workers, not paying for them. If they're involved, I'm giving them their attention. Besides, I strongly condemn those who committed that massacre because of the Chorum massacre. It's obvious by whom this massacre was done, by people of which mentality. However, those who committed these massacres were in their time of power. I condemn them with violence and hatred, for these massacres were the massacres of Recep Erdoğan.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0031par0172	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0032par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. Tomorrow, there is a privatisation of Deepce Harbor, which was established in 1904 in our district of Derece, and a privatisation tender is being held. As this is not enough, it is included in this privatisation requirement, which includes an area of up to 450 meters [500 m] south of Lakeluk and a 1 km [1 km] filling area to the coast. It's going to be about 5 million cubic metres and turn into a container port. In the ports of the most business accidents since the mines in Turkey, especially after the privatisation, business accidents and fatal business accidents are rapidly increasing, and this is the final tender at Deep Harbor, which, deep down, stood as a balance element, contributing to the setting of the market. It is urgent that this privatisation should not take place, that the ports be transformed back into property of the state, both preventing business accidents and...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0033par0179	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Scholar...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0034par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. On 25 May 1983, the Sultan-üst Shuara Prize of Turkish literature was awarded to Necip Fazıl Simurek, a man of art and litigation, and we celebrate with mercy and gratitude in the year of his death. Master Necip Fazil Shortfurek is one of the greatest thinkers and poets of the republic's era, but also a great man of trial and suffering. The Master is the head of pencils that understand and express our spirit roots best. Necip Fazil Simsurek, who has always served his country's political and cultural development, a building blocks of Turkish literature, led our democratic development with a religious, tenacious structure, wishes that his passing would lead to understanding him in his 31st year, explaining and continuing the beauty he started.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0035par0185	Thank you, Mr. Scholar. Mr. Sour...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0036par0188	Mr. President, thank you very much. Unfortunately, I don't see any of the ministers here, but if you'll excuse me, I feel the need to share with you a plea from my constituents. My constituents are complaining that drugs have been sold to 9-year-olds in Istanbul Gazi neighborhood, Armutlu district and Albanian village district. ▪ The police tolerate it. Someone's taking care of drug gangs, young boys and girls can't get rid of the gang. Young girls are forced into prostitution and forced into slavery in the entertainment industry. Parents are threatened by gangs when they want to take care of their children. Even families going out of Istanbul isn't enough. Please, let those involved seize it. They call it. I'm sharing it with you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0037par0192	Thank you, Mr. Sour. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0038par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. A million people have been victimised in Bosnia and Herzegovina because of the overflowing rivers in the middle of Europe. There are over 50 people who have lost their lives. The European Union is helping Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, because Serbia is a candidate country in the face of the victims of the cultural, historical ties of these people. I condemn the European Union's double standard attitude. Turkey wishes more help to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) as soon as possible, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0039par0198	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Mr. Chandar...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0040par0201	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to remind you once again that despite the fact that we've been on the agenda of the House, we've been unable to get any results, not to be privatized by the Lying Termic Plant and the coal mines. The sleeper workers continue to resist, but we can't get an impression from the government except that they've blocked their ears. Second: Lake Bafa, which is one of the world's most important ancient loves, is rotten in the midst of the love of Selene and the shepherd Endymion. Because of the wrong policies of the State Waterworks and the Söke Watering Association, those beautiful fish, the eels, the beautiful birds, Lake Bafa, no longer exists, we expect to be held accountable for those responsible. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0041par0205	Thank you, Mr. Chandar. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0042par0208	Thank you, Mr. President. Now I remember the day-faced statesman, our esteemed minister, Gün Sazak Bey, at the 34th anniversary of his march to martyrdom, with mercy and gratitude. Gün Sazak Bey's privileged place in both state and political life is appreciated today by everyone, as well as the simplicity of his personal life. In this way, as an example of how and how a public lover should live, the spiritual secret of a fan's years of living in the hearts of those who love him is revealed to all of us. I believe that all such statesmen should learn from them, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0043par0211	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0044par0214	Thank you, Mr. President. The anniversary of the coup condemns the coups, and we want to say that we do not find moralism in the positions of those who rule these coups every ten years and the laws of these coups, nor do we change them, nor do those who take refuge in them take part in democracy. Again, the anniversary of the Chorum massacre. We point out that the state has to face itself, face the facts. If this is not done, we'd like to express that there will be no end to the differences in faith and conflict. We also know that there has been an attack on the Turkish Airlines vehicle in Somalia today, and there have been attacks on the embassy before. We invite the government to be careful about this, and we say, "Get well soon."
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0045par0218	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Finally, Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0046par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. On May 27, 1992, Iğdır and Ardahan were separated from Kars. So, as Kars, Ardahan and Iğdır as three crescents of the east, our three cities are practically guarding the border there. Iğdır and Ardahan were the province before the AKP, but unfortunately, during the AKP, our border cities were the hands. I'd like to thank everyone who's worked so hard to make sure that it doesn't happen. At the same time, May 27th, our fallen Customs Minister, Gün Sazak and the archipelago, is the day of the Memorial of the martyrs. On this occasion, I remember all our martyrs with mercy and gratitude. By the way, May 28 is the Republic Day of Azerbaijan, a friend and brother country. Congratulations on the Republic Day of Azerbaijan, a friend and brother country. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0047par0226	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly One of Turkey's controversial agendas for the past ten years is HESτ. As it has been widely reflected in the public, the HESEs have remained the subject of the environmental community and the law, while on the other hand have been the subject of increased reactions and the abuse of disproportionate force of will. In addition to forcing people to acquire from their habitats, the fluorescent fauna of the natural environment is brutally destroyed. Today, in all parts of Anatolia, for example, in Hopa, in the Nuts, in Loch, in Longgöl, in Amasya Taşova, in the Senoz, in the Yeremak Valley, in Munzur, in Peri Suzuda, in Manavgat, in Fethiye, in Erzurum Tortum, in Storm Creek, in a clear violation of people's basic right to life and environment. The 27th article of the Law on Publicisation No. 2942, titled "Aggression of Publicisation (Aggression) in haste, "in implementing the Law on National Defense of 3634, or the need for national defence or haste of the Council of Ministers in the implementation of the Law on Self-Subsistence, the value of which it shall be determined by the Council of Ministers in the case of decision or in the extraordinary cases envisioned by special laws, in accordance with the application of non-resisting goods shall be submitted to the deposit of the property on the basis of the property and on the basis of the basis of which it shall be placed in accordance with the request of the court in accordance with the application of the appropriate property of the court in accordance with the application of the amount of Article 10 € 15 €." The rule is given. In Article 1 of National Defense Act 3634, "Every individual owes it to the Court to provide or perform all military needs or services that cannot be provided by means of common means during the preparation of the campaigns and the gathering of continents during the period of tensions and crisis, when such situations have not yet been declared, but may require a war." It is said that the law will be enforced under what conditions. In 2004, the application of "immediate publicisation" brought into "war law" was transferred to the EPDK with the decision of the Council of Ministers, ignoring the TBM's will. The EPDK continues to use this authority in energy, mining, natural gas and oil sectors without any legal restrictions or supervision. The project was to build a piece of geography that had been looted by the destruction of the fluorine and fauna in the natural environment as a result of the removal of the area/state population from their homelands. In addition to the relevant articles of the Constitution and the total violation of Article 2872 of the Environmental Law, the work on dams built under HES projects is a crime. T.C. Article 166 (166) of the Constitution: "The benefits and needs of the community will be taken care of in the future investments"; Article 17) "Everyone has the right to maintain and develop his property, his property, his property, and his right to live in a healthy and balanced environment." Again, Article 2872 of the Environmental Law states: "Those who are polluting the environment and harming the environment are responsible for the conditions of imperfection due to the pollution and damage caused by the environment. According to general provisions, there is also a severance responsibility for the damage caused by the contamination." Given the results of the dams built under HES in Turkey, people will face the danger of being forced from their homes, as well as of disappearing all kinds of fluorine, fauna, biodiversity, and endemic species in the natural environment as a result of the full publicisation of the dams. Therefore, under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Inclusion, I demand that Parliament be opened. [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Tekirdağ]] 7) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 10) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 11) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[Malatya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] [[Çanakkale]] 17) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 20) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 21) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Aviation, which is part of the transport sector and is part of it, is an important part of Turkey's critical tourism sector, connected to many areas of activity, and is one of the forms of freedom of travel that is vital to social life. A quality, quality, and aviation industry that offers services at prices that can be reached by anyone, is of great importance, as well as its transport ease, as well as the country's promotion, as well as an international source of prestige in this regard. However, there have been serious problems in the aviation sector in particular over the past ten years, especially due to the privatisation of the THY in 2006, and immediately after the illegal intervention by the AKP's government, setbacks at Istanbul Ataturk Airport, Turkey's largest airport, have negatively affected domestic traffic and passengers, thousands of our citizens have suffered. In addition to all these problems, the delays have been chronically delayed due to irregular, unplanned and unconcerned administrations, which want to use the ILO and European Convention on Human Rights and other international legislation to search for their rights in our Constitution, as well as the Turkish aviation sector. After the coup on September 12, 1980, even in the martial law of the period, the aviation sector was not under strike ban, but the AKP government also took the same step and hit its working life again. The employees of the September 12, 2010 referendum received two union memberships, but in practice, even in other sectors, even in the single union membership of aviation workers, there are major obstacles. For all these reasons, as of 2012, I respectfully request that Parliament be investigated under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, which should be taken under the protection of the rights of companies and workers operating in the aeronautic sector to address the problems that are involved in the sector, as well as by Articles 104 and 105 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[İstanbul]] 2) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 3) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 6) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] 11) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Manisa]] [[Malatya]] 15) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] [[Çanakkale]] 19) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 20) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 21) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Balıkesir]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the event of the chaos created in Erzincan by hospitals in Erzincan, which are thought to have been done in the name of transmutation for existing hospitals in Erzincan, and that the results of the research in Erzincan will reflect all Turkey, as well as the reflection of public health services and the opening of Parliamentary research on the basis of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. [[Erzincan]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Tekirdağ]] 5) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 6) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Manisa]] 8) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] 11) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Aydın]] [[Çanakkale]] 16) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 17) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 18) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Adana]] [[Artvin]] [[İstanbul]] Health services serving society in Erzincan narrowed down as a venue after 2002. While all the procedures have been made to make the Kızılay Medical Center a hospital, it has not been performed for various reasons. The former SEC hospital, B block state hospital, has been closed. The public hospital, block A, has been reduced to size. The Mengücek State Hospital, opened as Research Hospital, is not able to provide for the needs of the people of Erzincan with its distance to the city centre as well as its insufficient capacity. A new 160 or 200-bed hospital won't be enough. However, instead of leaving the former SSC, B Block, state hospital, which is to be thrown out, an important opening in Erzincan would be closed by an obstetrics, FTR, and a children's hospital. The public hospital, A Block, is available, so an additional building and other majors can be resolved. If the research hospital will really work for this purpose and as step three, it can serve as a real research hospital in all neighbouring provinces. If the problem of professors who come to the research hospital once a month or never shows up is solved, then the health problem will be solved in Erzincan. For such purposes, any political will that really wants to resolve the health issue in Erzincan should offer real permanent solutions. First of all, it's easier to conclude what the health problems in Erzincan are if they're discovered. With Erzincan's seasonal conditions and transport ease and health care for the surrounding provinces, and with that, considering the economic value he will provide Erzincan with, it must be considered what must be done. Because I have professors in Erzincan, people who make headlines every day should explain what the truth is. It's also clear whether the goal here is to solve the health problem in Erzincan or to give someone the title of special professor. Because the public is concerned that this will not be welcome if these appointments are explained for what purpose. Applications at the research hospital should also be investigated for this purpose. It's also been researched as to how difficult it would be for doctors to employ friends without giving them a secretary. According to which logic, this practice is also explained. Besides, how many hospitals does Erzincan need and whether they need public hospitals or not, it'll be out in the open. All existing hospitals must remain open for the reasons mentioned above. The public must be asked whether these hospitals are needed or not. In health, it also becomes clear whether it's the logic of profit or people's health that's ahead. The state hospital also determines whether the new block A will be used for another purpose in the future. At the same time as parliamentary research has been launched, it must be investigated as well as the health transformation and the problems of the Public Hospitals Association, which has caused chaos and will continue to occur throughout the country. When you say change in health, all health care will be paid for. With the formation of the Public Hospitals Association, many hospitals will be closed because there will be profit-profit hospitals. Thus, all Turkey's problems will be investigated while researching health problems in Erzincan. Especially with the establishment of regional hospitals, it is intended to provide more hotel services, and its results appear to be privatisation. I see that there is co-operation with foreign capital to stimulate health tourism, and in the end, our health care institutions will be privatised with foreign capital, and the ground floor will be set up. In addition, regional hospitals should be discussed as to why they were built by the private sector and not by the state. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Equality of Women's Opportunities, the Public Economic Oppositions, the Plan and Budget and the European Union's Compliance Commissions also have a membership in lawmakers who are not members of the political party's group. Lawmakers who are not members of the political party group who want to run for these commissions are on Monday (June 2, 2014) at 18 p.m. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis that I'll have you read and vote: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly In response to the invitation of Turkish Parliament Vice President Coral Akşener to take part in a formal visit to Warsaw on June 4, 2014 to participate in the "Freedom Day Celebrations" on the anniversary of the 25th anniversary of Poland's transition into democracy with the President of the Polish Parliament, Eva Kopacz and Senate President Bogdan Borusewicz; under the adoption of the General Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Interior Charter, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 27/05/2014 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. The main Law Proposal (2/1210) in the agenda's "Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" section (2/1210) is to take this part to the third and to assess the order of other tasks according to this one. Until the meeting of the General Assembly, 27/5/2014 Tuesday (today), until the meeting of the Legislature of Number 89, completes the talks. It's 24 a.m. at the top of the list. At 00 a.m., if the daily schedule is incomplete, it has been recommended to continue its work until the day program is completed.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0048par0425	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0047par0426	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0048par0429	Sir, this has been brought up directly in accordance with Article 37, and the Justice and Development Party had agreed, and on that day, Mr. Secretary of State, we support, we want this to be legalized as the Justice and Development Party. Now, the Republican People's Party has a proposal to take the top of the agenda in order for this to be legalized. If there's a consensus on this, it's my call to accept this proposal immediately before we talk about it and pass the law immediately without having to discuss it. So let's put an end to the practice of subcontractors in the mining business. That's my call. If there's a consensus on this, I'm going to argue that we'd be better off getting into law enforcement without having these conversations today.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0047par0430	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0049par0431	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0047par0432	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0049par0434	Thank you, Mr. President. It will be remembered, Mr. Haydar Akar and Mr. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan have brought the law proposal to the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to be discussed, to be held on the agenda, with the support of 4 political parties and independent lawmakers after the death of 301 citizens in what we call a mine murder. Today's proposal is to be adopted in accordance with this procedure adopted on that day, in accordance with the agreement on that day, to be brought to the third place on the agenda, to be placed in the first place after loose ends, to be interviewed and legalized immediately. To that end, we brought our recommendation to the Council of Counsellors today, but the Council of Counsellors was unable to meet. If the Justice and Development Party really approves of this here, if they support it, we can immediately enforce this proposal without any discussion. Let's not waste any time, let's make such an important issue a continuation of the agreement of that day, we'll make it legal today, we won't have any meetings. I'm making that suggestion.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0047par0436	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Row, do you have an agreement with both of these proposals?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0050par0439	Sir, I'd like to thank you for the sentiment of the members of the group. Yes, there was a disaster in Soma. Our Department of Labor and Social Security is completing their work on this. We didn't have that law on our work schedule this week. So, unfortunately, we don't have an agreement, so we'll continue with our normal agenda. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0051par0442	You have no argument. All right, then, we'll start talking.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0052par0444	Mr. President, what kind of work is this? Yesterday, they said, OK. The minister said here on the stand: "We did a very good job. Now the Justice and Development Party says: "We are sidelines."
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0051par0445	Mr. Vural, you made your point, and they said there was no agreement.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0052par0446	Mr. President, but this is the Turkish National Assembly, speaking for the nation. It's not like that yesterday today. The esteemed MPs contributed. What are these MPs going to say? I mean, if he can't even legislate a matter that has been agreed upon in Congress, then there's a will above the will of lawmakers. What bureaucratic oligarchy is interfering?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0051par0447	Mr. Vural, that's out of the question.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0052par0448	Well, it happened.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0053par0449	Mr. President, if I may have a word. On behalf of everyone, I've expressed the opinion of our party here. I'd like to say that I don't honor the Coven. Let's start the interviews. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0054par0452	Thank you. In favor of the proposal, MP Haydar Akar. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0055par0458	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm really sorry about the painting that just happened. Yes, last week, after the Soma murder -- I'm not saying it was an accident -- because there was a murder -- the law I gave to Parliament as a Republican People's Party MP -- we all agreed to vote here with all our party groups and our independent parliamentary friends, and we all agreed that it should be legalized. Among those who said that was the Minister of Labor and Social Security. He didn't say it the first time, he said it before, he said he'd done studies before. Now, I'm going to bring it up in a little bit, but I'm really sorry about your attitude today. We are now followed by our mining brothers and sisters in Soma, our surviving miners brothers in Kozlu, our mining brothers in Kozlu, our fellow miners in Afshin-Elbia, our mining brothers in Şırnak, our miners in Turkey, and their family in the mines all over Turkey. Yeah, we had an agreement last week. We all agreed that this law should be enforced. So, when are we gonna legalize it? Here we are, today the House has gathered. We're doing our duty as Republican People's Party Group. The National Movement Party supports us, the People's Democratic Party supports us, our independent parliamentary friends support us, but even though the AKP Group backed us last week, it says today: "We will continue our normal procedure. I don't hear this for the first time, we will continue our normal work." You know when I heard that, fellas? I heard that again on January 10, 2013. Why did I hear that? After the Kozlu murder. After the Kozlu business accident, a friend of yours, an MP, came to this stand and said we had more important things to do. More important things were international contracts. That day you refused our motion to investigate, a year and a half before that incident. What did we say about that research proposal? Mining accidents in Turkey are increasing every year. Don't get me wrong, Turkey is not a coal-producing country. So, when you're ranking the world, Turkey is not the top 10 in coal production, coal reserves. It is not the first country in its reserves to enter into the top ten, not the first country in the production of coal. But in the first 10 things, in the first things. First in what? First in business accidents, first in mortal business accidents. Now, especially after the last Soma disaster, he's risen to number 1 in these mortal business accidents. This law proposal has to be placed in the front row to be discussed today -- yes, it's on the agenda of Congress. Our proposal for today's group was to keep the House open until this law was passed and the House was closed by the third place.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0056par0461	We'll be done in two minutes, we don't need it until it's closed.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0055par0462	Yeah. If the AKP had been able to agree, I would not have felt the need to have this conversation today, and if the other groups had stood behind the promise that the subcontractor work in the mines should have been removed and stood behind it last week and a year and a half ago, the Minister would have been operated on, asking God for healing -- if he had stood behind the promise he had made -- I would not have felt the need to do it today, and the other groups would not have felt the need to do it, and we would have legalized it. Guys, what's a subcontractor? Have you considered when subcontractor work was legalized in Turkey? The AKP became legal during its ruling period. You're a government that legalizes subcontractorship in Turkey at 22/5/2003. So you're a government that legalizes slavery in Turkey, theft of labor. Now, I have to say this. Again, according to your minister's figures, 34,000 companies in the private sector and 275 companies in the public sector employ subcontractors. Six hundred and sixty-six thousand people in the public and 522,000 in private work as subcontractors. So, when we ask, "What does a Tabheron worker do? " What a contractor has to do is temporarily work in matters of expertise. But that's how we run it? No, we work as the real worker, as in the Soma sample. Soma is a subcontractor; Soma is a service. In his statements, the Minister of Energy said he had no idea what method was being done in Soma. But the other day, when I went to him and asked him, what method do you produce coal in Soma? When I asked him, he had to pick up the phone and ask the Director General of TKI. We have a Minister of Energy. We have subcontractors who do the real work. They're unorganized. Those who are organized are like Soma. I'm celebrating my fellow miners in Soma, celebrating their bravery, celebrating that yellow union's representatives in Soma, but the government can't arrange for the subcontractors to resign because they're the head of those yellow unions, the head of the Turkish-İSK, the head of the AKP-İST, to resign because they're waiting, they're saying that the government can't arrange for subcontracted labor. What the government has to do is remove this human slavery in Turkey, remove subcontractor work. A subcontractor is underpaid. My brothers and sisters in Soma are a bit more fortunate. The unlucky ones work for minimum wage, and the lucky ones work for $1,200. You know, they can't buy boats like your kids, with those $1,200, they can't wear 700,000 TL watches, the miners' children don't have safes, and these miners don't have weekend holidays, they don't have holiday holidays -- whenever business is a holiday -- these contractors have to work there. So, uh, subcontractors are working, so how are they doing in business accidents? Look, we've seen business accidents in recent years where subcontractors have lost more lives, more business accidents. These are due to the failure of labour health, health and occupational safety laws to apply on these labouring brothers and sisters, without measures being taken. Yeah, now it's time to get out of subcontractor work. After the Kozlu accident, the Minister of Labor and Social Security came out -- and I want to share this with you -- from this bench, subcontractor work is an invitation to death in the mines. He said he had to get up, and he renewed it several times. So, what did we do about it? Each time, we made an offer, and on January 29, 2013, we proposed this law. A year and a half later, we downloaded it last week with your approval votes, but you're preventing this from being discussed today, you're not standing behind the support you've given today, you're taking it to cool it down, as it was before in Kozlu, as in Karadon, to cool it down as in Afshin-Elbia. Every time you leave, we'll ask the responsible. You say. Now I ask you, have you also asked Kozlu, have you asked him in Afghanistan and in Karadon? You didn't ask for any of this, and you keep not asking because you're a representative of the capital here, you're representatives of this Congress of an understanding that defies human labor. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, again, one of the biggest reasons in business accidents is, you know, privatisation. Tomorrow, Deep Harbor is privatised, one of the few remaining ports in the state. Again, after the privatisations, the ports are the most workplace accidents we've had. I'm running out of time, and I'm telling you, if you're actually standing by your words, we'll take the suggestion that my group presidents had just made, we'll save our miners, we'll stop the exploitation of their labor, we'll save them from living like poor citizens, we'll save them from living like second-class citizens, and you'll support that. Again, we will end the subcontractor's law that you brought back in 2003 with your votes. In other business sectors, we set an example for our friends who work in heavy business, and we give them the right to organize and live as human beings. That's what we're here for, guys. We represent the capital... of course there will be capital, but we're here to improve the quality of human life, to give them their social rights, to use them to the full extent of their union rights. I invite you one more time, and if you accept this offer, we'll be saving our miners. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0057par0476	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay against him. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0058par0480	Thank you, Mr. President. I have taken a pledge to be in favor of the Republican People's Party's Law on Business and to be on the side of the law, which envisions a change in its labour code and is the end of subcontractorship in the mine business. Because it is absolutely impossible to take a stand against such an offer of law. And unfortunately, in the process of interview, we see that he speaks the truth and is surprised in the court. The Justice and Development Party group, as it were, has broken its promise less than a week later, and now today, the Council of the Council of Counsellors has made it clear that he is seeking other accounts and other thoughts. We're also learning from public information that the Justice and Development Party is also after regulations that, let alone subcontractor work, limiting, more public and private subcontractorization, completely pave the way for subcontractorization, and eliminate some restrictions in the law. I condemn this position of the Justice and Development Party. Do not deceive people, our citizens, and keep your promises and do not return. Last week you had this agreement, but you want to delay time, distracting hundreds of thousands of people with expectations, but we won't let that be forgotten. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers have been working with low wages, long hours in mines, especially in mines, where workers' health and occupational safety have been ignored, and many law enforcement and collaterals are lacking. Such as privatisation, subcontractorisation, and rejection, all of these false practices that lead to the same door, the lack of adequate work safety measures, and especially the lack of supervision, are causing business accidents to increase. One of the main reasons for the accidents in the mines and other business accidents is what we call subcontractorization and redevance. The mining disaster that occurred on the 13th of May in Soma (May 13th) served as a turnusol paper to show us in the most painful way how this subcontractorization, the redevance system, and the privatisation efforts can lead to disasters. Turkey is the first in Europe in business accidents, the third in the world. It's an embarrassing situation, and it's going on and on. When the reasons for explosions, fires and accidents are investigated in Turkey, there is a lack of production methods, the lack of business order, working order, production plan and project, the lack of ventilation and rescue infrastructure. After privatisations in Turkey, the sale of mining fields, renting and especially running by businessmen close to power showed the lack of these controls and the ruthlessness of the subcontractor system. The Law on Occupational Health and Safety No. 6331 has been passed. The recent deaths, particularly Soma, also appeared painfully, stemming from shortages and practices on labour health and occupational safety. In these business accidents -- we repeat -- the role of subcontractorism is huge. One of the main reasons that mining accidents took place is that the safety of this job is not effectively carried out by employee health inspections. If an expert on employee health and job safety in a mine is paid by the owner of that mine, it is clear that if its entry and exit is between the two lips of that mining establishment, the proper controls will not be conducted, and it is not expected to be insisted on. As a matter of fact, the workers' health and safety experts at Soma Coal Company had no jurisdiction over the company and the team's heads. There are many problems that are looking for a solution to working life, but it has become the most fundamental problem in the life of subcontractor labor, which is becoming more common every day. It's unacceptable for a subcontractor to be overworked in the sense of profit by staying away from universal norms when it should be given decent jobs that are worthy of human dignity, which are something like a system of slavery, which is not paid for. More than 1 million workers in Turkey work under sub-employee, sub-contractor status. About 600,000 of these are employed in public institutions. And we also showed that in the mine accident in Soma, even though the coal company was a subcontractor, a separate subcontractor was created -- like the crew's head -- a separate subcontractory system. The subcontractors have no monthly permits, no overtime, no return funds, no additional payments, no severance, no job guarantees, no job guarantees, no organizational rights. On top of that, subcontractors are humiliated, scorned, and oppressed. The bill, which stipulates that the National Movement Party will be assigned to subcontractors who are working in the main and permanent services of the state, is unfortunately on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear lawmakers, in particular for Soma, there has been a service contract between the Turkish Coal Company and the Soma Coal Company Anonymous. This service agreement violates the Employment Law and is a tricky contract. Article 2 of the Employment Law ..the actual work cannot be subcontracted, but a portion of the work or the actual work may be given to subcontractors who require expertise due to technological imperatives. In addition, the fourth article of the Public Contraction Law does not include coalworks, mining work, and this law is clearly violated. The owners of coal companies who pride themselves on reducing the cost of coal from $134 to $24, provide the savings with a subcontractor system from the worker, with workers' wages, jobs and workers' health and safety, and in the mine where the accident took place, there are some 40 subcontractors of this subcontracted company, which they call the head of the company. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to give you an example of this Soma mining accident. Government officials say the government will pay the government's wages for three months, but our miners are wondering what's going to happen in three months. There are allegations that three months later, our workers will be paid from the unemployment fund. If in three months, the salaries are given on unemployment insurance, these people with regular payments to banks will lose their wages and the miners won't be able to pay them. Therefore, the company responsible for the mining accident must pay the miners' salaries, including a bonus of thirty full days, until they take security measures in the mine. Now, I remind the government of the final joke of Article 25 of Law 6331. He says this is the last joke: the employer is obliged to pay the workers who are unemployed because the job is stopped, or to give them another job according to their circumstances, not a miscarriage in their wages. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, even in this case, the government is still protecting the employer. I invite you to follow the final joke of Article 25 of the Law of 6331 and salute the government and all of you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0059par0496	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. In his favor, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0060par0500	Thank you, Mr. President. Before I begin my speech, we curse those who strike the blows, those who lead the country into the darkness today, and we curse those who have also committed the Monstrous massacre. We also condemn all mentalitys that are discriminated against the citizens of this country and treated as other citizens. Friends, here last week as the Democratic Party of Peoples, while the suffering of Soma (Soma) was fresher, the law proposal for the subcontractors in the mining sector of Mr. Akar and Mr. Kaplan (Mr. Kaplan) was held in accordance with the Civil Charter 37. This hall was full, and everyone raised their hands the next day the media wrote a historic day, and the four party groups wrote history. Now, this offer of law came in, and I'm looking at it with this logic today, on my left side, against the ruling side, there are about 40 MPs. If the opposition were to vote right now, it would make a difference to you. I mean, you're against something you were so excited about yesterday. What's that like? What kind of mood is this? What kind of occupational health, security, union rights, law... since we're going to discuss these things in this Parliament... about the mining industry, look, there's actually more than one law proposal from our party group, given by our party friends, about subcontractorship. Because the subcontractorship has now spread to all areas of life, not just in the mining sector, but in all areas of Turkey, such as capillaries, all areas of Turkey, health, education, local administrations, defences, and all areas of transportation, housing, sailing, all areas. Now, the subcontractor system, who is responsible for the opportunity to raise that number to $2 million? WHEN the EC PARTY came to power, the subcontractors increased the number to 2 million during their mastery period. Now, we're going to have a good talk here, putting our hands on our conscience. How's that? BEFORE AK PARTY takes power... how can the number of union workers drop by one quarter after twelve years of organizational power? Unional rights and organization... now, this is a very serious situation. If you're in the mining industry... it's a law proposition in the mining industry. The pain of Soma is fresh. If you don't seek a cure, if you don't seek a solution... yesterday the miners of Soma will march on the union in Soma, and then they will march on TİKIE, and the owners of the operation, and then they will march on the subsidiary. He won't look at you, he won't look at you, he won't look at you. I'm telling you, I'm here to warn you. I mean, we knew the yellowness of unionism in the class struggle, but he didn't think there was any power or strength in the world that the authorities would develop their own kind of asshole unionism and completely subjugate it to the employers. It's not an acceptable understanding to bring that kind of unionism into the hands of the boss. Look, let me be very clear, I'm going to tell you a few words through the business industry. Put your hand on your conscience, what's minimum wage? Can it be the same for someone who works in a dangerous field of parks and gardens, who works eight hours in the flower beetles, who goes two kilometers in the Soma mining sector, and then he crawls not a mile after two kilometers, but he crawls for ten hours in three hundred and sixty-five seasons, who works at a desk in four seasons, not knowing which of the four seasons he works at? Could the danger of the two be one in business? Could the risk of the two be one, the risk of your employer paying one? Can two of them retire at 65? The two of them retire at 65 years old. If you say zinc is in the line of work -- there's a zinc factory in Kayseri, go see -- there's no father-in-law who can work for fifteen years, because there's no worker who's worked for fifteen years in history, who's retired from there. Because 15 years of labor is always poisoned, the body can't stand it, and it dies. Can you make that a 65-year-old condition? Is this justice? We have to speak the truth here. I would like to remind those who did not bring in ILO Convention 176: Look, your opposition and your power are not alike. Shall I read to you in 2002, as the Manisa MP of Bkent Arinc, what is he asking you about? He asks about privatisation, he asks about the work in Soma, he asks about the amount of imported coal. After that -- he doesn't ask -- how long has his reservation been working? He says, "How many workers are working?" and asks questions, such as "What is the reason for the production of the centrals?" Now, Mr. Arinc Vice Prime Minister, he's in a masterful state. Even though he had been transferred to Bursa, he was a member of the parliament for three periods from Manisa. The Minister of that era, Zeki Çakan, responds to page 7 of this period. The question we're asking you, my friends, is that no answer to any of the questions we've asked your ministers has been more than half a page. That's not serious, for God's sake, that's irresponsible! Look, we asked the Minister of Labor, and the Minister of Labor responded. I'd like to read you the exact answer the Minister of Labor gave you. Why haven't you signed Contract No.176 for 19 years?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0061par0505	We didn't sign it.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0060par0506	No, it's because I want to read the same thing, guys. Faruk Çelik says we didn't sign Contract 176 because our security and regulations are parallel to it. For God's sake! The ministry's regulations will be parallel to the ILO Convention! That's when the parallels started, my friends, and these parallel jobs aren't new. This is the new one, go deep, and go down to the parallel, and go down to the white coin, and go down to the low, and go down to the low, and go down to the low, and go down to the land. Well, now, here's CHP's law proposal, we took it last week. You just said: "No subcontractors in the mining sector." Can you tell me with what face, with what face, with what face you're going to vote down? You have the blackness of Soma's coal on your forehead, even though it's in your name. You have a lot of responsibility to get it out, a lot of work, a lot of work, a lot of work. You're going to take a human being, an employee as a human element, and you're going to walk away from that human element, and you're going to walk away from the law, and we're going to make an arrangement here that will reduce the pain of all of them. We won't leave you alone. Let's do it together. There is no other way for him to ease the pain.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0062par0509	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0060par0510	We're rooting for it, guys. We never say no to what we said yesterday. We don't have that in our eyes. We don't have that in our minds.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0062par0512	Against Şanlıurfa MP Mahmut Runar. Here you go, Mr. Runar.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0063par0515	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, before I begin my words, I salute the High Council. Before I take a word on the proposal of the law, today, the 54th anniversary of the May 27th military coup that has been a black day in our history of democracy, on the 54th anniversary of the coup d'etat of democracy, on the 54th anniversary of the coup d'état of the people's will, I hereby condemn the dead Adnan Menderes and the martyrs of democracy who were executed with it, the coupists, and those who applauded the coupger. Dear friends, the opposition party MPs who spoke ahead of us actually went outside of Parliament and parliamentary law and tried to make policy in their own way, using very harsh statements against our MPs. First, let me make this very clear: Last week, a sub-employee can't be employed in businesses operating in the service branch of the military. An offer for the law at the point of law without being discussed in the commissions is an offer on the agenda. We, the AK PARTY Group, supported this proposal last week by giving a positive opinion at the point where it should be brought up directly without being discussed in the commissions. The issue brought in today is as of today's proposal for the legalisation of this law proposal. The AK PARTY is where we stopped last week. We stand by what we said last week at the point that there was no sub-employee application regarding the mining service branch. But in their sentences, all opposition party lawmakers also said that the issue was not solved solely by the mine business, but by ending the sub-employment in the mining business, the issue of business health and security in this country has not been resolved. As of today, we are here to talk about the legalisation of this one-point issue, that it should be discussed on the basis of the matter, that it should not actually be averted, but rather the fact that the matter should be discussed, as well as that there are many things that we need to re-arrange, such as a factory in the zinc workforce, such as business health and safety arrangements in this area that we should have to intervene in, especially in this area. We all made a legal arrangement for occupational health and safety last year.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0064par0519	Two thousand liras for the contractor in Soma.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0063par0520	We've made the risk assessment mandatory, but we've all seen that there's a serious problem in many areas, especially in Soma, about the application. Then the issue cannot be solved with a single item of law.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0064par0521	It'll work out.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0063par0522	We need to discuss not only the subject of sub-employment in the mining business, but other problems in the mining business in detail, and we need to pass the legal arrangements from the Parliament together. It's not just about sub-employment. See, the number 2 article of our currently existing Law 4857 actually prohibits sub-employeeism, specifying specific areas for which issues to be applied, but unfortunately when you look at the application, we see that sub-employment is now a general practice in some areas.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0064par0524	Who's running it?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0063par0525	So instead of making a single legal arrangement on these legal arrangements, we need to re-arrange measures related to occupational health and safety, the assessment of our common will, the reasons for the disaster in Soma. And the work of the parliamentary research commission on preventing accidents in the mine business branch.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0064par0526	My dear brother, yesterday the Minister of Finance said, "No."
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0063par0527	On the other hand, we need to review the Prime Minister's legislation, which the Ministry of Labor has made, which we have significantly emphasised on in previous motions. On the one hand, the preparations for these subcontractorial studies, the arrangement that reveals the reasons for the business accidents in the mining service and the legal arrangements regarding them, and the legal arrangement given by our esteemed Samaritan friends, which we need to make a general arrangement regarding the internal law on the matter if we have to fulfil the provisions of the ILO contract. That's why, yesterday, last week, wherever we were, with all the sensitivity of last week, we were able to...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0064par0529	Dear Brother, you're a unionist; it's been thirteen years.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0063par0530	...to bring up proposals for the removal of sub-employees. We said, "Yes." And today, I would like to say that we have a common will at the point of enunciation and legalisation of all regulations regarding other subcontractors, which you are talking about, and that we have a common will at the point of legalisation before the House goes on vacation.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0065par0531	The Minister of Finance says no.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0063par0532	Dear friends, some sentences about sub-employment have been established in the talks here. Let me put together a couple of sentences about these. First of all, sub-employee is not an app that begins with the power of the AK PARTY. That one's open...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0066par0533	No, but he's made the law with you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0063par0534	No, no. Look, the first legal arrangement was made in 1936. The first application for sub-employment was in 1936.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0066par0535	In fact, you can go as far as 1860.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0063par0536	Then 1967, followed by the cancellation of the Supreme Court in 1970, 1971...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0066par0537	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0063par0538	We respect the wrongs about the practices of our current rule, and we view it as an important thing for us to set up a correct road map, but the Tasheronization started during your time of power. If you form a sentence, we won't accept it.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0066par0539	We say it's legalized.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0067par0540	Is it public?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0068par0541	Look, your group president is a lawyer, a lawyer. That kind of sentence is so wrong, man!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0069par0542	Dear friends, look, about the subcontractors, what are we going to do with the other working arm besides subcontractors in the mining business?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0070par0543	Come on, let's get them up. Come on.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0069par0544	Apart from the mining line of work, there are heavy working conditions, high risk services. We need to get these on the table.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0070par0545	Come on, let's get him up. You can make a motion and change it.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0069par0546	We also need to make a legal arrangement for these.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0070par0547	You can make a motion and change it. Let's remove all subcontractor work in all heavy labor.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0069par0548	Other than that, what are we going to do about subcontractors outside of the heavy-risk task force?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0070par0549	All right, let's get it all up.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0069par0550	They've got problems, they've got severance issues, they've got problems with organization.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0070par0551	Let's get the subcontractor off first, and we'll take care of it all.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0069par0552	These friends have problems with working conditions, not getting paid on time. These friends of ours have problems with union organization. The sub-employee has issues with redesigning. Dear friends, look, we have...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0070par0554	The definition is not correct, my dear brother. Aren't you the government?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0069par0555	The legal arrangement that we're currently working on, which is currently being transferred from the Prime Minister to Parliament, as well as the Soma disaster...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0070par0556	The subcontractorship is guaranteed, right?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0069par0557	...a provision for the working conditions of the heavy service and the severance package, the union organization...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0070par0558	It guarantees subcontractorship, doesn't it?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0071par0559	There's a court order.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0069par0560	...the failure to receive the funds in time includes many areas related to the implementation of some judicial decisions mentioned by the group's deputy president. With this legal arrangement, we make a much more accurate and healthy legal arrangement for working conditions when the one-point law proposal you mentioned is considered together.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0070par0561	Honestly, you don't mean that by believing.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0069par0562	In this sense, the EC PARTY Group, which has implemented so many legal regulations on working conditions so far, states that we will be able to solve the very important problem, as well as the arrangement for sub-employment before the House takes its vacation.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0070par0563	Is there a subcontractor in this? No.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0069par0564	There are subcontractors, of course, in this legal arrangement.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0070par0565	No subcontractor lifts. You guarantee subcontractorship.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0069par0566	And when the legal arrangement for subcontractors comes in, we'll discuss the details, and hopefully, we'll have an important way of dealing with it. I end my words by bowing respectfully to the High Council.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0072par0569	Thank you, Mr. Runar. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0073par0572	Unacceptable, sir!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0074par0573	Mr. President, please count!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0075par0574	Mr. President, you didn't count!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0076par0575	You make decisions without asking the clerks!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0074par0576	Mr. President, count it!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0075par0577	You didn't count it!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0077par0578	We counted...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0074par0579	Ask the clerks.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0077par0580	Congressmans, please take your seats. Under Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0078par0583	Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0079par0584	Mr. President, please count!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0080par0585	Count! Objection!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0081par0586	You can't decide without asking the clerks!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit02spe0082par0587	I can't vote again, sir. Sustained. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0082par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 93rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0083par0003	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0082par0004	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0083par0005	According to Article 13 of our Civil Code, there has been a mistake with your vote just before the break. We demand a re-voting on this issue.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0082par0006	I don't know if you're having an argument based on the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0083par0007	We claim there was a mistake in voting according to Article 13 of the Civil Code, and we demand that this vote be taken again. I'll read the 13th article if you'd like.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0082par0008	Yeah, I know.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0083par0009	The president may open a formal discussion if it is alleged that there has been a significant error in voting and elections in the General Assembly. Are you going to open a formal meeting, Mr. President, or are you going to accept our claim? Mr. President, shall I read 13?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0082par0011	I know, sir.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0083par0012	Sir, make up your mind what you're going to do. Are you going to vote again, or are you going to have a formal discussion?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0082par0013	I'm starting a formal debate. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0084par0015	Against...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0085par0016	Against...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0086par0017	Against...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0087par0018	Lehte...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0088par0019	Against...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0089par0020	Against...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0090par0021	Mr. President, this is the 141st item to be implemented here. He's saying it wrong.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0091par0022	He wanted to start a formal debate, sir.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0090par0023	No, sir, the vote... look, it's been voted according to Article 141. If the mistake had been made, five people would stand up, object to the outcome of the vote.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0091par0024	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0090par0025	This has nothing to do with the 13th Amendment, sir. There's no such thing, sir. There's no irregularities here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0091par0026	Mr. Young, please... he wishes for a formal discussion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0092par0030	Mr. President, what you just did is a violation of the Civil Code and a violation of your mission, your authority. Look, I want to remind you of the Civil Code. Article 16 of the Civil Code states that the duties of the writers are as follows: 1. Inspecting the arrest of records; 2. To write the summary of the report; 3. Reading papers in the General Assembly; 4. Do a roll call; 5. Counting votes... I counted it before you asked the clerks. Second: Article 141...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0093par0039	Mr. Elitaş, you weren't here.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0094par0040	He wasn't in the living room, and he wasn't himself.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0092par0041	▪ Sign in the voting process ▪ The President wants to raise his hand to those who agree to the issue first and then refuse to accept it, declaring that the vote will be voted on in the situations in which the signal should be applied.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0095par0043	You weren't here in the living room, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0092par0044	...Citizens report their votes to the President after the census of the General Assembly...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0096par0045	The president does.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0092par0046	The president and his clerk members, who raise their hand in favor of the matter and against which the vote was put, mark it, find them together. If they can't agree or identify the votes, the president will state how to vote... Mr. President, you haven't applied any of this.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0097par0049	It's a coup, it's a coup!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0098par0050	He did it all, all of it.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0099par0051	You weren't here.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0100par0052	You did what the clerks were supposed to do. Are you a clerk, Deputy Speaker, you have to decide that once.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0099par0053	No, you weren't here, you're reciting!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0101par0054	This is a coup against the House.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0100par0055	Although Mr. Fehmi Cube, the Clerk on your left, warned you...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0099par0056	Who warned you? There's eyes, there's trace!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0100par0057	...Mr. President, there are 70 people on this side, there are 50 people on this side. You said it was agreed without hearing them.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0102par0058	Where are 50 people? There were more of us here than you, how do you know?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0103par0059	Please, calm down and listen.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0100par0060	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0102par0061	We were more than you, more than you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0100par0062	Mr. President, you're there on behalf of the Speaker.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0104par0063	Where were you?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0100par0064	You are obliged to comply with the Civil Code when you serve on behalf of the Speaker of Parliament. While the duties of the clerks are clearly counted in the Civil Code, you are not acting as Parliament Speaker, you are becoming a member of the clerk. The 141st article is about how to vote with a sign.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0105par0065	You weren't in the living room, including you. You weren't in the living room, including you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0100par0066	In a clear way and by asking the clerk members to make this decision, you say, "It's agreed, I've made my decision, even though the clerk has never asked the members and the clerk has warned you."
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0105par0067	There's eyes, there's trace; there's too much opposition.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0100par0068	So, Mr. President, in accordance with Article 13 of the Civil Code, if it is alleged that there has been a significant error in voting and elections in the General Assembly, we claim that there has been a significant mistake, you open a legal debate, and we suggest that you apply again in accordance with this course of discussion; we advise you to correct your decision, to correct your wrong decision. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0105par0071	You weren't in the gym. You weren't in the living room, including you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0106par0072	Mr. Hamzacebi, come in.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0107par0073	Mr. Kamer Young will speak, sir.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0106par0074	Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0108par0076	Thank you. Mr. President, valued MPs, this has nothing to do with Article 13 of the Civil Code. The issue is a vote on a resolution that was discussed in the Turkish Grand National Assembly and reached after the talks. We were here as a group, your group didn't have a majority.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0109par0078	How do you know?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0110par0079	How do you know?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0111par0080	Did you count it?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0112par0081	Yeah, well, let's put the movies in here. There was no majority, counted. After that, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0113par0083	You were here?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0112par0084	Don't talk, don't talk. Don't show your ignorance, we're telling you the truth, learn it. Now, according to Article 141 of the Civil Charter, the President, of course, counts with the Court's secretary, according to the 141st Amendment. Now, so did the president.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0114par0086	Counted what, what?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0112par0087	Oh, wait a minute! Is that what you've been doing so far?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0115par0088	Count it together... read it, it says the clerks count it.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0116par0089	Congressman, please listen quietly.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0112par0090	To this day, Sadýk rules in this House so happily, Ayþe Nur manages so happily. Why isn't he giving you a hard time? Why don't you take it in comparison here? Yeah, well, let's stop and tell you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0117par0091	Mr. President has abused his mission.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0112par0092	According to Article 141, the President said:, "It has been accepted." Now, you could have stood up and said: "Sir, the vote was wrong."
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0118par0094	We're up.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0119par0095	We were up, we were up, you weren't here.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0112par0096	No, you haven't, sir.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0119par0097	We were here!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0112par0098	Yeah, let's get the transcripts. Since there are five people out there and you don't object, the vote is finalized, and there's no need to repeat it.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0119par0099	The members are up, Mr. Kamer, you weren't there.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0112par0100	Guys, we've worked here for years. Now, you, of course, don't know law with most of you, you don't know the Constitution, you don't know the law, you don't know the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0120par0101	You're a coupger. What law!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0112par0102	There were no majority of you here, or rather, the opposition was in the majority. The president said, "It's agreed." I mean, why does it bother you so much? You won't make a law until the government and the commission are in line.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0121par0103	Why don't you ask Soma Abi, don't they feel sorry for her?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0112par0104	Yeah, well, there's no point in making a big deal out of it. You've still been in Congress this long, you haven't learned the way this House works. It's a shame if you bring in someone like Mustafa who's not smart enough to come here and elect a group vice president.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0121par0105	Don't they feel sorry for Soma?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0112par0106	That's what happens after that. So now the President has come out here. He said, "If five MPs had stood up, sir, we'd object to the vote."
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0122par0108	We're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0112par0109	Yeah, well, since there's no such objection here, brother, I think the vote is final.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0122par0110	We objected here, didn't you see? He wouldn't listen!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0112par0111	There's no need for the president to repeat the vote. And since the commission and the government won't, you won't. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0123par0114	Thank you, Mr. Young. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0124par0117	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are one of the preconditions for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly to begin its work, thanks to the Presidential Court. The Court of Presidents, the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, or one of the presidents of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has the duties of all these members of the Court and is clearly stated in the Civil Code. The duties of the clerks are counted in the 16th article of the Civil Code. One of these tasks was to count the votes -- the 5th joke of the 16th article. However, before taking a break, the president who led the General Assembly to vote on the Republican People's Party group's proposal clearly paused the work of the General Assembly, stating that the opinion, opinion, and duty of the People's Party group had been accepted without giving the clerk members the opportunity to do their duty. This clearly violates the Civil Law. In addition, the 141st article of the Civil Code has made the vote very clear with the sign. In his second joke, the members of the secretary state their votes to the President after the census of the votes in the General Assembly. As a result of the vote, it has been approved by the President to the General Assembly. It has not been approved. It is declared by ▪,,,,,,,................... that the president must get the clerks to count the votes before he does it. This is the second violation of the Civil Code. My predecessor, the 141st article, mentioned that the opportunity we were given here was not being used, but please, Mr. President, bring in the minutes.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0125par0121	Mayor, your attitude is correct, don't change it, forget it.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0124par0122	After your statement, at least 15-20 MPs -- including myself -- our Group Vice President Mr. Line, Mr. Bilgin, Mr. Macit, Mr. Kaçir, and many more of our deputies have stated that the vote was wrong, asking you to repeat it. However, Mr. President, you failed to comply with our request, so your attitude is wrong. In a manner of speaking, you have violated at least three articles of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0126par0123	What about disrespecting our will?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0124par0124	It is clear here that even at first glance the General Assembly is clearly overvoted. If this attitude is accepted, such a meeting is created -- there are 200 MPs, 300 MPs, no matter what their will is -- a different will has been granted here. You can say, "It is agreed."
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0127par0125	There is no such thing, the president has decided according to the majority.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0126par0126	He can't disrespect the will here! Disrespect of the will of the House!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0124par0127	Therefore, your attitude is not right, we are against you, so please change your attitude. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0126par0130	Disrespect of will!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0128par0131	You're doing this to keep the subcontractors out of the way?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0129par0132	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0130par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. Actually, there was Mr. Elitaş here a week ago, and he said yes to the adoption of this law. Mr. Steel, we've taken a very positive step here, and we've contributed. He said it must be enforced immediately. But a week ago, he was like this, struggling to say no today. Probably, in the first vote, once -- we counted -- it was definitely more than the opposition majority party. The MPs among you will probably be uncomfortable with this change of attitude, so they may not have taken part in the vote. (MHP and CHP rows) (Bravo (Applause, applause) Surely you have to see this, and that's what happened. That's true, so it's true because the reason for saying "yes" yesterday is not true today.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0131par0138	We're not saying no.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0130par0139	Now, what's there to do here? We're dealing with the Court. It's not right for us to look into the matter with the party plan, like clerk members or something like that in the Court. Has the president announced the outcome on the court? He explained it.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0132par0140	Did we object?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0130par0141	Do you have any objections here?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0132par0142	I do.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0133par0143	I do.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0130par0144	Is there a formal debate coming up? It's opening. The president will make a decision on this, but I must say that the opposition here was more than you, and there was even an open vote demand, and since it was too much, he has withdrawn the motion for an open vote.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0134par0145	Yeah, bravo!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0130par0146	When it's looked this way, the members of the Clerk must count the votes. You say. Well, I'm asking you, shouldn't there be enough meetings at roll call when the House opens? But the rulers say there are enough meetings.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0135par0147	It's a separate item.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0136par0148	That's different stuff.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0130par0149	Well, when those who agree in each case... or no... or those who don't... or those who don't... or those who don't...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0135par0150	It's arranged in that particular article, it's edited in 57.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0130par0151	...even though the decision is not required, shouldn't the author count the number of decisions? It does, but it's called yes without counting.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0137par0152	No, separate matter, separate substance.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0135par0153	That separate item was edited in 57.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0130par0154	So, in view of today's work here, it's very clear and clear.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0137par0155	You have to look at the separate clause, the Internal Charter, the 57th Amendment.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0130par0156	What needs to be done here is the commission doesn't sit down on this discussion, it's postponed, and then tomorrow you bring in a group of suggestions, and then you put this meeting on February 29th, and then you move on, and that's what you do. In that respect, Mr. President, rather than having a discussion about this, the proceedings are already under the Civil Code. As a result of these ongoing procedures, you will make a decision...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0138par0157	We can't just let our will be ignored.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0130par0158	...but the lack of the Justice and Development Party while the opposition is here too long...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0139par0159	No, no, no, not at all.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0130par0160	...not that our opposition is too much, but maybe it's a conscientious rebellion within the Justice and Development Party MPs, and I'd like to say that I see that as a positive one.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0140par0161	It's not like that at all.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0130par0162	Thus, in the Civil Law, it is in the will of the majority that will observe it and eliminate it. This will must exercise its will, and it is not right to ignore our will. My advice is that it would be healthier for them to use their own will to find a solution. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0141par0165	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0142par0166	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0143par0167	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0141par0168	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0142par0169	Mr. Vural also mentioned my name and gave up what he agreed to on Thursday.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0144par0170	You should have ignored our will.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0141par0171	I can't hear, my friends are yelling because I can't understand you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0144par0172	You have no intention of listening to anyone.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0145par0173	Mr. Vural also mentioned my name, saying that we differed today on a matter we agreed on Thursday.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0141par0174	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0146par0175	Right.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0145par0176	If you'll excuse me, he must have teased me about it, and I'd like to speak according to 69.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0147par0177	There's no bullying here.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0146par0178	He's right.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0148par0179	He's right.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0149par0180	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0150par0182	There's no bullying here.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0151par0185	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, look, what we're talking about is all about rules. Right now, the Deputy Speaker's job is unconstitutional, preventing a violation of the Civil Code. Neither I nor Fatih Bey have made a statement regarding the matter in his speech concerning whether or not the proposal of the law should be put in line. We stand by what we say on Thursday, we say exactly. That's what we're saying, including Mr. Secretary. Mr. President, this is not on the red agenda, this bill has not been published. If you look at Article 52, the proposal for the Republican People's Party group must be addressed within 48 hours of the meeting.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0150par0187	According to 37, to 37.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0151par0188	I mean, it's not like we're gonna tell the groups here, either.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0150par0190	You don't know anything, Elitaş. You don't know anything.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0151par0191	You're supposed to be controlling this. Secondly, Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, look, we saw a positive proposal Thursday for the subcontractors not to work in the mines. Our friend who was here that day giving the thank-you speech...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0150par0193	Come on, say it here.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0151par0194	...as if he had accepted the offer of the law. For the first time, a congressman came in and said thank you. We said to Mr. President of the Republican People's Party, to the other friends: Not by adding this to the Social Security Act. The right thing to do is, pull this into the Commission, and we'll accept it, no objection, but we say, let's evaluate it within the basics of the law. I propose again. There's no need for populism here. We're clearly saying: "Let Tabheron take the part about the workers to the Commission, let's discuss it in the Commission, let's put them in their place in the relevant law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm just saying that it's not right for anyone to come in here and be opportunistic by doing populism, which is the meaning and significance of the day. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0152par0200	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0153par0201	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0154par0202	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0152par0203	Mr. Kaplan, he's asked for a promise before, I'll give it to him. Please come in, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0155par0205	I'd like to make it clear to you that we've discussed a proposal in the Civil Code about a vote, and you've asked for those who agree. More than opposition.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0156par0206	It was a lot for you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0155par0207	The AK PARTY people, as Orhan Veli. These airs destroyed me. They were all in the garden, all of them in the garden, but believe me, one third of them didn't raise their hand conscientiously; in conscience.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0157par0208	That's not for you to decide, it's for the clerks to decide.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0155par0209	And he came to his senses, and there were not five in the book, nor were there five in the book, nor did there be five in the house.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0157par0210	Clerks will decide.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0158par0211	Maybe. Maybe the group vice president didn't stand up.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0155par0212	So we're having this argument for nothing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0158par0213	You were sleeping in the air, in this weather. Mrs. Belma stood up and 20 MPs followed her...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0155par0214	They're killing time. There are many of you, and you deny everything.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0158par0215	You were sleeping in this weather.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0155par0216	Then, in 48 hours, after 48 hours, you discussed a thousand laws.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0159par0217	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0160par0218	Mr. President, Mr. Elitaş is asking the MPs, there's no need for that. The main commission can ask for this bill back from now on according to the Civil Code. Use this, use your powers.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0161par0219	He didn't give it to me to ask for it. No, he can't.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0162par0220	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0163par0221	Mr. Hamzacebi, what do you have to say? Here you go.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0162par0223	Sir, now Mr. Elitaş, the Republican People's Party has been taunting us by saying that the group's proposal is against the Civil Code, so the Republican People's Party can't bring this in less than eight hours. However, what we are doing is entirely in accordance with the Civil Law. There is nothing contrary to the Civil Law. He must have made a mockery of it by completely twisting it, sir. I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0164par0225	Not on the agenda, not on the agenda.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0165par0226	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0162par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in fact, I find this argument extremely objectionable. On May 13th, a great disaster took place in Soma.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0166par0231	We're discussing the procedure, the procedure.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0162par0232	...301 of our citizens were killed.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0166par0233	Mr. President, we're discussing the procedure, we're discussing the arbitrary decision, we're not discussing the content right now.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0162par0234	On May 20th, we, the Republican People's Party Group, brought here Mr. Haydar Akar. We decided to end subcontractorship in the mining business.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0167par0235	That's not the point, right now, the number...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0162par0236	With a unanimous vote, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has agreed, all MPs have agreed, and we are happy as a historical day. A week after that, we call it the Republican People's Party Group: let's take this offer in the last row, bring it to the third place on the agenda, and we'll meet as soon as possible. And you object. It's accepted, no, it's non-interviewable.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0168par0237	Unacceptable, unacceptable, sorry.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0167par0238	We're not discussing that right now.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0162par0239	I mean, it was a intimacy test, and we realized that you weren't sincere about it.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0169par0240	You're an intimate cop now? Are you the intimacy police?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0162par0241	You want us to stall it, keep it in the back, bury it in the darkness of history, keep Soma going the same way. Yes, that was your intention. And second of all, Mr. President saw the gym here, and I'm watching the gym here.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0169par0243	We saw it, too.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0170par0244	Clerks saw it, too.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0162par0245	I looked at our group, I looked at the opposition, I looked at the National Movement Party, I looked at the People's Democratic Party, you didn't have numbers here.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0171par0246	It's not your job, it's the clerk's job.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0172par0247	You're the Deputy Director of the Group, not the Clerk.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0162par0248	You're not worried about much opposition, you're ashamed of your lack of opposition, you're ashamed of how you're going to answer to your president. I don't think you should be concerned about this kind of accountability, but you should say: "The Republican People's Party's motion for Soma" has been accepted. Let's change our attitude and start discussing it tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0173par0249	No way!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0162par0250	Are you in, let's start seeing each other tomorrow?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0173par0251	Is that the order that Kılıçdaroglu gave you?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0174par0252	Populism or populism?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0162par0253	Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0175par0255	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Congressmans, this is...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0176par0257	Mr. President, I'm sorry, I asked you to bring me the transcripts in my speech. We've got the reports now. See, at the end of 141, if asked to repeat the vote, the vote will be held again by splitting the hall in two. When we look at the reports: Recep Special (Isparta) is not accepted, sir. Fatih Şahin (Ankara) ▪ Can you count again? Hilmi Bilgin (Sivas) ▪ You make decisions without asking.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0177par0262	So what?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0176par0263	Mihrimah Belma Line 4, Osman Love Five. According to the reports, five people objected. [[Noises in CHP and MHP rows]] You should have split the hall in half and recounted. Please change your attitude, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0178par0266	Or an electronic device...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0179par0267	Those reports are here, Mr. President. They're here.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0180par0268	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0181par0270	The transcripts are here, so please do what you have to do.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0180par0271	Thank you. Please take your seats, please.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0181par0273	Please request the transcripts, Mr. President, our objection is here, please request the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0182par0274	He doesn't need to.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0180par0277	I'll take a look at the reports, sir, and I'm considering that there is no need to correct the motion's vote.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0182par0278	Would you vote, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0180par0279	We continue our negotiations.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0183par0281	You've already made the mistake, you can't judge it yourself, you've already made the mistake.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0184par0282	It's disrespectful, it's disrespectful!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0180par0286	Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration. I'll read it and process it, and then I'll vote for you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0185par0287	Face it, Mayor, you don't have to.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0186par0288	Take him with you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0187par0289	There's no need to vote, Mayor. Admit it.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0188par0290	Don't vote, accept, accept directly. There's no point in voting. Don't even make me read it, Mr. President. Don't tire yourself out. Don't read or vote. That's no way to run a parliament!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0189par0291	Please, remain calm, maintain the majority, please.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0188par0292	Is this the way to run a House?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0190par0293	You don't have to make me read it!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0191par0294	I mean, wouldn't that be the case, Mr. President, you murdered the House.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0192par0295	Mr. President, you don't have to make me read it, go ahead!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0193par0296	No, go on, don't make me read it, why do you make me read it?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0194par0297	Please remain calm. Go ahead, read it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly (2/1138) I respectfully submit that my original Law Proposal should be discussed in the General Assembly according to the Civil Code 37. Here you go, Mr. Dawn.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0195par0305	Look at the reports, the reports.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0196par0306	Why don't you request the transcripts, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0195par0307	Why don't you look at the records?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0197par0308	You're the one who decides to vote, so what's the point?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0198par0309	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, before we started, there have been a lot of demands from road workers, candy factory workers, university graduates working in public, but I have made a direct commitment to the permanent staff of employees in Public Temporary Positions 5620, or to transfer to the permanent staff status or to the temporary labor facility, to make changes in some Laws. As it is known, the 5620 Law on Continuous Staffing of Employees or Contracted Staff Status of People in Temporary Job Positions has been implemented on 04/04/2007. In 2006, temporary workers who worked for a total of six months or more in temporary positions with a visa in accordance with the procedure were granted the right to be assigned to permanent labor staff or contracted staff positions in the form of their will. In some municipalities at that time -- in many municipalities, primarily in Niğde Municipality -- the 1,500-2 mayors must receive a staff due to their misdemeanor procedures. He didn't receive nearly a thousand workers. The workers and workers who work here have nothing to do with it. The damage caused by the failures of the mayors must be repaired in the name of workers, workers and their children, their families, their future. I would also like to point out that thousands of temporary workers in closing municipalities have been terminated and have been left on the street, and the doors of private administrations have been closed to workers. Dear lawmakers, the 49th article of our Constitution has determined the freedom to work, and at this point, the state has been charged with basic assignments and tasks. In addition, the Constitution is the basis of a constitution that operates on the principle of equal rights to equal employment, with Article 55 of our Constitution, and the state shall take the necessary measures to obtain a fair wage in accordance with the work of employees and other benefits. Political disputes between local governments and central government are victimised by workers and workers. In order to obtain a labour visa for the worker, municipalities and central administrations are not compatible, which leads to irreparable loss of rights to the worker. In order for administrative relations not to cause loss of rights and to preserve the basics of the social state, a temporary clause was born to be added to the law. Article 1- Article 5620 is intended to exempt employees from visas before 01,01,2006, which cannot benefit workers from the rights given to the staff by the law no. 5620. Dear friends, under the temporary positions of employees in temporary jobs in People's Number of 5620, the Law on Continuous Workmen's Offices or Contracted Employees' Status, Interim Worker's Work and Changes in Some Laws is required to add a temporary clause to the Law Article 1-04.04.2007 of the 5620 People's Temporal Job Positions of Employees to Continuous Employees or Contracted Staff Status, Temporary Laboring and Changes to Some Laws 4 of the Law. A temporary substance is added to come after the clause. Article 5- Before 01,01,2006 in the implementation of this law, a visa is not required for employees with temporary jobs in municipalities to be recruited for 3 years. Article 2- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. Article 3-The Council of Ministers shall carry out these laws. I hope you will support this bill, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0199par0325	I submit the offer to your votes: those who agree...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0200par0326	You don't have to!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0201par0327	I wanted a promise. Mr. President, I had a say.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0199par0328	Those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, according to the verdict...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0202par0330	It's done, it's done!
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0199par0331	Please, Mr. Lawmakers, I beg you very much. According to the decision taken, we move to the special agenda's part of the agenda. We are starting a general discussion on the Parliamentary Research Commission's Report 427 rows, which was established during the 1st part of this chapter, in order to identify gifted children, identify problems related to their education, and provide effective employment that will contribute to the development of our country. Commission? Here. Government? Here. According to our Civil Code...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0203par0340	Mr. President, shouldn't we be in that law right now? Mr. President, the General Assembly has determined today's work by the motion he agreed to today. Thus, he says until the completion of this law. Then shouldn't we discuss the law?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0204par0342	No.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0205par0343	First we have to discuss this, then we'll discuss the law.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0203par0344	Sir, but look, before this, the Council of Counsellor's proposal says until the completion of the work that will take place on the special agenda. So, how are you going to meet him? The Council of Counsellor's decision says it's until it's complete. Now that this has been accepted, it needs to be discussed.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0205par0345	He won't lift it because it's already been accepted, sir. We'll discuss the law after this is over.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0206par0346	Mr. President, I have something to say.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0205par0347	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0206par0348	We're interviewing all the reports of last semester's parliamentary research commission -- 2012, all of them today.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0205par0349	Yeah, we're seeing the first one.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0206par0350	I have a motion on all of them, but there was also a report from the mining commission. We were both commissioners there, and we had a motion, so Mr. Secretary or the Commission should have a statement. Why are all the research commission reports being discussed, but the mining commission isn't scheduled for today?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0205par0351	It's probably incomplete, I don't know.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0206par0352	No, we did, sir, we gave the Speaker of Parliament in 2010 to the members of the ruling party himself, but on that commission...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0207par0353	Last semester passed, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0205par0354	Now, we're going to see these two today, according to the earlier decision, and we're going to see another report on Thursday, sir. So I'm thinking it's probably his turn next week.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0206par0355	He'll be here next week if he has any intentions.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0205par0356	Now, sir, according to our Civil Code, the parliamentary research commission's report is entitled to the first motion to speak in a general discussion. Later, on behalf of the political party groups, two members will be promised, according to the 72nd article of our Civil Code. In addition, a general discussion on the Parliamentary Commission's report will be completed, with the commission and the government's commitments at their request. According to Article 104 and 103... The deadlines, commission, government and political party groups are 20 minutes each, ten minutes for motions and individuals. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 427 rows. I'm reading the names of the members of lawmakers who were quoted on the report: On behalf of the groups, İstanbul MP Hasip Kaplan, İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serter, İstanbul MP Fatma Serter; Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut on behalf of the Party's Democratic Party of Rights, Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Ayhan on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Emerhan Halici, İstanbul MP Hüseyin Bürge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; İstanbul MP Halide İncekara on behalf of the group; İstanbul MP Ahmet Duran Bulut on behalf of the People's Party. Now, as the first speaker of the motion, I would like to call Ankara MP Tülay Selamoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Selamoglu... I call the second speaker, Adana MP Ali Halaman... [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Halaman. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0208par0366	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, dear MPs, on behalf of the National Movement Party and myself, I salute you with respect and love. Congressmans, in the past period of these gifted children, which we believe is necessary for our country to have a more prosperous future, we have also submitted a parliamentary inquiry proposal in the 57th century, in order to make the intelligent and talented children into adults who will play important roles in the future, and to contribute to the development of our country. Commissions have been established, there have been studies, but time has passed, and because of the circumstances in our country -- especially the Ministry of National Education -- there has been no serious activity that has been brought forward about these highly gifted children. Today, despite the fact that the AKP has been in power for ten years, we have proposed a parliamentary research proposal in the past period to make sure that children who graduated from universities were not appointed teachers, at least 300,000 teachers were not present as teachers, but that they were able to identify gifted children. Because of this motion, I have made a promise. The other members of parliament -- the AKP, the Republican People's Party, the BDP -- formed a commission by combining these motions, as lawmakers submitted a motion on the matter. The chairman of this Commission was Halide İncekara, our Istanbul MP, from the party, who was the president of the Commission. At the point where the Halide Hanım Commission has been working very seriously for three months -- both abroad and abroad -- is recently called science, wisdom or nanotechnology -- in these areas, all of its prominent names, including ÜBİTAK, have taken long-term ideas in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, including universities, where science and arts centers -- exist in almost 60 districts of Turkey -- are physically able children's intelligences minds. Beyond that, the institution has made the commission tell the commission what should be done -- in art, in sports, in invention, in invention, in invention -- in terms of what should be done -- by inviting prominent, self-aware figures to the Assembly, to listen to them. Not only that, but using the opportunities of Parliament, Istanbul, from time to time found the opportunities to contribute to schools, science, art centers, science high schools, high schools of Asia Minor, universities that sometimes stand out, lawmakers, reporter friends, to visit us, to report, and to contribute with their own thoughts. Not only that, but also by using the resources of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- which we call abroad -- in the European country, in the sense that the nation of the world is moving forward in response to people's needs -- in the sense that it is considered superior in technology -- in the last 50 years, in our last 50 years of history -- to visit Germany in Europe, Germany, in terms of information, communication, so in the automotive industry -- in the case of events going forward. When we went to South Korea as a team -- and I was there for them -- the universities there, the two-year institutes -- at the explorer point, at the inventor point, commercial institutions, institutions, institutions, establishments that go forward, without rest, by working with our fellow commissioners, and at the point of finding a difference by comparing it with Turkey, there was a report that came to today by doing what we call the goals called. So, today, I hope, in a time when this report, number 427, appears to be discussed in the Grand National National Assembly of Turkey, and this report appears to be the National Ministry of Education -- perhaps as a concerned ministry -- that schools, education, superior children remain in the middle -- this Parliament -- this very precious, multitasking report -- will bring this government to its place of execution and execution -- and I expect you all to submit a report on national education, even though it is known that this government has sunk to its very low. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0209par0374	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Ankara MP Tülay Selamoğlu... Here you go, Mr. Selamoglu.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0210par0378	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. I have been promised to be a member of this commission and to make a motion on the discovery of highly skilled children, to identify problems related to their education, and to provide effective employment for the development of our country. The emphasis on the education of superior talent in society and the support of talent will improve individual happiness by allowing the individual to use its potential at the highest level, while contributing to social development and country development. In the common sensibility of all political parties in parliament, in the work of the top talent commission, all of which have been established by their proposals, we've received their information, especially by calling all the academics working in this area, listening to the authors' work, reviewing and visiting the practices of the public and private sector, meeting with officials of the state institutions and institutions that we think should or should be responsible for this matter, and in three groups, we've visited and studied the practices of three countries -- South Korea, New Zealand and Germany. I was on the German visiting committee during these visits. I'm going to talk about the examples in Germany, and in the end, I'm going to end up with the part where we pass on our general thoughts, especially with the reports of our friends going to other countries. Education practices in Germany are carried out by the decision of the state legislatures. Each state has its own curriculum, its own rules. There's only one thing in common: 4+4+4. Düsseldorf, in particular, makes the selection for superior talent after the fourth grade. We have seen that all states leave themselves alone until the fourth grade to complete physical development and continue with special training. After the fourth grade, three additional classes come in at four fourths, even though the classrooms are mixed. The most important issue is the organizing of holiday academys and camps in Düsseldorf. These gifted children on creativity, natural sciences, robotics and mathematics are being taken to camp during the summer and followed by their interests, group studies are being followed. It's the property of Frankfurt, and it's a system that's actually applied in some parts of us at some time: Flexy classes. For the first four years, 1, 2 and 3, 4th graders are trying to activate the flexic classrooms in 100 percent of the 1,000 schools and Frankfurt Education Ministry in all schools, and they see it as a success in education, and they are, in fact, being accompanied by private teachers -- they are not called teachers, they are trying to teach -- they are trying to teach them to learn. There's a different app in the lower Frankonia section. After the 6th grade, children study together at points of interest and skills in upper classes, so the 7th grader and 12th grader do the same course, math class, or interest in a social course or sports study together. In Munich, the system begins from the sixth grade, but it is trained to enrich. They bring students together in different age groups after the sixth grade. When we look at the applications in these states and other states, the system is on 4+4+4, and the active work, the density tracking system is after the fourth grade. We've seen that the biggest problem in Turkey begins with recognition after we've studied the information that all academics have given us, all the studies, institutions, applications in other countries. Because at first, we need to figure out that we have children of superior intellect, children of superior ability, but how do we discover them? In particular, these may be individual applications, awareness of the family, or studies that can be followed by schools within the school where they are located, or directly followed by school notes. Let's say we did the diagnostic, we did the diagnostic, but who's gonna be assigned to the diagnostic team? So, when we looked at who could take part in the diagnostic -- in the advice of country practices and experts -- pedagogs, psychologists, educators, arts and sports. Well, the family says: "My child is highly gifted. " In what method will we recognize it? This time we're entering skills, motivations and skills systems, but in Turkey, we've realized that there is no Turkish logic or testing system. It's usually applied in translation. Translations... the methods of other countries turn into translations in Turkey, and even these translations make mistakes. I think there was an incident in the 1980s. The question given to the child is: make two new words out of the word "house" in English. We are talking about a five-letter word. The translator did so directly: "Make two new words out of the word "house. " I mean, sometimes you have to measure the intelligence levels of these translators at that time. But, after they've been identified, we've seen that for Turkey, Turkey has to be created by our own logic, from our point of view, the test of intelligence, which is institutional. Is it just a test of mathematical intelligence called logic, shape, and form? No, for 77 million... We have talented athletes, talented artist children, who need to be tested for skills, logic and talent. Usually it's not just that, it's a psych evaluation and a group follow-up. Well, we've recognized it, but let's start to identify it at the age of... general advice starts at.3 years of age, until the end of the 4th grade. About education practices, okay, we've recognized them, how do we apply them, what kind of application will come in the mandatory training model? There's a curriculum, there's rules, but beyond that, there are talented children in some areas. And in this area, early schooling, class jumping, class reunification, education enrichment, after-hours special programs, supporting individual skills, but most importantly, common courses in universities. General practice: In Germany, the 12th grade is the common system in universities, and one practice is the study and support department in the 11th grade. For a child who has been identified at the age of 3 during mandatory pre-school notices, there are chapters that must be followed from pre-school to the end of the 12th grade. But these children are very important to us because these children are not just our future, but the future of his family, but the future of the world, of mankind. I thank all of our MPs, especially our Commissioner, for the work our Commission has done in this area, because it was in harmony and in the same spirit. The most important issue, in this group, is the educational issue in Turkey, because it's the same in every country. ▪ Are you going to teach gifted children or are you going to be a mentor? Being a guide is the main thing. In this regard, national education must work, which should be supported within the system. Because it's not just a matter of national education, it's a matter of consulting services and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. We will surely do everything we can as institutions and countries to support individual abilities to win these children that Plato called golden children. We want both our country and civilization to win. We know that there may be Einsteins, Mozarts, among children who have been subjected to violence, married early, and given weapons in the mountains. We're trying to win them in this system. I believe that every group should support our children in this matter. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0211par0396	Thank you, Mr. Selamoglu. Mersin MP Çiğdem Münevver Ökkük. Here you go, Mr. Kökten.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0212par0400	Mr. President, I'm here to present you with a report on the commission work we've done on the discovery of highly skilled children. I salute you all. First of all, once again, I ask God's mercy and patience for those who were killed in the mine accident in Soma district of Manisa. Congressmans, it is the most basic human right for a community of people like us, with over 30 million young populations, to receive government support, making up 2 per cent of the population. It glows like a comet with a superior ability to light the path of planets in its own age; it doesn't go hand in hand with the normal course of culture; rather, it throws its work far ahead of its path. In fact, when we look at it, aren't these super-talents who shape the world as well? If Einstein, who had failed in school, had not been angry with his life and dreamed of riding on a ray of light and traveling at the same speed, would he still have removed the famous statue of David, which Michelangelo believed was hidden inside the marble block if he had not been able to train on that road? Again, if the architect Sinan had been prevented from achieving the impossible, would those masterpieces have appeared? What we need to do is enlighten their path and support their progress. That's why I've been studying in this sense, not just in our country, but abroad. So we went to various countries of Europe. Our friend also talked about the work in Germany, and I want to talk about the work in the district of North Rhine-Westphalia of Germany. Because the Deputy Minister of Education of this state is a Turk. According to the gentleman, there are some differences from state to state due to the federal structure, but we see that the general educational structure is similar in Germany. The State School Council has decided not to have separate education, stressing that the gifted children are supported in their classrooms. Again, there is no school for superior talent, not at the request of the diagnosis, guardian, or teacher. In Düsseldorf, local governments are very active. When it is discussed with the authorities at the centre about the superior talent of the local educational agency, we see that it was founded by the joint motion of all political parties and in 2003, which should be an example for our country as well. Because in the centre, working groups are formed from kindergarten to upper secondary school, and the centre consults on superior talent and conducts diagnostic studies, allowing public awareness through brochures and the Internet. The centre offers diagnostic and guidance from 4 to the university, and also provides a service education for teachers. Children, family, teacher's educations are also performed with them. Not all children who apply to the centre are tested for intelligence; this is a very important thing because the student's file, which includes information called product file and the teacher's views, is a prerequisite for this child's diagnosis. The gifted children are not trained in separate schools or classrooms, but are trained to support students according to their abilities. For free camps, child enrichment programmes are implemented, and children are given support courses, particularly philosophy lessons -- this is very important. The State School Council has decided not to open a separate educational institution for special talented children, and its applications in the education system are: One: there is practical training in or out of school. Number two: they're given the opportunity to learn from the top, to learn from the university. Class-jumping and class-reunification are made, which is very important. I think all of this should be considered with the changes in our educational system. In addition, at Deutschhaus Gymnasium High School, students who are recognized as superior are given separate education in private classes. The school has two fundamental distinctions of talent, including intelligence and athletic ability. For school students, different programmes are being implemented for students to learn quickly and are not the main goal of the final exam. Again, at the Frankfurt Goethe University Main Kind Institute, children are directed by school, standardized intelligence tests are used in diagnostics, and students are given the right to take classes from the university, including a class jump, acceleration or enrichment programme, as a result of tests from the age of four to 18. Families are also given special seminars at this point, and the content of the enrichment program -- how it will be -- the mentors decide. Members of parliament, a mentally healthy child is a child whose self-worth has been discovered. What we call a superior ability is not only a burden when discovered and understood, because ununderstanding and unappreciated intelligence first becomes a harm to the soul of that individual, and then to society. When discovered and understood, however, children are no longer a burden to their families and educational institutions. In all of Turkey, the highly gifted children, which make up 2 percent of the young population, have unfortunately not seen the necessary support so far, but I hope this Research Commission does the impossible. This Commission has cleared the way for the beginning, my friends. Most importantly, the Ministry of National Education, the implementation of the Special Forces Strategy and Appliance Plan, which is co-organised with the SEC, TÜBITAK. This plan includes studies on the recognition of highly skilled individuals, education, training of staff, organisation of educational environments. In addition, multi-models in our country have been envisioned, individualized and enriched, accelerated, by individualized, individualized by the interest, skill and potential of the individual, which is based on sharing information and experience rather than on one type of practices for highly skilled individuals and in common education. Thus, a new era begins for highly skilled individuals in knitting and widespread education. The proposed training models are based on scientific research, flexible, differences, the most efficient use of resources, the planning, implementation, and evaluation of events that allow individuals to produce a product using their creativity. It is necessary to monitor our children's development in learning and revealing their creative potential that intelligence alone will never do any good. The system we call recognition should be directly proportional to the cultural, ethnic, sociological structure of our society. When we create the intelligence recognition system of our own country, then we don't alienate our young people and we begin to understand them. Because highly skilled children are not tools to achieve the country's strategic goals. Our children should be happy individuals who trust and feel that the future of the Republic of Turkey belongs to this country. This is the only way to shape what we call creativity. The fine line we call genius can thus be placed on a productive line. Because superior talents begin to explore, produce, question, and use their emotions before their peers, their sense of justice and conscience are highly developed. They need to be psychologically supported by the logic of values, and it's essential. Overachievers who have no education for values, who are not properly directed, are mentally ill in the event that they lack the environment and attention to make their higher energy efficient, and are pushed out of society. Friends, we must work not with lost youth, but with the units of the entire state for the well-earned youth. That's the only way this country can develop. Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0213par0422	Thank you, Mr. Euthanol. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0214par0426	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, then we have submitted this motion on behalf of the BDP, and now I salute you on behalf of the People's Democratic Party. In our motion, we had benefited from the establishment of a research commission in very different areas, especially in our young population, our children, our future, in education and employment, including the ability to learn fast and keep what they have learned in mind longer. This Commission says that there are about 2.5 to 3 percent of the world's population, including those entering this category. Other party groups have similar motions on this issue. I'd like to thank our friends who work for this Commission. But at some point, I'd like to open up his shortcomings here in the presence of the Minister, where he can't see. Why do I want to open it? Because we know there are educators involved in this beautiful work. But especially in Chapter Seven, when it comes to national and international legislation and superior children, the concept of human rights law and the rights: Turkey has 76 million populations, different cultures, languages live in a large part of this population, and the main language truth -- unfortunately, the Constitutional truth -- is given to minority schools on a certain level in accordance with Article 42, where only the government has the ability to study within the official language. Now, I'm not going to go into this: We're burning with Soma's pain, and of course, if a black Doblo with fake plates is driving around the country to kidnap a child, what would you try to do first in that country? To ensure your children's right to live, this is the mission. If a gas flare hits a kid in the head when he goes to buy bread, you guarantee his right to live. We have friends here who go to prison. Place your hand on your conscience, child rapes in Posanti Prison to the prisoners, Sincan, elsewhere, in the new Adana. I'm not going to get into that. But I'd like to get into this: isn't a report that doesn't include native language education a monologue, my friends? Main language education... Which you passed yourself, which is taught in some languages at school. I've told the Minister many times, and I said, "Please, 400-500 teachers from Artuklu University are waiting for a transfer, for God's sake! Look, that's the number for 20 million. Now, why do I feel like I have to say this? Because there's a report here that points to national law and contracts, in a comprehensive way. Now, this report is based on rights and equality, human rights, basic human rights, and universal statements about children with superior abilities. Well, as a country in the G20. As a country in Turkey, the hand is a conscience... We are one of the 20 developed countries, the 17th or 16th economy. Well, for God's sake, isn't it cruel to put the Children's Rights Convention when you hesitate to speak your language when you sign it? What intelligence are you going to develop by banning someone from learning their native language? Isn't it still about language, when you hesitate to put the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights? Is it not persecution to put it in a recession in the Economic and Social Contract, again? Friends of the Children's Rights Convention, all reservations are about language. Let the non-Turkish people die in this country, not grow up, not grow up, not read, not grow up, not learn too much. This is persecution, my friends. These should be in this report. In the European Union's process, why does Turkey insist on signing the framework agreement? A language whose minority rights are under status... Well, for God's sake, I'd still like to say that when you take the basic principles of mother language teaching -- there are phases of this, in education, pedagogy and so forth -- think of one child's language in teaching his own language -- different language studies, various courses and tools, all of that is one thing, all of that is one. Now, when I count these things, I come up with a criteria for language scientists and they say that, after separating children according to their age and categories, to get a good education, they say: Here, they have phases of primary language education -- they keep them at 14, 15 -- they have to pass certain educations at certain ages. Now, here's a Constitution that prohibits language of education, prohibiting laws, reservations on international contracts, and then, we're going to talk about the future of our children here, we're going to talk about their intelligence, they're going to be gifted. Minister, a student of ours at Cizre Fen High School, Miryem Bayram, has developed a project. This project is an alternative way to reduce polymer resolution time in nature. I mean, these plastic bags are being thrown out, and they live as garbage for a hundred years, the process of... Dear Lamb, I'm talking about something very useful if you listen, the resolution of polymer. Instead of polluting nature for a hundred years, a student at the science high school in Cizre is developing a project that reduces it to three years, four years. Also in Georgia -- when our Faysal brother is there with the President -- the world gets second place in the competition among 43 countries, 124 finalists. His native language was Kurdish. Believe me, we know a lot about a second language, two languages, multilingualism, hypocrisy. We actually have friends, educators, who are experts at this. Amin Maalouf is going to write a novel in French or the concepts of people who write novels in other languages. But I would like to point out that, of course, in the Olympics, such a discovery has certainly attracted our ministry's interest. There are projects like this, there are programs like this, but when you don't create the legal infrastructure of something, and you don't provide equality to those people in the country, you're an equal citizen, you're a child of this country, you're taxing this country, you can benefit from all the benefits of this country. And when the population of the people of the country is with millions, millions of children will use their future in a language that both in their native language and official partnerships... Which all schools now have two languages and three languages, friends. You shouldn't be afraid of that. Believe me, when a Kurdish population in the Middle East, Syria, Iraq, Iran, Bashur, Bashilat, Rojava, nearing 50 million, learns its official language and its native language, it will have a better chance to improve itself. I invite you here, Minister, this report lacks salt; salt, salt is missing in this report. Everything's fine, but when you don't put salt in it, this food will be salt-free. The salt of equality is missing. I wish you'd sprinkle some equal salt into this. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0215par0442	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serter. Here you go, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0216par0446	Thank you. Mr. President, this report on highly gifted children is a product of a very serious, extensive, and valuable work done with great sacrifice. I'd like to thank Mr. Halide Incekara, for the way he behaved when I started speaking. (CHP and AK PARTY) We've done a very efficient, very egalitarian study, where all sorts of opinions are shared very easily. And the most important part of that is the President of the Commission, and I believe that you have to hand it over. Now, the report has been prepared, unfortunately, but for the first time, a report on such an important subject came on the agenda of the General Assembly a year and seven months later, involving important breakthroughs in Turkey's top-talented children. For one thing, I'd like to express my regret about this loss. The reports include findings, suggestions. This report also contains extensive, extremely scientific, and serious studies and findings that include domestic and abroad, and there are really practical suggestions. However, reports make no sense when they stand on library shelves and those applications are not put into existence. For him, I wish that the suggestions in this report, which we have prepared with great hope and excitement, be put into practice, and that the necessary arrangements for their education and employment should be made quickly, starting with the diagnostic process of the highly gifted children who are truly very important to our country. Dear lawmakers, when we say "recognising," the best place for the discovery of these children is undoubtedly the best environment for the school environment, but in the school environment, the environment needs to be first available for those findings to be made. Mr. Minister, you don't address some of the conditions of education in Turkey because you are Minister, of course, but I believe you know very well. In a teaching model where the physical conditions of schools are not enough, the number of teachers and qualities are not enough, and the class is high -- let's be realistic -- how are we going to find children with superior intelligence and talent, and how are we going to find them? Our schools are still being trained in 30 per cent of the combined classroom, as well as the number of schools. He teaches together in the first, second, third and fourth grade, one teacher. Now, this teacher will look at it, and among those children is this superior mind, and this one has a superior talent for this one. A third thing, the schedules. What are we going to give the student if we want to find talent? We're going to teach him a lesson that determines his ability. There is, we're looking at elementary school, we have visual arts a week. In that one-hour course, we wait for the unskilled homeroom teacher to look at the subject and determine what visual arts he has or has a superior talent for. There's an hour of music class. In which music room, with which instruments will be taught this lesson, and the child's ability to do so will be identified. There's no gym or sports in elementary school, so instead, there's a course called physical activity and so on. Gym and sports are starting in middle school. In which gym, in which tools, in which training tools will be shown, we ask, for example, how will these skills be identified, for example, how the child is capable of gymnastics, swimming, basketball, football -- this variety of education -- will be offered. As we ask all these questions, we must, of course, question certain decisions and practices after this report is prepared. For example, on 5/11/2013, the School and Sports Club regulations were lifted. What was that regulation for? It was good for getting the ball to school, for getting the basketball hoops, for providing the necessary sporting goods. Now, gym teachers come to me, and I can't teach gym because they don't have any tools or equipment left. So, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you this: please, if you solve this, we'll be contributing to the discovery of new abilities. Another question: Who has decided that in vocational and technical schools, there will be no gifted students in sports? On 28/1/2014, the Office General of vocational and Technical Education has decided that PE classes should be gradually removed from vocational schools. I'm also asking you, Mr. Secretary, who, how, why has decided that these schools will not be able to raise gifted students in sports? And the centers of science and art are the only ones where our gifted children can be educated. When we look at these centers, I see a very upsetting change. Look, I went to rainbow schools where the disabled are trained. It's a beautiful, state-owned school. The disabled and absent student is educated together. I saw that a teacher was assigned to the problem of a single disabled student and that guidance counselor was interested in only one student in the room. I'm really flattered. Now, let's come to the institution that teaches the children of superior talent. 1, Mr. Minister, the number of counselors has been reduced to 1. IN THE CENTURY, the assistant directorship of the BILSEMs was removed, with the number of students less than 200 students. There's only one teacher assigned to a major in these schools. Now, why don't we consider contributing to our gifted students as much as we contribute to our disabled students? We're coming to the Ministry of National Education Internal Control Report. The National Ministry of Education Interior Control Report is reserved for students with a thousandth of a share of the overall budget for sub-intelligent groups. This is a numerical statement in the Ministry of National Education Interior Control Report. Now, here's to all the other possibilities that you've brought in for talent detection with 4+4+4. You said it was an elective course. There should be at least 10 students to prove the student's ability in that elective class. Most can't be done because the teacher can't be found. I can't go into detail because I'm out of time for this and so on -- we don't want to despair from many applications. But I ask you, please, take a look again at what flaws there are in the internal audit report of the Ministry of National Education. My wish, my goal, is to win the children with superior talent for Turkey's future. But I thank all my fellow congressmans who contributed in this study again, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0217par0461	Thank you, Mr. Serker. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0218par0465	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. We're discussing the commission report on the detection, education, problems of the gifted children. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, we present our views. Dear MPs, 11 million of our children are studying in primary school and secondary school in Turkey. 3% of these children are highly intelligent; the detection of German experts, and so is the world literature. So we have about 330,000 intelligent, gifted children. The system has only identified 15,000 of them, 15,000 of them trained, others... a knife becomes a scalpel, a doctor saves a life; a knife falls into the hands of a killer, destroys life, kills people. These kids are so special. So our wealth, our gold, our mine is not our oil; I assure you, these children are our greatest wealth. The fact that this has been realized, the fact that this work has been done, the establishment of this Commission, is a huge breakthrough, a huge success. I was the first President of the Commission because of age, but with the vote count Mr. Tüykara became the Commissioner; and it was a good thing that I knew him -- that I met him on that occasion -- that he created a harmony in the Commission, in the way he acted, in the way he did, in the way he did, in the way he did, in the way he did. I, too, thank you Mr. Tüykara. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, intelligence is not fate. Yeah, God gave these kids brains. We may have children, we may have children of another, these children are rich, poor, not in this language; God has given them to us. We can't detect them, but there's a point science comes from which intelligence isn't fate, and we can raise the intelligence of a child in scientific ways if we want to. Those who have money provide it to their children in private schools, private courses. My government doesn't appreciate what it has; within its cumbersome structure, our 330,000 children are geniuses within the interior of this National Ministry of Education, who don't see, don't see, don't see, don't realize; few come in, who don't get scolded by the teacher because he's not interested in the lecture, who's out there, who's a gang leader, who's out there making fun of the police, the state, the law themselves. All the countries of the world care about these people, these precious beings, they know it. Look, the Soviets, President Putin, who the world is looking at because it's broken down, have been seen in recent years through Prime Minister Medvedev, a noticeable merger, a recovery. These are both highly skilled people who were detected and trained by the system at a very young age. The values that important leaders can come out of, the values that scientists will come out of, are absolutely good, planned, programmed, and need to be put into the system. Our Ministry of National Education doesn't have a special directorate that deals with our children. These children are considered in almost the same way as our disabled children within the General Directorate of Special Education and Guidance Services. One quarter of the budget for disabled children is divided into these. In Israel, 800 euros a month are earmarked for a gifted child. We don't want any of this. The government contributes to carriers carrying disabled children, bringing disabled children to school. However, these highly skilled children -- many poor family children -- have difficulty coming to schools. Their parents were already in a panic; the child started asking questions at the age of two, learning to read and write at the age of three, and saw his child, who had been married to the president of another four - year - old, and was amazed. Now, in our country where such values exist, such intelligent children, we need to first assess them. Who's going to make the determination? Of course, parents, those who are aware of it, those who are concerned are following it. They don't know who to tell, he's 3 years old, he's asking questions, he's confused, Mom and Dad. The child will come to the school, which will pass the first, second, third, third grade, which is relevant in the fourth grade, and about that, if there is a teacher who is well-versed and educated in this subject, he will say: This is how this child will take the test, and this child will be educated in 64 provinces of science and art. As our esteemed congressman has just stated, there is a weakness in governance. He'll find 200 people so the principal and the vice principal can become a team. In each major, a teacher would have been given a teacher in these schools by 2007, so the teachers who were elected to these schools were qualified teachers. They were self-aware of it, working hard to raise and to take good care of these children, no overtime, they were the chosen teachers. They did not come with specific advice, but with a test. After 2007, these teachers were suspended from their exams. Now the bride of the so-and-so, the lady of the so-and-so, and so-so, our friend's next of kin, these schools, to bring them from the village to the city, they've become the centers used to bring them to work, not to find a place for the man. Of course, the yield is going down around here, as in other normal schools, as in the Ministry of National Education. They will be pursued by people who are highly trained to identify their shortcomings. There is a department in Istanbul, a university where teachers are trained to teach at these schools. Colleges like mushrooms run out in Turkey. Here, we come and we lift our fingers, we build our universities. The education faculty is all majors, but we don't have any sensitivity to opening up any of these specialties. The lawmakers, the people who brought it to the MPs, may consider it a challenge, a challenge, a expense. A manager, a seal, here's college. The children who have come out, the 300,000 candidates for teachers, make us teachers at our gates. However, in Turkey, unfortunately, we did not leave a teaching institution. There was an example of village institutes, a Turkish model, where poor children from all over Asia Minor, people from every class, could come and study there. They had teaching schools, so we turned them into teaching schools. Now under the name of education colleges, many of whom have not been assigned to a pedagogic form as well as their majors, as long as they don't get a pedagogic form, we are setting up a floor for an art teacher as long as he has to cross over the others in English, in math questions, in KPSS scores, and then finish KPSS University, and then we're making a commitment to finish the university, and then we're making the basis for it, as long as it takes people's morale to break down, and we're causing them to get into the fountain of despair, and we're the valuable MPs. So that's 330,000 kids -- it could be 350,000, it could be 400,000 -- we've only been able to lay hands on 15,000 of them, put them under a roof, under a roof, trying to train them. The cost of these children coming to these centers has to be paid by the government... these children are now more than their parents... children of this nation, children of the state. We need to be sure that if we take these children into special protection, they will be very brilliant geniuses in our country's future, if they can cut back on their education, their manners, their clothing, their lives, their expense to many places in the state. Dear lawmakers, these young people, children of the INSEM, of course, have many problems. These kids should be able to get in regardless of their scholarship exams, their income status. He's getting a scholarship exam, the kid's father, his mother's a teacher, and he looks like he's got a high income; on the other hand, he can't get a scholarship in a different way. These kids need scholarships, no exams, they're already chosen, elected. And in that, there's justice to be served. Science high schools were founded, very important schools, with a significant contribution to the growth of science in the country. In order to get the minister's kid, the congressman's kid, the general manager's kid, so on and so forth, we broke down the way the cataculs went in, lowered the quality, made it a normal high school, like the Anatolian high schools. There should be elite schools in the country, elite teachers in these elite schools. These teachers need to be well trained, to see practices in different countries around the world, and to spend special shifts on these special children. Dear lawmakers, these schools have children doing projects. Sometimes there are projects that are so efficacious that, for example, they arrange a trip to France, get 200 euros from the parents, and show them only one dam in France. It's far too far from showing these schools, these educational centers, where teachers are going to go through this kind of expense that's going to put parents in trouble just to give them a trip. The children of teachers who work in different ministries are treated differently. I mean, a teacher's child at the National Education Department takes advantage of the quota of having a teacher's child, but that's not the right for a teacher working at Child Protective Services. Associations are set up on this issue, associations for highly gifted children are being established. Are these associations for the good education of these children? What purpose does it serve? What we don't realize, what most of us don't know, what we haven't discovered, but what we'll find is that these values will be very important in the future, that these associations will be controlled by the state, that they can't be randomly dry, that they can't be randomly controlled and controlled by the state, that our values really shouldn't be wasted. Dear lawmakers, the education is under constant management and programme change. I mean, look, in the 11-year period of AKP ruling, Mr. Minister, the 5th minister. Every incoming minister puts up a system of his own. Look, we brought in a 4+4+4 system, and we've got a vote here. By law, we opened our way into elementary school when we were 60 months old. Here it says that a child's hand muscles develop in 72 months. We said, "Don't send these children here until you've completed your development of intelligence. This is wrong." Do you know what happened, Congressman? 82 percent of our children who went to these places couldn't read, and 82 percent of our children who went to these schools when they were 60 months old couldn't read. Children have been transformed into people used in power labs, like lab rats. This is an indication that our resources, which have no knowledge of education, no education, no staff in the Ministry, no experts to consult with them when they bring them here. I know them by my votes. It's a sign that our resources, our values, are wasted because of a false view of education in their understanding. Dear lawmakers, my advisor lives in Balıkesir, his wife is in Polatlı. I haven't been able to get her husband transferred in a year. I'd like to commend you on how to support these children, let alone the normal student of a ministry who can't fulfill the morale and motivation of his own staff, who despises his teacher. Victims at this point are extreme in many ways. Your man, my man, whose education has been brought to the heads of education by educational institutions in Turkey, unfortunately, the World Economic Forum 2014 Global Information and Technologies Report, where you are not valued for a right to be appointed, you should be appointed for a certain score. We're ranked 63... on Internet access to schools in 148 countries. The PISA 2012 Student Performance Report of the Finnish Economic Co-operation and Development Organization, whose short name is OECD, ranks 42°th in the field of mathematics in 65 countries; our country ranked 41st in reading with 471 points; and science ranked 45°th with 463 points. Dear lawmakers did not answer one correct answer on the YGS test of 900,000 students -- about 2 million students involved in the YGS on March 29th; 420,000 students did not answer a single question in math questions. In a structure like this, it's 4,500 in Turkish, 83,000 in social sciences. Whose fault is it? Absolutely, Mr. Secretary, review your situation. Your powers led the Ministry of National Education badly. The power has no educational policy. I thank all my friends who have done the work of this report, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit03spe0219par0491	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Congressmans, I'm gonna take a 45-minute break.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0219par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 93rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue to talks with Parliamentary Research Commission 427 ranked Report 427, in order to ensure the discovery of gifted children, the detection of problems related to their education, and the effective employment of our country's development. The commission and the government are in place. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, it now belongs to Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Ayhan. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0220par0007	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the report of the Parliamentary Research Commission on the identification, education and employment of highly skilled children. Before I begin my words in this frame, I salute the General Assembly. Before we begin our thoughts and opinions on the evaluation, education and employment of gifted children, I would like to first express and convey our criticism of the current reviews of the report's report. As it is known, there are commissions to investigate different matters in order to inform the Parliament and the public, according to the 98th Articles of the Constitution and Article 104 and 105. Unfortunately, the establishment of these commissions is also a monopoly on the ruling party. Many of the content, scope, results and proposals of the board's parliamentary research commissions reflect the ruling party's views, mainly. As mentioned earlier, the operation of these research processes parallels the ruling party's political agenda. In other words, the government operates parliamentary research commissions as a means of softening the agenda in areas where it is politically trapped. With that understanding, almost all of the key research commission proposals submitted by opposition parties are rejected by the AKP's government. Our second key criticism of research commission processes is that the report results should not be taken into account by public institutions and organisations, particularly government officials, and that changes and regulations expressed in the commission reports should not be implemented by the administration. There have been many examples of this, in fact, since the past, that the commission reports have not been considered. We have seen the most painful example of this recently in the mine disaster in Soma. If the results and proposals of the Parliamentary research commission, established in 2010 to investigate problems in the mines, were taken into consideration by the ministry and government officials, this disaster would not have happened, according to official figures, 301 of our people would not have died. A similar situation occurs because the Parliamentary Research Commission report on preventing child abuse is ignored. It is possible to increase these examples. And that makes it clear to us that now, the government must immediately give up its political interest-giving approach to the research commission processes. In this sense, it should co-operate with the opposition's proposals, as part of democracy. He must also give up the attitudes and approaches that make the work central to him, and with the results of the results of the parliamentary research commissions established, the necessary arrangements must be carried out immediately. In this sense, we hope that this report will not be considered as just a written document, forgotten like the previous reports. The Ministry of Education and the relevant ministries will consider the commission report, and despite all its shortcomings, the necessary changes and arrangements will be carried out immediately. Dear lawmakers, when the commission report is examined, we see that assessments of the discovery, education and employment of gifted children are far from a holistic approach. By depriving it of other social and political contexts, it has only reduced it to a technical problem. The problem has been discussed mainly in terms of the problems of legislation, family education, capital, education and science and arts centres, and the conditions in Turkey have not been taken into account. None of the concepts of poverty, violence, political and cultural tensions and conflicts, injustice and inequality, discrimination, other discrimination, assimilation, denial, and so on have been found fundamentally involved. The main problem in Turkey is not the discovery of gifted children. The fundamental problem is that millions of children who are left out of the children of very few families who are in good socioeconomic condition lack the conditions where they can reveal knowledge, interest, skill, and abilities. The burning truth of this country is child poverty before it comes to gifted children. 46 million people in Turkey live below the hunger limit. This tells us that millions of children can't afford to feed even minimally for a healthy development. If we want the discovery of superior talent, the emergence, the effective contribution to country development, first we have to deal with this problem, which is basically socioeconomic policies that we need to develop. In connection with child poverty, child labor is also a very painful fact in this country. According to official figures, 893,000 children have to work in Turkey to meet their basic needs and contribute to their family. Adding unregistered child labor to these figures, there are millions of child laborers living in Turkey. There is no time for these children to have the means to explore their superior abilities, let alone their childhood, to play games. Another of the conditions for children is violence and abuse against children in Turkey. In Turkey alone, over 80,000 children were sexually abused in 2013 and hundreds of thousands were subjected to domestic violence. In addition, children's right of life in Turkey is violated by the state itself. Over 500 children have died in the past 25 years alone due to the deliberate attitude or negligence of security forces. In Roboski, bombs were dropped on 22 children who had to trade borders to pay for their education. Many children, such as Berkin Elvan, who wanted to express their reaction to social events, were murdered by police. Uður Kaymaz, 12 years old, was killed with 13 bullets in front of his house. These children were killed by security forces by the government, when their superior abilities were supposed to be revealed. Again, hundreds of children have died in recent years due to state negligence. In 2013, 65 children lost their lives due to shuttle accidents in the school system, while 26 children died from school neglects between 2010 and 2012, while 84 children died from the collapse of the Cheltiksuyu Boarding Regional Elementary School in 2013. In 2008, 18 children died in the crash of the Koran-trained dorm building. We'd like to ask the Ministry of Education about this: where were you when these children were being violated? Do you have a single explanation and study of these matters? Dear friends, one of the biggest obstacles to the emergence of children's superior abilities is no doubt that the right to education in the native language is ignored. While many countries around the world have been educated in the main language for a long time and have taken a serious course in this regard, education in the language is still being handled by paranoia in the main language and there is serious resistance and attitude regarding education in the native language. Whereas children learn their first lesson in their native language. This information is a basis for future stages. The six years he lived before school can only rekindle what he learns in the native language, as well as what he learns in the native language, as well as the basis of thought development in the mother tongue. He who is not educated in his native language cannot have the ability or the ability to use his intelligence or ability to express what he thinks in his native language. The task of the school is actually to support these skills and to provide opportunities and efforts to improve them. If a child is 7 years old, forced to understand and speak the world in a language he knows nothing about, he loses his inner tongue, ends internal dialogue. It's like an internal collapse of a structure. The seven-year effort to create a personality, the fiction of identity, the meaning of the world, and the process of finding its own place in it resets. The beginning of education in a new language is like the beginning of a newborn child. He also agrees on things that make learning easier and thus allow the child to reveal his abilities. With so much research and scientific results, preventing children from learning in the native language means preventing their abilities from being revealed. However, what needs to be done is to open up public schools, starting with pre-school education, to allow children to study in the native language, and thus to develop their abilities. One of the biggest obstacles to the superior development of Turkish children's abilities is that the educational system is undoubtedly test-based. In educational institutions, children are raced from elementary school to university, even after college, as a racehorse. I'd like to draw your attention to this, and I'd like to express to you how the policies that are actually being carried out in this matter have stood in the way of personal development, the development of one's abilities. This system, which makes students rival each other, is absolutely not to create a solidarity society and to prevent the development of a solidarity society. In addition, every educational environment is unique to the conditions that exist in that environment. When the education curriculum is being created, when the lesson content is being determined, when measuring and evaluation methods and principles are being determined, these unique conditions must be considered and each educational environment must be evaluated in its own uniqueity. For example, the conditions of a school in Çankaya are certainly not the same as the conditions of a school in Şanlıurfa. Therefore, the education curriculum that will be created here must definitely be organised in accordance with social and social conditions in the local community. Everyone is allegedly offered equal opportunity. The argument is that everyone has a chance to take these exams and win these exams. But some are luckier from regional, class-based conditions, and those who are always at the center are unfortunately more fortunate than those who are at the center. Many examples of this are seen and experienced in Turkey, including our friends here. These opportunities and opportunities for locals are unfortunately less, more inadequate, while those who live in the centre have more opportunities, more opportunities for education at the centre. The conditions for a student in Hakkari are not the same nor are the conditions for the students in Ankara Çankaya. Their abilities and intelligence are blocked by these conditions, and they are under pressure. In addition to these problems and shortcomings, one of the biggest obstacles to the development of children's abilities in Turkey is physical inadequacies in schools. How many schools have gyms in Turkey, how many schools have full music workshops, art workshops? Today, most of the science and art centers where gifted children go do not have their own buildings. These schools use the buildings of other institutions and are left with physical inadequacies. All these problems reflect the reality that our children are facing in Turkey. The most fundamental flaw in this report is that these structural problems have not been included. Unfortunately, as stated at first, this report was prepared with an approach that missed the fact that the ruling party was involved in children and the structural problems of education. In addition to the structural problems we've considered, we'd like to address some of the issues related to science and art centers, particularly in the interest of the Ministry of Education, including some of our views and recommendations on the discovery, education and development of gifted children. A total of 58 cities, 64 universities of science and art in 2011-2012 education are provided to 11,000 students, as noted in the Commission report. According to TÜİK data, Turkey is known to have 620,000 highly skilled individuals between 0 and 24 years of age. So, about 610,000 children and young people don't benefit from these centers. The first thing the Ministry of National Education must do immediately is to expand and develop these centres. A complementary, enriching, creative education must be given in the MELSEMs, associated with real life. Diagnosis should be conducted in the first grade of elementary school and begin training on the first day of the 2nd grade. Education events must be planned, conducted, and evaluated in an autonomous and original way. The educational work provided at these centers should include critical and creative thinking, independent learning skills, research skills, problem solving and logic. INTERVIEWS, students must actively participate and be included in planning, application and evaluation. Projects carried out by highly skilled students around here should be supported by TUBITAK through support funds. The rules of science and art centers must be prepared. Law enforcement should be placed on a more solid ground. The management numbers and qualities of the centers must be tied to more scientific criteria. A sufficient number of executives specializing in the field must be appointed. The number of teachers in this area must be multiplied. Teacher selection courses should be opened before the school year begins to appoint teachers to open majors in science and art centers, providing them with proper environments for scientific studies of these centres, updating teacher norms, and increasing the number of teachers serving here. The services and food services must be provided for highly skilled students and employees who serve in this area. INTERVIEWs must be provided with free access to all the students in these schools by resolving the problem of transportation. As a result, students and employees who continue to be in these centers have many problems that need to be resolved. To raise awareness of this significant difference in our social life, to investigate, find and support these individuals who exist in society, and to encourage them, will make significant contributions to the development and progress of society. In this context, steps towards solving problems...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0221par0035	Go ahead.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0220par0036	...that parents' feelings, budgets, and child labor should never be allowed to be exploited while being expelled. We all have great responsibilities to explore hundreds of thousands of unexplored children and young people and bring them to society. Furthermore, scientific work, inventions, and information produced in these centers should be used not in the interests of certain environments, but in the interests of the entire community. This attitude should be an ethical principle for those who run the country and those who serve in institutions, particularly the Ministry of National Education. In this sense, we hope that this report will not be forgotten and considered just as a written document as the previous reports, but will be considered by the Ministry of Education and the relevant ministries to consider the commission report, making the necessary changes and arrangements despite all its shortcomings, as soon as possible. I salute all of you with these wishes and feelings.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0222par0040	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Emrehan Halcı. Here you go, Mr. Halici.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0223par0044	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the High Assembly on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group as I begin. The determination and support of children with superior intelligence and ability has been significant in recent years, in turn, to be followed. Meetings organised by universities, educational institutions, NGOs, as well as a strategy for the Higher Council of Science and Technology. In December of last year, the Turkish Intelligence Foundation organised the Congress of Intelligence and Talent in the Grand National Assembly halls of Turkey. The most promising work is the research commission established in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I give thanks to all members of the Commission, Mr. Halide Tülkara, who is free from vicious political disputes, working in harmony and reconciliation. No doubt we've had differences in our opinions and suggestions, but we've discussed them democratically, listened to each other, tried to understand. It is my greatest wish that this positive atmosphere will reflect on the other environments of the Assembly. I'm saying that we've had our differences, which is quite natural, because the academics, the experts, the families, the bureaucrats that we've been listening to during the commission's work have always come up with different views. Both problems and solution proposals were very different. As a result of the work, I personally have two basic identifications. One, this is a matter of great importance in our country. Two: Unfortunately, the issue of what needs to be done is unclear. If a matter is both important and unknown, it is political. I remind you that all parties, especially the ruling party, must make an effort to make arrangements for the issues mentioned in the report. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, given our history, we have a special position on this matter. The first example in the world in the training of the gifted is rare. Such approaches as the selection of children with special abilities, the diversification of education, the continuation of training based on performance, and the excellence of teachers are distinguishing characteristics of the rare. Starting in the 18th century, he lost his starting quality by letting go of such traits. The first law on the matter in the Republic period is the Law on the demand to be sent to Ecnepi Lands of 1416, which was adopted in 1929. Later, in 1948, the Law was issued to send Idil Bünet No. 5245 to the Music Collections in Foreign Lands. In 1956, the first law on special talents became the Law on the Raising of Children in Fine Arts No. 6660. This is still in effect, with the law and a regulation issued in 1963. After Idil Biret and Suna Kana, various artists took advantage of the law. These include Bedri Baykam, Fuat Kent, Fire Pars, Gulsin Approve, Hasan Captain, Hüseyin Sermet, Ishmael Ashan, Nevbahar Aksoy, Neveser Aksoy, Selman Ada, Tunç Unver, Vedat Drawer, Verda Erman. In 1976, special status regulations were issued, allowing special talented children to receive intensive education at state conservatorys and to be sent abroad by a number of young people who finished the high part of the conservatory. Artists who also benefit from this special status include Burchin Buke, Agel Ascendan Ünal, Çağal, Ertan Torgul, Fazil Say, Muriddin Dürruoğlu, Oya Ünler, Özgür Balzı, Shölen Dikener and Jade Alkaya. Since the Ministry of National Education and Culture could not form a commission after these names, the law was unfortunately not implemented. This is unacceptable. These laws and regulations, which have few names, must be obtained at once. The commissions must be met, the principles related to practices must be publicized and regularly supported by our children, our young ones, who have been proven capable. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the name of the research commission begins with the expression "Strength Children." This statement also includes children with superior intelligence. Some experts say that some managers find the expression "smart" offensive. Some experts also recommend that they use the word "special" instead of the word "special." In this regard, my view is to use the expression fully and accurately, as intelligent and highly gifted children. If we aim to find these people, bring them to society and humanity, we must give them the values they deserve. There is no need to be shy about it. People with superior intelligence and superior ability are the treasures of that country and of the whole world. And some of them are even more prominent. It's these few people who change the face of the world, make revolutions in science, in technology, in art, and contribute to seeing the good, the right, and the beautiful. We owe a lot and a lot to these different people, or geniuses, who can be expressed by thousands of people. Dear lawmakers, there are many definitions of intelligence. Intelligence is the ability to learn; intelligence is the ability to solve problems that have never been encountered; intelligence is the ability to understand and explain; intelligence is the ability to adapt to environment and circumstances; intelligence is the ability to produce results and decisions by reasoning. Of course, intelligence is not defined in one field, there are many different areas. For example, according to Gardner's multi-intellectual theory, there are fields of verbal, numerical, spatial, physical, musical, social and internal intelligence. In our country, the diagnostic processes of students with superior intelligence and ability are conducted by the Ministry of National Education. Guides and research centres and science are co-operated with art centres in the provinces. As members of the Commission, we have seen many shortcomings in our study of guidance and research centres and science, arts centers. These institutions must be reconsidered and the arrangements to make sure that they work in accordance with their purpose must be immediately taken care of. The education must be consistent with the child's cognitive, sensory and psychomotor development. In addition to the tests of intelligence to determine the training programmes for skills, the practice of skill testing, creativity, decision-making, problem-solving, music, communication must be used. It is also very clear to abuse because intelligence is very valuable and is valued. In our country, the subject of intelligence and talent began to become more public, with various initiatives such as the school of superior minds, the class of gifted, the school of geniuses, the class of geniuses, the class of geniuses. It's a very serious risk for families who are willing to sacrifice everything for their children. Such activities should be approved by the Ministry of National Education, carefully studied and constantly audited. The deception of families, the disappointment of children, must be avoided. In our country, families often measure superior intelligence and ability only successfully in classes and exams. This is a wrong attitude. Although many geniuses have shown no special superiority in their education life, they have made extraordinary achievements and works in areas they are interested in. An educational system that aims to succeed in exams should be created, instead of a memorizing educational system, aimed at uncovering and developing different skills and abilities. A program that will allow those with different skills to be identified, guided, supported, and followed as soon as possible is unfortunately not available at this time. Different opinions have been made regarding the quality and quantity of students who will be scheduled for such a programme during the commission's work. Our idea is to start such a program with a few people who are truly competent and capable, so that support and surveillance will be greater. The program can be expanded to include more people, in terms of results from few and focused applications and savings. Mr. President, valuable MPs, as the Republican People's Party, to sum up our proposals for the report, our first proposal is to prepare a master plan for superior intelligence and superior talent. In this plan, goals must be defined, and the tasks, responsibilities, and activities of the relevant institutions must be defined. In addition, an autonomous and independent structure that will be responsible for carrying out the plan must be created. A definition of superior intelligence and superior ability must be defined, and the criteria that will be included in this definition must be clearly defined. The methods and tools used in diagnostic processes must also be determined by the opinion of the relevant individuals and institutions. These processes should be fair, transparent and manageable. In the education of children described as superior, practices such as enriching, diversifying, skipping classes must be performed. The issue of superior talent is the common responsibility of the family, the public and the community. It is very important that the family recognizes the potential of the child at an early age. Developmental surveillance must be followed by the Ministry of Health from birth under the principle of early birth, guiding families to support the child's potential. From the moment the potential for intelligence and ability is determined, development data must be recorded and information flowing between institutions. Developmental follow-up information that begins with birth at the Ministry of Health must be transferred to the Ministry of National Education through the system as the school age begins. Educators who give education to those with superior intelligence and superior ability need to be qualified. They must have had a good academic field education, research, creative, open to improvements, self-renewative and leadership qualities. In our commission studies, however, we found that most of the student and family complaints are related to instructors and administrators. The NGO must exercise positive discrimination in order to raise academics in the area of teaching programme quotas and foreign scholarships. In addition, a master's degree, a doctorate, and six-month short-term certificate programmes must be opened to train teachers who are highly intelligent and highly skilled. Once we have completed the trainings of our young ones with these features, there must be policies that will enable them to be employed in their own fields and prevent brain migration and negative effects. I would also like to inform you that the second of the Congress of Intelligence and Talent will be held at the Middle East Technical University on November 29, 30, 2014. One of the main components of Congress will be the sessions under the title "Good Applications and Projects." These sessions will be held in Turkey and in the world for the survival of the potential of superior and gifted individuals in the past and in the recent period of practice examples, projects and again sharing information with academic parties about the same purpose. Mr. President, the issue of intelligence and talent is important not only to our children, but to our people at all ages, but to our people at all ages. Our future is our children, our young ones, but today we, the adults, are shaping their tomorrows. We are obliged to be smart, to understand problems correctly, to come up with effective solutions. We must strive not only to improve our children's mental skills but also our own. Our brains are the most precious treasure that God has given us. We have healthy minds if we give in to ethical values the importance of knowledge, intelligence, thought. Where there are healthy brains, there are no injustices, no injustices; where there are healthy brains, there are no hungers, no poverty; where there are healthy brains, there are no corruption, no irregularities; where there are healthy brains, there are no natural and environmental destruction; where there are healthy brains, there are no fights; there are no wars; where there are healthy brains; where there are healthy brains, there are no reckless accidents, there are no disasters. In 2000, our prime minister attended a meeting on intelligence, where he made a very good speech. I'd like to pass along a brief chapter of him to you. The late Ecevit says: "Wise is the instrument of thought. Naturally, like any tool, intelligence can be used to harm mankind as well as to benefit them. As a matter of fact, intelligent but unwise rulers, who have led mankind into disaster both in history and in modern times, are not few. For him, I think it would be appropriate to integrate intelligence education with a specific moral education. Intelligence and reason are close, but different concepts. There is courage and courage in intelligence, and there is discretion and caution in mind. Therefore, the mind can control the mind. The ideal combination is that a human being has a balanced mind and intelligence. The secret of Ataturk's success is that he has been able to establish this balance, to integrate courage and common sense, both as a commander and as a manager, and at every step of the way. A distant relative of intelligence and mind is cunning. Of course, both intelligence and intelligence have no dignity in cunning. But cunning can sometimes be a defense. The great Chinese scholar Lao Tzu, the founder of Taoism, described this phenomenon of cunning with this proverb: "The people of the country which is ruled softly are simple, and the harsh governance cunnings the people. " - Ecevit, I want to add this. The way to do that is to connect intelligence with intelligence. All must learn from the words of the late Ecevit (Ecevit) and especially from all of us, especially those who are now under the rule of the country. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, good lawmakers, the more important intelligence is to individuals, the more intelligent people are to society. The development of both intelligence and ability of individuals and the creation of collective intelligence can only be achieved through reform by bringing people with superior intelligence and ability into society. They are creative people who think, question, appreciate the value of their intelligence and ability, and are constantly trying to improve, which will target the production of science, technology and art. This reform is also part of the information reform needed to transform our country into an information society. The Republican People's Party is determined to carry out this reform. With these feelings, I wish our commission report to shed light on the work and the steps that will be taken later, and I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0224par0069	Thank you, Mr. Halici. İstanbul MP Hüseyin Burge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Burge.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0225par0073	Mr. President, on behalf of my AK PARTY Group, I respectfully salute the General Assembly as a member of the Council on behalf of my Council on the Parliamentary Research Commission Report, which has been established to determine the discovery, education, and educational problems, to ensure effective employment. Before I begin my talk, I wish our brothers and sisters in Soma. May 27th, I want to express our gratitude to Menderes, and to his friends. Respected lawmakers are difficult to define because education is a phenomenon that continues to die from the birth of an individual, because it contains political, social, cultural and individual dimensions at the same time. Education, according to predetermined principles, is a series of planned influences that help people make certain improvements in their behavior. Education is expressed as a process of creating changes that are deliberately required in the individual's actions through his own life. Education is the art of making the child human according to Cicero; giving the body and soul its talent according to Plato; raising the human according to Rousseau, according to Spencer, to prepare the human for a perfect life; all kinds of influences are made on generations that have not yet been mature for social life by Durkheim. Respected lawmakers, teaching is an action to organise events, provide the necessary tools and tools, and provide guidance that will facilitate learning. There's no doubt that they have the superior brain power to change people's lives throughout history, to develop what we call civilization. According to this approach, there must have been many changes and improvements in the field of technique, science, social, education that many people have seen and talked about over the years that have always made this day different from yesterday. The people who provide these rapid changes and improvements in society are people with superior brain power, but highly skilled individuals are unable to assess their high potential when they are not trained enough. At times, it is possible for an individual with a normal level of intelligence to have extraordinary accomplishments, and not by some individuals with superior abilities, but by creating a major breakthrough, to see situations that are not enough for themselves. With that respect, I'd like to stress that we need a special training program for the gifted. In all ancient societies, education and teaching have always been the most vital. In literature, in art, in social information, primarily in science and technique, education and education have been the main actor in all areas that will lead to the development of civilizations. Education and education is about developing a person who is the most important element in a society, helping society to live a more prosperous life within itself, boosting living standards with scientific and technical advances, leading against other societies with various technological innovations. In this land where we have an ancient civilization, education and education have been the most fundamental element in all the states we've established, and the Seljucians' madrasses of Nizamiya, such as the rarest examples of the Ottomans, have served as regular dynamos for the construction of a powerful empire. In all parts of the state, the Ottoman Empire has dealt with the need for people who have grown up in science, navigation, property, pencils and so on, thanks to the schools of the rare. The candidates have put forward the elements that young people have determined until they reach the point where they are preferably the first child of noble or prominent families, healthy, beautiful, handsome. At the end of the day, humanities, martial arts, vocational education, have been raised by a strong model of hair. Turkish, Arabic, music and Koran courses were mandatory for all students in the Humanities programme, and among the elective courses are Persian, Turkish and Persian literature, Arabic grammar, Islamic studies, law, history and mathematics, but in the martial arts, archery, wrestling, running, long jump, weightlifting, and war games were also put in front of them as options. Honourable lawmakers have been guaranteed by the Ottoman Empire as elite and distinguished members of the community, whose rare alumni skills and education, as well as their duties over the centuries. Of course, if education and teaching start with humans and end with humans, then the education format of the elite during the republic is of course appreciated if one is a priority in each period. But I'm sorry to say... In the 1950s, it begins with the Law, which organises the State Training of Children Who Show Extraordinary Talent in Music, Picture, and Other Fine Arts in the 560s. Ankara Fen High School follows this. With the leadership of the Ankara Guidance and Research Centre, it is possible for me to consider trials in some elementary schools and secondary schools, public secondary school and high school as well as free boarding exams, teacher schools and other high-level vocational institutions. I would also like to stress that the 1963-64 years when TÜBİTAK scholarships, the higher education scholarships provided by the Ministry of National Education through the Office of Higher Education Credits and Homes, the entrance exams to universities and academys, the 1963-64 years when Turkey's first science high school began training, the 1989-90 Anadolu Fine Arts High School opened. Of course, one of the most important things we have to focus on is science, art centers. The first centre of science and art in Turkey was opened in Ankara in 1995. By 2003, the number of science and art centres, whose number was 17. I strongly suggest you look at yesterday as you criticize. In 2003, he was 17 and now 72. Is that enough? Of course it's not enough. The 72 science arts centers in 64 still serve nearly 15,000 students in our country through our talented teacher friends. It's a long way to go because we're talking about special training. Turkey's first social sciences high school was opened in 2003 in order to raise scientists needed in the field of literature and social sciences. The National Ministry of Education, Marmara University, Children's Foundation co-operation took place on 23 September 25 September, when the 1st Turkish Special Talented Children Congress was held. Between 2004 and 2005, sports high schools began to open, and in 2008, the Bayrampaşa City Hall Science Center was active. In 2009, it was organised as the Education of the Superior Talented and Approval Plan for Special Talented Individuals. At the University of Anatolia, there was the 2nd National Convention on Honourable Children. In 2011, the National Ministry of Education No. 652 was appointed as president of the General Directorate of Special Education and Guidance Services under the Law Act on the Offices of the Organization and Missions of the Ministry of Education. In 2012, the 74th Union of our General Assembly, dated 6/3/2012, established the 17-member Research Commission for the Comprehensive Talented Children. By the way, I'd like to thank our Commissioner, all of our deputies here, all of my friends who have worked so hard to create such a commission. It's a start, but I certainly don't think it'll be the last. In 2012, Hacettepe University was co-operated with the 3rd edition of Turkey's Special Talented Children Congress. So even though I've told you about what's going on with the superior talent, I'd like to present it as a political-sized insight into our shortcomings. I would also like to highlight the lack of sufficient and current tools used in educational evaluation and diagnostics (perception forms, intelligence/talent testing, music, painting, creativity and leadership tests). Most of the gifted students in our country are unrecognizable. The lack of academic studies involving different educational models and the inability of educators who can work with special talented students to qualify for quality and quantity. The lack of sufficient cooperation between public institutions and institutions, local governments, NGOs. I'd also like to express the lack of a structured family guidance programme for special talent. However, all municipalities, NGOs, especially the Ministry of Health, have been introduced to our disabled brothers and sisters, private educational institutions -- as well as to make special educational institutions -- in order to bring our disabled brothers and sisters to the street in the AK PARTI administration. Here's the training of the highly skilled we're talking about. A gifted child is described as a child whose ability to perform at a high level, according to his peers, in terms of general or special abilities, is described by experts. So it's about first finding the ore, preparing the tests to find the ore, processing the ore -- in the parentheses that I've established -- to bring our person, our child -- into society, to benefit as a society from the work he's done in the future. In Turkey, studies for the superior are not limited to that much. Science and technology centers are experimental and practical centers designed to connect people with different savings at every age with science, to learn from the source of information and to trigger curiosity into science. In this sense, the first science centre in Turkey is the Feza Gürsey Science Center, founded in 1993 in Ankara. And since he was the first in municipal affairs, I'd like to say that the Bayrampaşa City Hall Science Center was one of the first in 2008. The establishment of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology is one of the most important works I think the AK PARTY government has ever done. After the establishment of the Ministry of Science, Technology and Technology in 03/06/2011, Minister Nihat Ergun Beyfa declared the opening of science centers in 81 districts is too important to deny. Science centers have also begun to be opened in Burma, Alexandria, Sakarya, Kayseri, and the capital city municipalities, especially in Iconia. The science centers established by the Metropolitan municipalities with TÜBITAK support are usually composed of interactive exhibition sites, such as the world's examples, and visual experiment sets for scientific subjects. As an example to the municipalities and all municipalities, I also congratulate these young brothers and sisters who were raised by Adam Dotcı and Sevcan Altundal of Bayrampaşa City's Science Center, the first of Turkey in 2012 in physics in the 43rd Middle School Research Projects competition of Sevcan Altundal. Don't tell me it's a children's college. Children's universities are structures that aim to give children a sense of happiness in exploring, to make them like science, art, sports activities, to develop their hands skills, their mental skills, to give them responsibility to work with the group. Ankara University, which began to operate under the name Children's University in 2009, should also be celebrated. Can we ignore the fact that the platform of Turkish Science Centers was established, that science centers administrators met at Gaziantep in 2013 to address the problems of these centers and discuss solutions? The purpose of the platform is to allow the science centers in Turkey to benefit from each other's experiences, to find more effective methods to make the public and especially children enjoy science. The platform also talks about the problems and solutions of science centers. Respected lawmakers, I say this for our talking MPs in the AK PARTI administration -- of course we have shortcomings, and we will. In human education and teaching, from yesterday to today, from Adam (AS) to the end of the apocalypse, I'd like to emphasize that one side of education will be incomplete because your material is human. The carpenter may be able to put aside what he did wrong and fight to get another piece of material out of him, but it's a different dimension, especially if this kid's a genius. To highlight the need for special education regarding these children, I think it's a very important report that our friends on the Commission have shown our knowledge and skills regardless of the party, which is very meaningful, perhaps a road map to the future. With that dignity, at the point of the report, I believe the shareholders will take advantage of this road map of our future world, about our future days. Of course, we've made our suggestions, and I'd like to share a few of them with you in the study: the Ministry of National Education, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Youth and Sports, Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, Ministry of Development, Ministry of Development, YÖK, universities, municipalities, NGOs, NGOs must be co-ordinated and synchronized. To create enough tests and other possibilities for the discovery of superior talent... one of the things that needs to be settled on in education schools -- I say this as someone who has taught for years -- is to be trained as a qualified teacher with the ability to explore and nurture superior talent. A special, practical curriculum must be created and implemented for highly skilled individuals, and must be supported by the laboratory, the necessary materials, universities, and industrial institutions. Boarding schools should be established for highly skilled children, children must be continued until the end of high school and education opportunities abroad. I'd like to put it as a matter of great talent that we've been missing, that the parents are getting very important assignments. This applies to the following: The guidance and support activities must be given to parents of highly gifted children. I believe it is necessary for institutions investing in this subject to be encouraged by the state, to protect and make the ongoing institutions more efficient. The higher ones are our future. The higher ones must act on the principle and begin their work at once. And while all these studies are being done -- there's been a fast system in the past, a grade jump -- that's the kind of opportunity that kids have to have to have to have to have to be brilliant and talented kids to keep the kid's future from going dark. The skilled ones who are raised must be employed in the proper areas. I also think it's necessary for science centers to be put on a legal basis. Honourable MPs, I believe our friends have had some serious work to do in the report. In return for these efforts, I thank all my friends who have worked so hard to prepare this important report on our children's behalf in sync, and on behalf of our future, I thank you, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0226par0112	Thank you, Mr. Burge. Here you are, Mr. Horseman, hacking into the system.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0227par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister of National Education, if they listen to me... you have decided to shut down Bahçelievler Elementary School in Mersin, Yenişehir district. For 25 years, the Gardenieves Elementary School has raised many gifted and brilliant students. There is an application in Mersin, which does not comply with any of the National Ministry of Education's decision to close schools. We cannot tolerate the closure of a school on the grounds of excessive artificial education. Mr. Secretary, I urge you to show interest in this matter and show the sensitivity necessary to ensure that the Gardenieves Elementary School is not closed. I've called your Undersecretary before, I've spoken to the Deputy Secretary; I'm getting all the same, stereotyped answers, none of them satisfactory. You're an educator, so please stop this school from being shut down. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0228par0120	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0229par0121	Can I give you a quick answer?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0228par0122	It's not a question-and-answer, but you have an explanation...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0229par0123	As an explanation...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0228par0124	Come in, just a minute.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0229par0126	Regarding that, a memo also came from Mr. Ali Oz, and he said so in the meantime. I'll look into it after the hearing, I don't know about it, I'll look into it.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0230par0127	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0228par0128	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, İstanbul MP Halide İncekara... [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Incekara. (10/136, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181) Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, let me tell you a joke again this time of night, and I'll start with a joke. Madam Secretary just told me about an old cartoon. Mullis got on the bus, started yelling at the bus driver, and I got on this bus, but ask him if he had a ticket. Now, Mr. Secretary, I've done this study, but let me ask you now, will the consequences come to life? Yes, it's a private matter, and to understand it, and to understand it -- during the commission's work, we realized that you really need to have a special interest, because when you're looking at it all the time, when you're looking at it, when you're burning it, when some are crying, some are hungry, some are single, and these kids are now? God has already praised them, and they are smart, smart, and they solve problems. It was looked at, and it never came up for him. It's as if it's a sin, as if it's a mistake to talk about intelligent or talented children when the country has so many problems, and we've seen these reflexes rightfully, so if we're talking about this... Dear friends, dear colleagues, dear friends of the MP; yes, if we can't talk about these children, we'll have to talk about a lot of the country's problems for many years, we'll always talk about the results, we'll always talk about the Soma, we'll always talk about the tensions in politics. You know why we're gonna talk? I have a proposal: if we sprinkle a few of these brilliant children into institutions, organizations, politics, I assure you, the results will change a lot. Anyone can talk about reasons, consequences. Now, in this area that we're talking about, time, time, money, whatever, it's going to make life easier for us, it's going to make life faster for us, it's going to make life easier for us. It's not for those young people and children that's a pain in the ass for a pack of us. It's not for them that we can work for days and learn. When we say, "Who are these children?" we talk about the brilliant children of Turkey, who have a population as young as the population of several European countries. Didn't politics ever think of that? He thought about it. From 1929, he began to think. He established institutions, established institutions, established laws, but in the structure of the state, they did not sprinkle a little bit of their own staff and institutional structure, so it did not happen to understand, comprehend, implement, and make them living in schools and streets. Do you know who these kids are, Halide Haným? Do you know how smart your grandson is in our house? If you could just see my girl's last trick, she's smart. We can't use what they're using, we can't talk about what they're talking about, it's true. But there were TVs to talk like them, and we didn't? They had cell phones, and we didn't use them? No. Of course, the more time comes, the more parents are fed, the more parents are trained, the more intelligent our children are, the smarter they are. But we're talking about a generation of responsible, with a sense of justice, empathy, developed, with an average of two in every 100 people, who are what we call bright children, who learn faster than we are, who think better than we are, who notice others among their peers, who are creatively strong, who feel the need to finish what they started, and who have a sense of justice, and who have an average of two in every 100 people, but we've come to the conclusion that it's not fair for us to limit the children to the same thing. Because children who used to be described as intelligent by one mind measurement now have different minds on multi-intelligent scales. When we define social intelligence, musical intelligence, mathematical intelligence, a lot of expressions, it can expand the public. These children are lucky, let them go. Don't tell them, these children are troubled, troubled, bleeding. What's with all the trouble? Look, in the 22nd century, we studied the growing tendency of violence in children. Because every child is precious and every child we have accepted is the only one. In the 23rd term, we studied the missing children, the victim of children. One of the printouts in our work is that the society doesn't notice much, but most of these kids are talking about a population of children that we see there when we visit prisons where their parents are almost treated for depression. The naughty of the house, the despised, the school held on one foot, the children his teacher dislikes most in class, the rivals; they scratch, they struggle, they try to learn. He only has one flaw: he learns before his friend, he sees the end of the movie before you do. They only have one flaw: they notice what you don't notice, they solve what you can't solve, they struggle. See me. Mr. Minister, if we're giving a 13-year-old dietary prescription to our young and children and to the child who are fed under it, they're eating food. I'm sorry, I'm suddenly excited to see the Minister of Education, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Development side by side because three of them are very interested in this, and the Ministry of Health says, "You haven't been able to feed the child for a minute; children don't just feed their hearts, their minds, and their brains. Look at me, one of you put an evil eye on me! Read it, blow it, my voice is gone. For these reasons, 139 MPs have become troubled, and with seven motions, our Commission was established on 6/3/2012. However, I also condemn my own group, and I condemn the opposition not to press this issue; such a fine work has been on the shelf for 17 months. [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] Sir, of course, with all the issues involved, these children, are these commissions discussed? If we don't negotiate these commissions, if we don't deal with the problems of these children, middle-minded people and politics and bureaucracy will suffer for years.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0231par0148	Bravo. (10/136, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181) We had 22 meetings, 12 experts. Under the national educational framework, we visited three science high schools, four science arts centers, three private education centers, while Ankara Children and Youth Closed Prison, but not enough, because Turkey did not have the preparation to work well and illustrate. We go to colleges, empty; we go to RDs, no results. So -- we thank the Grand National Assembly of Turkey very much -- to see what the world is doing in three countries -- a group of us went to New Zealand, a group of us went to South Korea, a group of us went to Germany, and some of us did the proper work, and they got information on the research subject by inviting 27 people to the Commission. We've seen what our Ministry of National Education has done on our trips. The Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Youth and Sports to prioritize development and planning, all of these ministries need to have joint signatures and attitudes, not just the responsibility of the Ministry of National Education, of course. Turkey has no children. During the time that Turkey was not involved in crime, the perpetrator of the crime, or the victim, there was no attack, there was no owner of a child in Turkey. When his child is the perpetrator of the crime or the victim of the crime, we start talking, crying together, saying, "Woe to us," but we see what we've done to eliminate the cause. Here's what we specifically ask of our Minister of Health: we know that by the age of 2, they had a very strict control over the children, that they didn't miss any vaccines. At this stage, all the child sees is his mother and her doctors, who are in close contact. And children's vaccin cards, medical trails are being made. Mom, if she's not inoculated, the phone is answered, and if she's sick, the pediatrician is chasing after her, and it's really something to envy. We'd like him to write down his toys, as well as the child's mental, physical development until he's 4 years old, and the doctors of the Ministry of Health are with him, a social worker, a family consultant, I don't know, by having someone, I don't know, writing down how he should feed the same child, as well as how he can help the child's mental development, which is not too difficult. For us, especially when you think that mothers and fathers take food in the hands of 18-year-olds, let alone baby-sitting when we're married, most of us don't know the home order. It's not a shame, we need guides. We're asking the Minister of Health, and we're asking you because I'm thinking of bringing a statue up here on a handstand for research commissions that don't rest. You take care of our children until they're 4 years old, Mr. Secretary, and guide the mothers. How to improve children's mental development -- forward or backward -- what colors... One moment, Congressman, I'm trying to tell the Minister something, so please talk to him later.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0232par0155	They do it all the time, not the first time. Bravo, I applaud you. [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] (10/136, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181) ESAS UNIVERSE CONTINUES REFERENCE
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0233par0158	Okay. (10/136, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181) ESAS NOMARIAL MECLlS CONTROL REFERENCE How many thousands of needles will I import, how many thousands of doctors should I import, how many thousands of stretchers do I want to import when we're planning all of this, and when we've finished planning the human resources and the universities, it's not too hard for our children to have no jobs and the institutions to have no staff.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0232par0160	So why haven't you done it in 13 years? (10/136, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181) ISBN Planning: I did it. Who didn't? We went to the YOK. Look, the social scientist, your doctor, your nurse, is as big as this. By the way, what's the talent? That much. When you say, "What are you doing?" the RD can't move. He calls it that, and when he says that, unfortunately, it just disappears in between. In this regard, I would like to share with you that I have received no results in this work. He doesn't know how to make the right test so the NGO can do it. (10/136, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181) ESAS UNIVERSE CONTINUES CONTINUES CONTINUES IN THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE I asked you the other day -- look, we're suffering Soma -- you have to ask the opposition; ask the universities, ask the techno parks. The development of a country, not by measuring what you import and where you import it, but by how much resources your universities have passed on to RD studies...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0234par0166	We say it all the time. (10/136, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181) IS THE UNIVERSE OF ESAS UNIVERSE CONSITION
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0232par0168	Have you looked at the Law on Occupational Safety before you asked about them? It's a $2,000 fine for that company. (10/136, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181) ESAS UNIVERSE CONTINUE REFERENCE Bring it in and bring it in, so that's how it is. It's not.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0235par0170	That's right, Hajji. (10/136, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181) We're saying something right. You will confirm the right thing, and you will say yes. Teacher, that's right. (10/136, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181) How many research have you done, and how many money have you asked the Ministry for? Do you want me to import it from there, import it from here...? Not with these. That's my problem, not the rest. I'm back with the kids. Yeah, well, what do these kids do, Ministry of National Education? They have guidance research centers. When you look at it, it says on the paper, "Fevkale"; it will guide, and it will not investigate. Does it? He can't. Why can't he? Once the number isn't enough, it's distributed according to the population. Is that enough? It's not enough. We just told you, our boys are all too smart for our own good. We think he's smart, but he's smart for a teacher, isn't he? There's no way the teacher can keep up with kids who are young, they're new, they're almost born learning. The day before yesterday, he said to the guardian at one of the nearby schools: "Take this to Halide Hanım, I can't deal with it, I can't deal with it." The teacher's duty is not to take Al to Halide Hanım. Taking that kid away and comparing him to almost what he needs. Well, I'm asking if a teacher doesn't do this, does he have something to lose, or why would he? Then we need to work with a group of volunteers for these special children from within the educational community. It's not for everyone, these kids, these kids, these tough kids, we need patience, we need perseverance. Then it's me, who has patience and patience, who says, "It's five after five," who says, "It's not five." I'm not saying it's twenty-four hours, it's for the boys, it's for the guidance research centers. The number of such educators is numerous, but among the fugitives, they are wasted, they are almost beaten because they work well, because why are you still working? Because if he works, the other one is thought to work too. No, we don't, but we really need volunteers on this one. The government's thinking again, they're opening science schools. Science high school is one of the high schools I care about a lot. Our esteemed deputies went to Ankara Fen High School with our members of the Commission. We were all crazy when we left. I said on my way out, they're taking 500 of this country's most remarkable children and probably collecting them to put a match under these science schools. There's nothing else, because if you go to Sincan Children's Prison, all of our children who have had to fall there have a room and two servants. You go to science high school, five kids in one room, no teachers, all the halls have collapsed. We immediately called the county manager of that time, sir, where are you? We're talking about science high school. Isn't that right, Congressman? Where are you with our Regents, sir? He used to walk into that school's garden every morning, but he didn't bother to come in one day. Which means our county managers need to be smart, too. Not 81, but 10 is enough for me. Because with a good example, we have a chance to improve quality. It's no joke, he doesn't go, he doesn't go through the school door, he doesn't walk through the yard, he doesn't listen to his parents, what does he manage? He'll go. The same goes for school principals. Well, we gave these kids to science school, they're extraordinary kids. In the 4th grade, you can't find a single child in science high school because those kids are valedictorians when they go to another high school. Why would he wait for the science school when he could be valedictorian and go straight to college? His responsibility is the Minister of National Education, the Minister of National Education, who dropped the mid-school success score. 10/136, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181) They're working on it. Now, the kids are going to the classroom. You know, the famous lecturers.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0236par0183	Parallels. (10/136, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181) All the classrooms boast of are the achievements of those children at the science school where national education actually breeds them. At the end of the year, they take those kids to the classrooms, they don't contribute for a nickel... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] (10/136, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181) IS THE CONSIDER OF ESAS No. 180, 181) Is it over?
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0237par0188	Go on, Hajji, go on.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0236par0189	We couldn't get enough of Halide Hanım, so give us some more time.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0238par0190	Let's give it a little longer.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0239par0191	Give it time, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0240par0192	Thank you, Mr. Incekara. (10/136, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181) Thank you, too. Sir, I'd like to thank all my friends who have added value. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] On behalf of the government, Minister of National Education Nabi Avcı. Here you go, Mr. Hunter.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0241par0199	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I now have a long speech prepared by our friends, but a large portion of the information in this speech has already been said by fellow commissioners from every party who speak here. So, I'm not going to read all of this, and I'm not going to talk too long anyway. It's just that, you know, the Ministry of National Education, there's been so much Commission work, decisions have been made, but what's been done? After giving a few brief answers to the question, I'll give you my general opinion. Now, the report is made up of various sections, and the tenth section has the proposals for politics. There are more than 70 suggestions brought under the names of,, education practices, human resources, family and society. As part of these suggestions, we prepared the Special Talented Individuals Strategy and Application Plan 2013-2017, and made it an application document by presenting it to the High Council of Science and Technology, which was collected on 15 January 2013. This plan has three basic goals, including the creation of educational models, the development of human resources, spreadability and sustainability, and a lower goal of nearly 40. In this strategic plan, the organisations to co-operate have been determined in detail. I'd like to give you a brief summary of some of the work conducted under the current plan. In the beginning, training models have been developed, and the Framework Training Programme for Special Talented Individuals has been prepared. Diagnosis tests for early recognition of these children have been prepared, and test appliances have begun to grow. Again, within the framework of this plan, project-based support is being implemented at science and art centres. In addition, the database of special talented individuals is created by Mrs. Halide, a database of predetermined individuals. Special Talented Children's Family Guide -- because the families of these children who need the most information on this matter -- are about to explain why -- and the Education Enrichment Manual has been prepared. Education practices continue under FATHIH, the EBA, the UZEM and EU-backed projects. INTERVIEWS, which have been in the education of special talented individuals since 95, have been popularized at the level of secondary school and high school at 81. As of today, 72 BlSEMs are operating in 64 counties. Class and major teachers and teachers who study at education schools are given awareness of these issues; special talents organise training courses. Co-operation with universities and NGOs is being organised. These are our official views, what we've done, and our official views. Now, to clarify a few of the issues mentioned here by our friends, I would like to say a few things: The traumas of our children with different native language or non-English language are very important to our Ministry of National Education. In this regard, we agree that the reservations on international contracts must be lifted. The report is correct in this sense, that it lacks salt. It's a positive step in this, and we've saved these diagnostic tests from language addiction, so whatever its native language is, these tests are being made available to measure our children's special abilities, to predict them. Again, a review by Mr. Kaplan is related to the teachers selected for the information. That's not true. Since 2008, teachers who have been elected to the BILSEM have been selected through three separate selection stages, depending on a number of preliminary criteria. So, there's no problem with our teachers, the teachers who serve in these BlSEMs, but in the student elections, the locals, yes, we've also found that the leading rulers or persons of that province, their progeny, their influential children, are registered here without being dependent on these criteria. And to prevent that, we're taking measures to guide students based on the results of these diagnostic tests. In addition, the only alternative has been devoid of knowledge. We're also trying to promote it with talent workshops and support training rooms. Mr. Commissioner's criticism of the situation of some of our schools was very accurate, especially for a period of time, and partly true for this period, but in Law 6528, which we agreed to despite everything on March 1, 2014, there was a very convenient case of misunderstanding, project schools. This project gave the Minister a number of powers for both the management and financing of the selected schools and the teachers' elections that were not in other schools, and it was criticised in both the Commission and the General Assembly that it could be used with very subjective measurements, and therefore only for the purpose of becoming a staff, so it can be criticised, so it is very convenient to be understood. But as we tried to explain in the Commission and at the General Assembly, the purpose of this was to make some of our schools -- which is the head of the Ankara Fen High School -- do some of the pilot applications around here, and make them do things that we can't do with the existing legislation, which we can't do. As a matter of fact, last week, we spoke to the Ankara Science High School Alumni Association, and they discussed that it was a model that they would propose, that they would work on it, that they would come to us, and that together with the Ministry of National Education, together with the foundation, we could start an initiative to get rid of the look that Halide Hanım. So here, if we succeed, I believe that we will be, because the Alumni Association, the Foundation, seems very willing to do so, based on some of the experiences she's had before. We, the Ministry of National Education, have promised them the support, contribution and cooperation needed. Now, it's me, here, about terminology... uh, this is a document prepared by the Supreme Council of Science and Technology, the Special Talented Individuals Strategy and Appliance Plan. It's on the website of the Ministry of National Education Special Education and Guidance General Directorate -- there's no time to multiply it. He said, "Our friends, if we had time, we would have distributed it to you, but it's there" -- it can be looked at from there. I also said in the study held by the Intelligence Foundation at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- Mr. Halker will remember -- I have a reservations about terminology, which is what is used here as a genius. It doesn't feel pedagogically right to me, it doesn't seem right to us, that we, the Ministry of National Education, are special talent for this... because once again, in the beginning, it implies a hierarchy, a hierarchy among the children. Don't these kids deserve it? It's against these children and their families because in the first place, families start treating their children like creatures -- I don't use them in an unusual way -- and they get into an attitude that prevents them from living their childhoods: you're superior, how do you do that? Does it suit you?.... everything the child does starts to become a misdemeanor in a sense. We've been through this a lot from schools and parents. Other than that, last year, you'll remember, in Istanbul, when a school project for our children was conducted, a school project ended, so it went to normal education. Specially gifted children and their parents who were trained at that school -- about 19 -- also had very good relations with the media, and they brought it up, and they did a number of demonstrations. Two banners in those shows will tell you exactly what I mean. One of the signs is: where are the Einsteins here, where is the Ministry of National Education? ▪ Now, it's a problem when 10-12-year-olds and their families start to see themselves, their children, as Einsteins. Don't kill the geniuses. This is one of the signs. Now, genius is one thing, genius has no education, which is very special, if only we could design an educational program for each of our children with this ability. Because there's a paradox here, and we're saying that they're both very special, and we're assuming that these children, each of them, have a very special ability, and we think that we can put them together and apply a standard education to them. It's paradoxical. They're really special talent. As a matter of fact, the law on the Suna Kan (Suna), which came after 1916, has been delivered to the address. It's not in accordance with the law technique, but it suits the pedagogy. I mean, even if it's possible for every special talented kid to have a separate training program. Oh, we can't do that, so let's put these together, and we'll develop a separate factory model for them. This is wrong. For our children and their families, these blessings sometimes become a great burden. We receive serious complaints from parents and teachers, especially from our undereducated instructors. So, within the framework of this Strategy and Application Plan, we're still trying to keep our children from being treated as if they were to be treated as a mass production object, in some institutions where they're not to be treated as a product of their own special abilities. Here, a number of mental skills, mathematical intelligence and ability, often referred to as special talent, or superior intelligence, are often referred to as "not always," but we know that each child now has its own unique skill. It doesn't necessarily refer to mathematical intelligence; some can be very successful in sports; some can be very successful in art; some can be very successful in language; the important thing is to see that every child has as special a talent in what field as possible; and then to identify it, and then to train it in educational environments where it can improve it as much as possible with other children who look like it. This is electives at 4+4+4, yes, we're not getting enough of that, but we can't create a classroom for every elective class yet, sometimes. That's why we brought at least 10 students. In fact, if we could remove those ten student cuts from our facilities and even if it's possible, we could actually employ teachers who would actually give up that lesson for each elective class. We're heading there, we're not there yet, but we're heading there. At least I think it's true that we're pointing, but in the meantime, we haven't been able to create ideal conditions yet. We're not there for our special talented children yet, but the implementation plan is the right plan, the confederates are correct, we're coordinated as the Ministry of National Education, and we're doing that. I thank the Commission very much, and thank the members of the Commission separately, especially the Commissioner. There's a really guiding report for us, a lot less. We have a study that shows us how much we do, what we should do first. We've been reviewing what we've done so far in this study. In the latest amendment to the National Ministry of Education Agency Law, we also established an office chair at the Office of Special Education and Guidance, which we made in the March 1st amendment. So from now on, we're going to work a little faster. I thank you all very much, very much.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0242par0215	Thank you, Mr. Hunter. İstanbul MP Smurf Ünal on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0243par0219	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my person about the report of the Research Commission, which has been established to ensure the discovery of gifted children, the discovery of special talent children, the detection of problems related to education, and the effective employment of our country's development. I hereby salute your high council. Honourable lawmakers are children who are successful and promising, children who can vary dramatically from their peers in understanding, narrative, perception and evaluation; children who can be described more in the fields of skill, skill, rational intelligence and leadership than their peers; who can easily meet the needs of their own age; who, in light of knowledge, etiquette and education discipline, can be described differently in sociology, beyond the upbringing of education and education. This change in successful and promising children has become accurately evident in the development of the organism, and differences in their peers are easily discernible. On the basis of our Research Commission, which was established two years ago, a successful and promising child's innate attributes, a different assessment as part of a positive discrimination has been more effective, quicker, and more guaranteed results than rigging a child with education and knowledge. As it will play a major role in the growth of a useful generation to its country and its nation, it has also set an example for those after it, contributing to the high level of competitive success. With this study, which will give the development of education and teaching a significant boost, the detection of successful promising children and the creation of an exemplary model has been an important step towards the emergence of many ore in our population of about 77 million. History has seen many times the emergence of leaders from Turkey, whose historical, cultural, social structure and economy are strong, who will guide the world, who will shed light on the age. No doubt, today it is fitting to direct the world to the sons of the land that has a reputation in the world, the land that is spoken of. Although there have been many previous legal arrangements and initiatives, a study that will be a model and model in the widest range has yet to be developed and created. As a result, at the coming point, it was discovered that there was a need for new detection and training within an institutional structure. The fact that the discovery of successful and promising children is being made in full, as well as the goal of the study is a great gain, represents the protection of the loss. Successful and promising children's detection, education and monitoring policies were intended to be determined and carried out in a sustainable structure. The effective and rapid implementation of the country's macropolitics is closely related to the ability of highly skilled children to receive proper education in their time and potential. In this context, policies and concrete steps to implement these policies across the country are a requirement for the development and development of the country. Turkey has also pledged to teach its children in accordance with the universal declaration of human rights of the United Nations, the Convention on Child Rights, and the World Proclamation for Education for All and the different skills, interest and needs of the state. This makes our country responsible for providing special educational services to the elite in international law enforcement. In order to meet the obligations that Turkey is responsible for in international contracts as part of the entity, Turkey has provided provisions for the special education of children with superior skills in law, regulations, regulations and decisions. Although the legal grounds in Turkey are within the scope of special-needed children's special skills and needs, practices do not fully meet the needs of gifted children. The results of meeting the requirements and obligations for the need for education of highly skilled children were also referred to under the heading of the Parliamentary Research Commission Report, which was established in Turkey's Grand National Assembly on February 16, 2010 and on the 958 decision-making number to determine the measures for which children should be victims, particularly the problems that should be taken. However, earlier research, study and practices on superior talent have been seen to be limited to quantity and quality in the context of individual, family, society and country. Dear lawmakers, the Parliamentary Research Commission, which began its work on April 5, 2012, completed the study of academic research in the field article, the taking of the country's visits, the listening of field experts and their views. The report, prepared in this direction, was submitted to the Parliamentary Presidency in November 2012. Precious lawmakers will also contribute to social development and country development while the emphasis on the education of superior talent in society and the support of talent will increase individual happiness by allowing the individual to use its potential at the highest level. Children who differ from their peers with their developmental properties will be able to influence other individuals in society with their strong motivations and moral values as much as they are supported in the process of achieving themselves, creating the driving force for the development and prosperity of society. Madam Secretary, we're waiting for you to announce the opening of schools our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology plans to open in our three major cities. As I end my remarks, the Special Talented Children's Commission thanks all my fellow commissioners, especially Mr. Halide İskar, who successfully conducts our work, to all of our fellow commissioners, and to all of our members, I sincerely congratulate you, all of you. May our report be good for our country. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0244par0230	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. Members of parliament, there is a motion in accordance with Article 72 of the Civil Code on the continuation of talks on the Parliamentary Commission report. I would like to request that the discussions of Research Commission Report 427 be carried out under Article 72 of the Civil Code. It is useful to continue to ensure that lawmakers will be informed more about the report.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0245par0239	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-05-27sit04spe0244par0240	You want the number of decisions enough... I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit05spe0244par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of Turkey's 93rd Union of the Grand National Assembly. The resolution of the motion to continue talks under Article 72 of the Civil Code was not enough. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-05-27sit06spe0244par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 93rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The second vote of the motion to continue negotiations under Article 72 of the Civil Code was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor of the motion... those who have not accepted... since the vote has not been reached... and there has not been enough decision-making on Wednesday (May 28th 2014) to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of legislation and proposals, as agreed by Parliament Research Commission Reports 427 and 454 on the special agenda. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
