tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 97th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mardin MP Erol Dora (Second Minister) who asked for a statement about the missing persons in custody. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak off the record on the matter of missing persons in custody. I salute the General Assembly. There has been a certain stage in the world in the fight for losses in custody, which has been under the protection of human rights defenders and missing relatives for nearly 19 years. The International Convention on the Protection of Missing Persons in custody of the United Nations was adopted and opened on December 20, 2006. So far, 91 countries have signed this contract and have adopted 38 countries. The countries that approved the contract included Argentina, Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ecuador, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Peru, Serbia, Tunisia, Uruguay and Zambia. Dear lawmakers, despite repeated calls from human rights advocates and missing relatives, the fact that the AK PARTI government has yet to bring up the United Nations Convention on Loss is a superficial and populist view of human rights. Turkey's international obligations are not limited to the Convention on Loss. In addition, the UN Status of Rome, which regulates the judicial authority of the International Criminal Court, must be approved and implemented, and the additional protocols of the Geneva Convention must be implemented. Dear lawmakers, Turkey must show its will not to commit similar crimes. As long as this declaration of will is not revealed, the concerns of the citizens of the entire country will continue. According to Human Rights Association data, around 940 missing persons have been found in Turkey. More than half of these cases are still unreachable. The struggle to investigate the fate of Cemil Kırbayır, son of Berfo Ana, who lost his life last year, has been recorded in our memory. The previous report published by the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Commission for Research on Human Rights in Cemil Kırbayir said Cemil Kırbayır was tortured to death in custody and his body was lost. However, four years have passed since Turkey's Grand National Assembly reports, but no effective investigation has been launched into the people who killed Cemil Kırbayır in Kars on 9 October 1980 and no public case has been filed. Dear lawmakers, the policy of punishment in Turkey remains, unfortunately. Musa Çitil, who was indicted from 1992 to 1994 on the discovery of the bones of the people who were taken into custody in Derek district of Mardin province and later lost in the mass grave. He's been acquitted by the High Criminal Court. The Çitil file provides a very typical example of the practice of punishment as a state policy in Turkey. The most important problem in investigating the outcome of losses in custody and bringing those responsible to trial is that the republic's prosecutors are constantly resorting to a statute of limitations as a requirement of criminal policy. In cases that do not expire, there is a lack of punishment, as shown in the Çitil example. Losing in custody is a crime against humanity. In crimes against humanity, the concept of statute of limitations cannot be applied. Dear lawmakers, the conscience of mankind will always be wounded unless the fate of the mothers, fathers, brothers who have been tried to be forgotten is revealed and we are questioned by the dark forces that cause us eternal suffering. This method, which is used as part of judicial executions and massacres to suppress public opposition, is to create fear and uncertainty in society and thus avoid disbanding opposition forces and fighting against the system. It's impossible to build a democratic state and society by transferring the entire legality of the past to the forgetfulness of the social memory. I hereby address all parties in parliament, especially the ruling party: Losing in custody is a crime against humanity. The UN Convention on effective investigation of this crime must be ratified and carried out immediately. It's not supposed to be, but the way to become a really democratic, secular social law state is to confront the past and show the will to bring the responsible to justice. It reminds us again of our entire General Assembly, and I expect to be shown the necessary sensitivity in this sense, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you. The second word off the agenda belongs to Dilek Akagün Yilmaz. Here you are, Mr. Akagun.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0004par0022	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book promise today to share with you the problems of the Uber province, which I am a MP in. First of all, I offer my condolences to our citizens and to our fellow citizens in all Turkey, as well as to their fellow servants in the village of Karahalli, one of whom is İbrahim Apprentice, because of the death of 301 of our 301 people and our worker in Soma. When we went to the families of the Kütahya and baneman, we promised that we would make every effort to find those who were responsible for the murders, for the job killings, and to account for both the political and business responsible, and then to ensure that the safety measures of business can be taken. I'd like to say again that I stand by my word to all my fellow citizens from this council bench. What do you think of the butler, dear lawmakers, if you'd like to examine him, do you know him, do you know him? It's the Anatolian province where the first electricity was used. The first sugar factory was founded in 1926, just after the republic. It is the province of which the Greek Commander-in-Chief Trikopis (Trikopis) has been taken prisoner, the baneman, or officially, the place where our Salvation War has succeeded, baneman. It is also the province where the treasures of Karun are found and exhibited. Again, the rug, the rug, the tarhana, actually the banelings are like undiscovered jewels. I'm afraid it's a province we don't have enough publicity for, Butler. At the same time, the second long canyon of the world is in Ulubey, the footman, the mayor of Ulbey, and I respectfully salute the governor of this canyon, and we invite all of our deputies to the weekend's Yülbey Canyon Festival. I also want to mention one of the most important issues of the servant, and perhaps one of the things that none of you know enough about: what our servants of servants are doing, what they are doing today, what they are producing, what they are doing. We produce cotton without fields, my dear friends, from textile wastes these threads are produced in the banister. The same way we make wool without sheep. We're making fibers from the pet bottle, especially to get your attention. And as you can also see, we make products from car wheels like this, especially to use them on the floor, we produce processed scales. Most of this, perhaps, you don't know. We've been recycling wool for about a hundred years and contributing to the economy. We've been producing textile wastes since 1980, and we're getting them back into the economy. We've been making fibers from a pet bottle for ten years, making the products I showed you just before the tire. At the same time, we produce blankets that use the ropes of these textile wastes, 90% of Turkey's production is done at the footman. So the baneman is a province with 1,045 tons of daily production in recycling. We produce 80% of Turkey's recycling production in Baneman. Italy is the third centre in the world after Spain in terms of the return of the footman. We employ 18,000 people in recycling. We're not content with them, we're using these recycling products so we don't need any more imported fibers, but we're also doing an environmentally sensitive recycling product, but we're not getting enough support. There's no government officials here, and I'd like them to hear it. We don't just want sectoral support for the footman, we want sectoral support for everywhere. What do we want? Before we say "old" and "new" we want energy support, we want insurance benefits, we want tax cuts. In the recycling of the junk, 8 per cent VAT is applied to the products that we reproduce from textiles while zero per cent VAT is applied to those products; we want it removed. If, as in Turkey, the rest of the cities that go forward in recycling, the baneman is given enough support, we want the economy of Turkey to know that exports will be greatly supported and that the current deficit will increase even more. We also think that there should be storage spaces for recycling of textiles and ready-made clothing products and that the textile supply chain should be created. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In fact, when I say these things, I would like to be known by them that the ministers should be here and that the recycling industry in all Turkey, along with the recycling of the baneman, is not given enough support. But I hope my friends in power will be followers of this business. Together, we will follow this work, and I believe that we will make an effort to give more support to the servant. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0005par0032	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Malatya MP Mustafa Sahin (Matatya) who wants to talk about investments in Malatya.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0006par0034	Mr. President, may I make a brief statement from my position?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0005par0035	Congressman, you know I don't have that kind of practice. Mr. Hawk, please.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0007par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I salute you all. In particular, I have made a promise to our Malatya about investments that continue to be made. IN OUR country and Malatya, we see valuable work in economics, social, education, health care, transportation, tourism and culture during the period of the EC PARTY. The province of Malatya, which serves as a bridge between the east and west, is a province of the Metropolitan province, which is moving from 2002 to about 9 quadrillion investments in state investments to this part of the region, which is becoming the center of attraction every day. As Turkey and Malatya take these concrete steps we talk about in Turkey and Malatya, we also carry out silent revolutions that will ease our people from all sides, with basic rights and freedoms to live in better conditions, freedom of religion and conscience, freedom of thought and freedom of expression, language, religion, race, creed. Happy are we to bring to life a liberal approach, not a skeptic about basic rights and freedoms, but a man who trusts in his people, not a restrictor. While we're doing all this work, we're not doing it because international organizations want to, but because our people deserve these rights and freedoms. There is serious transparency in the democratic state of law, such as torture, death in custody, loss, unsolved murders. Dear lawmakers, freedoms form the essence and foundation of democracy. Governments before us know that in areas such as basic rights and freedoms of religion and freedom of conscience, freedom of thought and expression in this country, there have been unpleasant, ugly practices that would not be appropriate in the name of human rights and freedoms, which would separate our people from each other and separate them from each other. Dear friends, we've seen people face their beliefs, their lifestyles, their search for rights, their non-legal intervention... while some of them have carried out psychological pressures on our futures, on our beloved young people, who are guaranteed our future, while others believe in the search for democratic rights to continue their studies in universities. In our Malatya, we have been accused of thinking, freedom and human rights, and of being accused of being an armed terrorist organization that conservative people could not even name at this time, and their freedoms were stolen by Zechariah Şengöz, Fahri Officer, Nurettin Kayan, and hundreds of our people, despite the acquittal of the local Supreme Court, after the unjust legal and inhuman atrocities and tortures. They were condemned by the name of the leader of a terrorist organization to put our Malatya, the peaceful city of his apartment, in order to put us in our place. At that time, Malatya stood up against the persecution of our people against their democratic right to freedom of faith and sought their rights in the democratic framework. Even though hundreds of people who have never met armed action, Molotovs, slingshots, and marbles were not involved in crime now, this place is very convenient -- unfortunately, their freedom has been conquered by the possibility that it may pose danger and threat to the country, for the country in the future. Despite all this pressure, our people have not considered going underground, nor have they challenged any illegal formation. Yes, they're trying to design their lives to build a generation that's loyal to their country, to their nation, to their faith, without embracing the kinds of actions that I've expressed above. Because these people, because of the values they believe in, they've done what's best for their noble posture, and they're still doing it. Zechariah Şengöz and his friends, who were released from prison last week under probation, were really pushing the proposals that had been proposed earlier to be pardoned with their hands, and certainly we are not guilty of this, even though we are people dedicated to serving our people, to our country -- yes, they expect their dignity returned to them by the state as well. Indeed, thanks to the upright posture of our Malatya, the young ones today do not harm their police or their people in any way in the streets, as a result of their fine cultural activities. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0008par0050	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution is required to open a parliamentary investigation under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the possibilities provided for municipalities and different applications for municipalities, in order to determine measures that will ensure the implementation of objective principles in municipal controls. [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 4) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Artvin]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Adana]] 13) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 16) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] 20) A. Haluk Coach [[Samsun]] [[Hatay]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Amasya]] [[Let's go.]] 27) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] 28) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] The duties, responsibilities and powers of municipalities are defined by the Constitution and the laws. The municipalities are obliged to provide services to all citizens in their districts without discrimination from language, religion, race, gender, and political opinion. Therefore, the central administration must provide all municipalities with equal opportunities according to objective principles, regardless of which parties the municipalities are in. At the same time, it is the responsibility of the central administration and its relevant control agencies to monitor whether these opportunities are being used efficiently and properly. However, recent events have shown that there has been a serious double standard between municipalities, both in terms of opportunities provided and in terms of audits and investigations. The ruling party usually shows that it is not permitted to request permission to investigate the executives of elected municipalities. Decisions have been made at the ruling party's General Centre, rather than running legal control routes for municipalities that have been publicly exposed to corruption. However, the municipalities selected from the opposition party have been targeted. A number of investigations launched and continued with anonymous, anonymous tip letters have tried to wear down mayors and executives. One of the concrete examples of such practices is that of Izmir Metropolitan Municipality. Over the past year, 96 people, including eight property inspectors in İzmir Metropolitan Municipality, 8 Court inspectors, 52 tax inspectors, 8 special prosecutors, and 20 investigators, have been audited and examined. The public-elected mayor is being tried as "leader of the criminal organization," the mayor is being "member of the organization," almost seen as an Izmir Metropolitan Municipality criminal organization. These applications have nothing to do with the control system and democracy. It is common for public opinion that operations against municipalities are conducted for political purposes. There are many examples that support that view. The purpose of operations, however, is to make municipal administrations look unsuccessful, to block their work, to discredit them, but ultimately, the biggest damage is our citizen. The municipalities are becoming unable to work, and the quality and quantity of the services offered to the citizens falls. Therefore, political operations must be terminated immediately. There is also discrimination among municipalities in financial matters. State resources and international grant programmes are not known to be transferred equally to municipalities. The construction of Ankara Metropolitan Municipality's debts to the treasure and other public institutions, the privileges for the transfer of debt to the treasury or deletion of debt, while the approval of urban transformation projects of some municipalities await, the short-term approval of the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality's projects is an example of discrimination practices in Ankara alone. Many examples of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality are also in public memory. In order to determine the negatives created by different practices between the ruling and opposition municipalities, to provide equal opportunities for municipalities, to ensure the proper and efficient use of facilities, it is necessary to open parliamentary research to ensure objective control. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to meet the needs of Agriculture Sales Cooperative and Associations (TSKB) and its partners, determine the policies necessary for the actual size of negatives and make legal arrangements. [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 7) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 8) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 14) A. Haluk Coach [[Samsun]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Manisa]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Amasya]] [[Let's go.]] 23) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] 24) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] The restructuring of agricultural support policies and agricultural support organizations under the comprehensive stand-by programme launched with the IMF 09/12/1999 was specifically highlighted and envisioned the adoption of a new framework law for the TSKB. The World Bank's Entity Letter, given on 10/03/2000, was also highlighted by this determination and was released into the custody of the World Bank as the Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP) envisioned in agriculture. In an unusual way, the pre-designation was adopted by the World Bank's draft, finalized by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, at 4572 points at TBMM in 1/6/2000. The Law 4572, which envisioned a new model for the TSKB, also created the Reconstruction Board (YYK). The work of the YO Board, which has been envisioned as a monitoring and monitoring unit for the operation and continuity of the new model, has also been unsuccessful since the adoption of the law. Only one of the seven members was a representative of the TSKB, an NGO model that works under the direction of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but is also open to the suggestion of World Bank experts, has played a role that has forced troops to dispossess efficient agricultural industrial facilities and has hampered the TSKB's vertical integration efforts. As a result, it was published in the Official Journal of 26684, October 28, 2007, under the title "Activation of the Regional Building" and under the title "Accession of the Regional Building." "A amendment law will be issued in Law 4572 in order to ensure that the Union has sustainable financial and administrative structures and to remove temporary substances related to the restructuring period in Law 4572." Your discretion is granted. Sadly, however, such an arrangement has not been made so far. Law 4572 has been in force for 12 years, ending its temporary YYK function, TSKBs facing a new financial crisis over DFIF debts, therefore a new need for regulation has been on the line for years, but still in motion in the government wing. That is the main reason for our research proposal. In this framework, it would be appropriate to remove 4572's Interim Article 1/D from force. In order to ensure sustainable fiscal structures of the Union, financial problems during product purchases must also be resolved. In this context, the understanding that "Cooperatives and troops (...) cannot be given any financial support from state or other public corporate persons" written in the third draft of Article 1 (E) of Act 4572. This understanding is an understanding that drives TSKBs to decontamination, and is fundamentally against the Constitution's 171th Article, which regulates "the development of cooperativeism." Therefore, temporary 1/E must be removed from effect. Therefore, it would be wise to restructure loan loans to the TSKB's Support and Price Stability Fund with the first, long-term repayment plan, and to ensure that all remaining debts, interest and benefits are taken care of by the Treasury. Given all these problems and legal gaps and delays, the discussion of the renovation of the TSKB's product procurement system to address the above-explained problems is thought to require the work of a parliamentary research commission in order to determine the details of agriculture Law 5488, which has been predicted but cannot be implemented, and what farmers expect from a support system. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the causes of the deaths of five patients who died consecutively in 36 hours from 28/01/01/2012 and 30/2012 at the Albanianköy State Hospital in the province of Istanbul, and to ensure that the measures necessary to prevent the alleged mobbing of health workers in this institution are immediately taken under Articles 98/01/2012 and 105/2012, we respectfully submit to the opening of the Parliament under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. [[Mughle]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Artvin]] 8) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 9) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Aydın]] 14) A. Haluk Coach [[Samsun]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Manisa]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Amasya]] [[Let's go.]] 23) Haluk Ahmet Silver Balıkesir) 24) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Gaziantep]] The Istanbul Albanianköy State Hospital reportedly has been admitted as a patient in the intensive care unit, which does not have the requirements for treatment in the third step, where patients who need treatment are not transferred, six intensive care beds for the unit, about 40 square metres [40 square m], there is no insulation room for infected patients, there is not enough cleaning staff, and there is not enough equipment, so there are patients who are dead. Despite reports issued by the Court in 2005-08, it has been determined that the necessary arrangements were not made on time. A) "The standards of intensive care units" published by the Ministry of Health Treatment Services General Directorate are 2008/53. The Lu General - 25/07/2008 date and 28223 digits - are specified. B) On July 20, 2011 and the Official Gazette 28000, it has been determined that the ICU services for Intensive Care Services -- which have been published and implemented -- have not been observed in the 5th and 6th Articles of the State of Health institutions and have not had the necessary squares and qualified staff. In addition, the third step has been seen to be accepted on the second step. C) The General Directorate of Health Ministry Treatment Services published by the General Directorate, with the release of 1/04/2011 and 14712 points on the transfer of patients to intensive care services in the 2011/26 district. The General Directorate for Health Ministry Treatment Services has noted that the General Office of Health Department reported that there was no harm done in the 2011/26 General Assembly on the admission of patients to intensive care services. Despite reports issued by the Court in 2005-08, it has been determined that the necessary arrangements were not made on time. In addition, it is stated that even when there are dialysis devices in the hospital, the devices are not installed, the patients are referred to Special Albanianville Hospital, a friend of the hospital chief, even when there are five obstetricians in the hospital, the maternity ward is not opened and the patients are referred outside. In particular cases, patients were taken into "sexio" and given birth at the Albanian village State Hospital, where they were not given birth. Although it was planned and opened with nearly 90 beds, the hospital's other bedrooms remain unopened, the hospital's chief of staff is constantly pressuring and insulting health workers, punishing health workers with unnecessary defences, and resorting to physical violence. The hospital's "borrowing coefficient" is stated, and since it is not possible to pay the institution's employees the rotating capital payment which is now distributed to them, it is also indicated that it may be embezzled to pay the employees back later. It is also stated that the car rented for service to the institution is not in the hospital parking lot, and that the chief of medicine takes it from home to work and home from work every morning. The reason that Albanianköy State Hospital and the Chief Residents of the Special Albanian Village State Hospital are friends is also allegedly that it is not "obligatory" to have obstetric patients and dialysis patients referred here. As of the date of the appointment of Dr. Yasar Doğan, the chief surgeon of the Albanian State Hospital, it is also curious to see the rise in women's birth and dialysis patients at the Special Albanian Village Hospital. According to a 90-bed hospital, the first five months of service in 2012 was $4,596,10. In turn, it is expressed that the services are not given quality. It is also stated that there were irregularities during the adoption of tenders to the institution. In addition to the above information, it is inevitable that parliamentary research will be opened in order to investigate the Istanbul Albanianköy State Hospital, solve health workers' problems, and prevent patients from losing their lives for simple reasons. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting Wednesday (04/06/2014), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 28 May 2014, Mardin MP Gülser Yıldırım and his friends gave him (188 rows no. lu) "In the districts of Derik and Kızıltepe of the province of Mardin, the record of the Farmer's Recording System, registered by Dicle EDAŞ to the Ministry of Agriculture system, has no subscriptions to agricultural activities as water, but it has been suggested that the parliamentary research proposal given to the Turkish Parliament should be presented in all dimensions in the Wednesday's unification of electricity (04/06/2014) and co-exploration of talks in the same date. People's Democratic Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, İbrahim Binici and Şanlıurfa MP. Here you go, Mr. Rider.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0009par0267	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party on behalf of our group's research proposal. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear MPs, as you know, the Agricultural Law was introduced and implemented by the AKP government in April 2006. The 21st article on agricultural benefits of this law provides financing of regional support programmes, budget resources and external resources. The budget's funding cannot be less than 1 percent of the non-national client's sentence. The AKP did well to pass this law, and it pleased it, but it never applied or enforced the ruling of its own Agricultural Law. The explicit support of the law cannot be less than 1 per cent of the illegitimate national client. Despite the AKP ruling, the support given to farmers during the AKP administrations remained 0.5% to 0.6 per cent on the tape and did not go up. So almost half of the support that needs to be given is unpaid, and our farmers' legal rights are publicly declared. In fact, this is the result of the political, social and economic system in which the AKP is located. What do they care about the private sector, the temples, the stockholders, the laborers who died after their hard-earned alimony, the farmers who went to bed hungry, the tradesmen who closed up without money, the millions of poor workers who worked? Dear MPs, I know that one of the AKP spokesman will now come to the stand, tell us about the support given to the farmer, tell us about it, maybe even borrow the farmers with the numbers they claim to have given. But don't bother, I'll quote you from the Agricultural Minister himself to support our farmers. See, dear friends, in the last budget speech, what Mr. Minister said: the country's development benefits have been paid $291 million, the agricultural insurance benefits have been paid 263 million, the certified seeds, the seedlings and so on, 219 million, and the compensation payments. In 2012, the amount of agricultural support we gave our farmers in cash was $7 billion,600 million. The support I've just offered is the support paid to the manufacturers as a cash and as a grant. However, other important sources for the agricultural sector are being transferred. The minister, who continues to speak, is actually giving himself away even in this sentence. Anyway, let's continue with the Minister's speech: for example, 1.5 billion payments on the purchases of land crops in the Office of Earth Mahulses, 1 billion 296 million interest subsidies for agricultural loans, 391 million for agricultural goods export support, 156 million for fishing vessels -- please pay attention to this part -- and 3 billion for agricultural watering and agricultural development services under infrastructure services. And Mr. Secretary, who collected these figures from 2012, says he has reached $15 billion. Then he refers to the law, saying it is 1.06 per cent of the illegitimate domestic product. I believe the details of this account, which the Minister made a mockery of our minds, were not overlooked. Mr. Secretary is a farmer, so he must have picked apples and pears. The minister also considered the cost of the farmer's sale of property to the Office, interest reductions, land collection, cadastro services, and investment spending by the DSI. It also included the amount of direct transfers he made directly from the farmer to large companies. For example, the insurance companies, the companies exporting agricultural products, and the companies producing certified seeds, were also given to farmers as support. So when you subtract all of these pens from the general total, you'll see that the alleged amount of support goes down to less than 7 billion. You can also calculate that, given taxes on the world's most expensive diesel and fertilizer used to farmers, the support that seems to have been given has been reset, and even the farmer has become a debtor from the state. Dear lawmakers have implemented the AKP government, its new invention, which is concerned about how to transfer support for our farmers, shaking their hands against the law, to the owners of the capital. As you know, the Council of Ministers signed a decision on the 4th of last March. According to the decision published in the Official Gazette in March 9th, farmers who owe electricity for agricultural irrigation in 2014 will not be paid to support those debts until they are paid. According to the decision, electricity distribution companies will cross-reference their subscriber records with Farmer's Recording System's records and transfer the amount of debt to the bank, which the bank will block and won't pay. So, in a more understandable way, the AKP government will collect electricity distribution companies. I'd like to ask the AKP's officials here: What other promises have you made to the distribution companies you've been chasing at the expense of? For example, if necessary, have these companies been promised to collect with police or police force? Or you can cut the distribution companies as much as you want at any time. With these cuts, you can discipline the Kurds in particular. Is that said? Look, dear friends, aside from the exorbitant bills sent by distribution companies, we're getting a lot of complaints that thousands of dollars of bills have been sent to people who don't have a water well or have no electricity subscriptions. Companies who send bills to every square inch of the land like Mad Dumrul have lost their speed and have even been billed at the cemetery in the village of Fezlikan of Mardin. I'd like to warn the government and its ministers from here. If you continue to insist on these policies, you create new Somas with people you're going to pull out of agriculture, you raise seasonal farm workers that are now up to 1.5 million years old, you sacrifice more at the tops of the tower building, on the falling piers, and you add new lives every day to the three lives we sacrifice to the capital gods. I'm saying that you can't raise coffins to the army of unemployed at work, and then to the death enterprises of those who took courage from you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0010par0277	Thank you. People's Democratic Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0011par0281	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the HDP group proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly. The HDP group proposal is a proposal for local farmers who are registered by Dicle EDAŞ in the districts of Derik and Kızıltepe in Mardin Province, at the point of investigating debts related to illegal, irregular use of electricity and resolving the persecution of farmers, although they do not have a subscription to any wells. Now, if it's not really a subscriber... then the concept of abonelic is defined according to the statement at the point of implementation of this Council of Ministers decision. He considers the concept of abonelik (e.g., "Abonelik") here as a farmer or a legal personality, using electricity in the environmental irrigation. At this point, I would like to thank HDP (HDP) for giving the group proposal. Really, here, even though he's not a subscriber, I mean, he didn't sign an electrical consumption contract with the company -- and since the concept of abonelic ▪ is determined in his notice -- then pay off this debt to the company, and then get the income support bonus. It's not true to say that it's not true. If the material truth in this motion is true, there is a legal problem here. Such sanctions cannot be imposed on farmers here, because they do not comply with the concept of abonelic (abonelic) in the notification issued by the Council of Ministers. But when a well is being shot, you have to subscribe, meaning the Department of Agriculture, DSI. If there is no subscription here, there is electricity consumption on the other hand, there is no subscription agreement on the other hand, and the electricity used here is illegal, and there is illegal consumption, the sanction is determined in the Turkish Penal Code. There's a crime here, a crime must be followed. This should be judged separately, but in the group's proposal, it's not right to say, "Go pay your debt, brother, and then get your support." Legally, it's not right to say. But it's not true: use electricity, don't pay the price. Everyone has to pay the price for the energy he consumes. The purpose of the notification here is to force him to become an electrical subscriber, on the other hand, if he's a subscriber and he's not paying his electricity debt, he's also doing something to make sure he doesn't continue. What is this sanction? If he has a contract under the NGO, if he has a registered system, and he also has a contract with the power company, we say, "Sister, go close the electricity debt, get your support. There is no legal problem here, but since the concept of abonelik. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been expressed here, indeed, as mentioned in the group's proposal, that the decision of the Council of Ministers, 2014, 6052, has been carried out, and therefore there have been victims. First of all, according to the decision of the relevant Council of Ministers... (14/9)... (14/9)... I mean, there has been an Agricultural Support Payment for Farmers who Found Electrical Refuge on Agricultural Waters until these loans are paid in 2014. As I have just stated, according to this statement published in the Official Gazette 28936, the purpose will not be paid to support farmers who have not paid the electricity debt they used in irrigating. It's an sanction. Where does he get his strength from? It is based on the Council of Ministers' decision 2014/6052 on 4/3/2014. I mean, this statement has a legal basis, which is the Council of Ministers' decision. If the legal basis for paying support to farmers -- as I have just said -- is a problem stemming from the subscription agreement, then the problem must be resolved; at this point I also agree with the group proposal. Again, according to the third article of the declaration, the concerned farmer should be a subscriber, but this subscriber, described as a farmer and a corporate person, must also sign a contract with the company EDAS, and if he has made this agreement, he will have to deal with this notification. However, he didn't make this contract, he's drawing water from the well, and the well doesn't have a license, and there's a power leak, and there's a well on the loose; and the sanction -- as I've just told you -- is a crime, which is sanctioned in terms of the Penal Code. Our purpose here, in this notice, is to force people who don't subscribe to the wells into a contract about the power company. Now, I'm going to give you some information about the consumption of electricity here, which is why I want to talk to you about why this notice was issued. The Tigris Electric Act produced 242 billion kilowatts of electricity in 2012, and that area consumed it.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0012par0292	Is this a private company?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0011par0293	Yeah. When we divide it by a subscriber, electricity consumption is 1,237 kilowatts per person, and Turkey averages 468 kilowatts per person, almost triple consumption. Again, dear friends, I will continue to give examples of electricity use here. Another striking example is that there are 297 kilowatts per person in this area. Consumption, even in the dwellings -- not water -- is 131 kilowatts per average in Turkey, which is 418 kilowatts per cent in the region. Turkey averages $43 per resident subscriber, while the Tigris region is worth $138. This painting puts it all out there. On the other hand, I'd like to give you an example of collections: Turkey's average is 43 euros per person, and 42 euros is being collected, and that's $15 in the Tigris area. In this region, only 10 per cent of the electricity consumed in the dwellings is collected. Friends, I mean, no private company, no government, no one can handle it. As a result, if electricity is being used, the price must be paid. The price should not be taken from other citizens. Again, I'd like to give you an example here: there are a total of 26.200 agricultural irrigation subscribers within the Tigris. About 23,819 of these subscribers, 91 per cent of them, are in debt to the Tigris. The total amount is $1.37 billion, I take your attention, except for the late fee. The collection from agricultural irrigation subscribers after the cycles is $28.3 million, at 2%. Thus, the fugitive is being heavily implemented here. It's a legitimate way now, and I believe we need to stop it. Another thing is about power outages. And at the point where the power outages are caused, I'd like to give you the following examples here, friends: The number of subscribers is determined on a normal scale in one region, and the number of subscribers is placed there. But because he's a fugitive, because the price isn't paid, there's three or four times the number of subscribers there, there's a consumption. So, there's no way the transformer can lift that energy, and it explodes, and there's malfunctions. In particular, according to TEİASI data, there are 70 per cent missing and fugitives in the Hakkari region. When we look at the cut rate, Hakkari comes in first place. The reason is that when there's 4,000 kilowatts of electricity with illegal electricity, the transformers explode, the lines don't work, so there's frequent power outages. The only way to get through this is through privatisation. When the privatisation is done, these will be done more carefully, and the company will invest, but it will continue to collect the price. As a result, if electricity is being consumed, it is a price that must be paid, otherwise it will cause other problems. Again, particularly, if the Council of Ministers' notification is being carried out without a subscription agreement -- I agree with the group's proposal -- it is not true, it should have different sanctions, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0013par0302	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0014par0303	Thank you. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0013par0305	Mr. President, during his orator talk, he said that we want non-members to not pay the electric costs and that we want those who pay the electric price to pay the price, to tease our group.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0014par0306	Here you go, two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0013par0307	Mr. Sixan will answer for our group.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0015par0310	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, we've talked about this electrical issue over and over again. What's the gist? Bottom line is, I'll say whatever I can in two minutes. They use electricity, they pay for it. Isn't that the right thing to say? That's what the secretary just said. Brother, what electricity, who's using, how much is he using, why is he using? There are over 3,000 escaped wells in the plains of Mardin, over 3,000. Why is he on the run? The waters of the underworld will end. The government will not allow it, and they will not give it rightly. Because it's like a straw, you're dipping it, the water coming up from 35 meters, right now, it's on the Midyat calculus, 400 meters, 500 meters... A well costs 120 billion. There are civil engineers, agricultural engineers, do the math; 120 billion. And this guy can water 100 acres of cotton fields -- one well can water 100 acres -- he's going to pay 50 billion dollars for electricity. Here, you can have the field, you plant it. The irrigation channels: For 12 years, the Gulf Dam has been flooded, there is no water on the plains of Mardin, the main channel that has not crossed the Derik road, you have finished 15 per cent of the canals, 85 per cent of the water. Why don't you connect my channel? If he's a fugitive, why do you tolerate these wells? Why are you electrifying the escaped well? It's just like my multhesis in the Ottomans. What's my multiples? He was tendering tax collection, and he was bribing my sadraza with 20,000 whites, and he was committed to 100,000 Akça, and 120,000 Akça were killed by peasants. You're not going anywhere with this multitasking system. Make the canals, finish the irrigation ducts, give the citizen his water, save the citizen's life, and you'll be saved. Find a solution to this, or all the tractors will come and be put in front of the provinces, and the land deed will be given to you, so, here, get rid of it. My respects.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0016par0314	Thank you. Hasan Akgöl, Hatay MP who has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal of Peoples' Democratic Party. Here you are, Mr. Akgöl.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0017par0320	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the research motion, as a matter of direct concern to our farmers is brought to the agenda of Congress. I hereby salute your high council. In fact, I was going to start my speech differently, but my orator friend from the ruling party just confirmed what we said, so I'd like to thank him very much from here. That's what we've always stood for. We were saying, "This government is against the farmer. This government is against the farmer." We were saying, "This government is doing everything it can to make the farmer go down." We were saying, "You're going to pay for the power money, brother, there's no way; there's no way; there's no way; there's no way you're going to hit a well; there's no way. If you've burned it, you'll have to pay for it." The farmer doesn't say I'm not going to pay for electricity. He says, "Get me a bill. I'll pay for it." Ten years ago, the price of electricity was one fifth of the masoth, one fifth of the cost of diesel before your power. The farmer was paying at the time, there was no problem. Why did it start with you? Because you gave up the farmer, you put the electricity money on top of the masoz, he can't pay for it, farmer. Well, check if the increase in electricity used by the farmer is parallel to the increase in the product. My orator friend in the HDP Group just told me the truth. You're bringing in the well license thing. So, did you build a dam for him, or did you make a canal for him so you could ban wells?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0018par0324	They built a dam, they didn't make their channels.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0017par0325	Give the man an alternative, and say to him: "This is your alternative." Say to the man: "Look, I have brought you water, you do not have to strike any more wells. Let the man strike the well and draw his water from the dam." Is he so curious that the cost of draining water from 300, 400 meters is five times the amount of water from the dam, 10 times the cost of watering it, 100 billion, 150 billion wells, electricity, transformers, and he's so interested in making it cost-to-cost production at times the cost of his equivalent farmer? You give the man an alternative first, and then, after that, if he's not paying off your energy debt, cut off the power. If he's not drawing water from your dam, cut off his support. My orator friend forgets that in this country, the farmer complains about the product he's already produced, the production inputs are expensive, the product he sells is very cheap, he knows that. Well, don't you know that this friend of mine, the farmer, is waiting to open up my brother's eye and support him, who is his only foundation?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0018par0326	1.5 million hectares of fields are waiting for water. Ten years ago...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0017par0327	Don't you know he's gonna try to survive with that support he's gonna get? But you, because of your energy debt, stop supporting him and go and do whatever you want. You have no right to do this to the farmer, my friend, and then he'll stand in your way. That's a big percentage of your voting cut, farmer. So, how are you gonna pay for all this? How are you gonna face it? And now you're saying you're gonna pay for the electricity you lit. You're going to fulfill your subscription requirements. Do you know what your subscription requirements are? First, look at him. Today, in Hatay, you have privatized it, you have given it to it, and you have given it to it. The guy's done his job, he can't find a guy to admit it to, he can't find a tech guy there. The guy's got a burned cotton, his field burned, he can't find one guy. Didn't you think of that when you were privatizing? Didn't you realize how this system would work? First the infrastructure is created and privatized. You guys do this first, then you're gonna have to cut off the power to the farmer who doesn't pay for the electricity, and you're gonna have to deal with the cutbacks. You give the parallel, give the man an alternative, brother, and then... this farmer won't let me pay my debt. He doesn't say, "I'm willing to pay my debt." This farmer is honest, he's for the right, but he says, like you're giving the ship's diesel at a discount price, give me the energy I'm using, and ask me for what I'm using. It's up to God to give it away, and you're the ones who need to know it best. Oh, there's something else. You're handing out support. Which bank do you distribute it through? You distribute it through the state's official Bank of Agriculture. I've just been reminded by my friend, the Manisa MP, that you, the government's bank, cut commissions without the government's support. So, give it 2% less, why cut a commission? Please...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0019par0330	The first three months' profit is 930 million liras!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0017par0331	For a thousand, you've only got one farmer left to ride? In a country where electricity, masoths, fertilizers, medicines are sold at exorbitant prices, in a country where the inputs are so high, you're going to cut off electricity because of the electricity money. What do you say to the farmer then, brother, what do you say? You say you don't farm, sell your farm, sell your slingshot, brother, you have no right to farm. I'm used to importing hay. There's no Council of Ministers here, and my ministers know very well that they've made a decision from the Council of Ministers for the import of hay. It says: You produce hay, you produce wheat. You don't have anything to do with it, I'll import it. Come, I'll pay you three cents. This logic must change, my friends. What do we say? Remove the VAT in energy, as before, or withdraw the VAT to 8 percent, so that the farmer can pay his debt, but there isn't. It's already been a dry year, a dry year, the crops ran out, the crops didn't come. In my area, 600 kilos of acres weigh 300 to 200 pounds. So, on top of that, if you cut the power, what's the farmer gonna water his cotton and corn with this season? You're talking about production. With what will he grow the seed that he sows and harvest it? You're saying "Alma!" You're saying to the farmer who watered the well, watering the water, that Allah has given us a drought this year, and a drought from my government, and a drought from me. You're saying: "I'll cut off your electricity, I'll cut your well, I won't water you." So, behind a dry season, the government makes sure that the farmer doesn't bring bread to his house by adding to its multiple folds. Guys, let's get our heads together. You're the ones who passed this law, we're the villagers we're addressing. If we're sitting in these seats, we're sitting in their votes, honoring their faces. If we're getting these salaries, we're getting these salaries with their taxes on their face. If we don't defend the rights of the farmer, the peasant, who we're supposed to care for, these seats are forbidden to all of us. I got to hand it to you. It's not right to sit here and say a few words to me based on the paper given by the group's vice president, the president. You'll go out, you'll go into your territory with what face, and you'll look at the farmer of your own district? I've given up support because of the electricity debt. You're going to tell me that? How dare you look at your territory? You get commissions from your own bank, government bank. How are you going to tell your own farmer? Please, guys, we're from over there. Sitting in air-conditioned rooms here, it's easy to raise your hand in the House. Go see how it's worked in a cotton field, a cornfield, how it's made. He's no different than a child; a farmer shows care for a product that he doesn't show his child to grow, he doesn't take his child to a doctor, he takes his product, and you ignore the cost of it. No, sir. Who makes the law? You take it off, we take it off. Who makes the law? We do. Well, I'm sorry, I mean, I'm sorry, but you're gonna have to sit here and take advantage of the farmer's sweat, and you're gonna sit here and try to take the bread out of the farmer's throat. So, friends, finally, I'm saying over and over again that the farmer's product needs to be reduced production costs and given the value of the farmer's product. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If the farmer survives, the market survives. There's no other solution. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0020par0342	Thank you. People's Democratic Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Abu Bakir Secretider, Nevşehir MP.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0021par0345	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. We have a motion by Dicle EDAŞ in Kızıltepe district of Mardin province to open a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution, in order to investigate debts related to illegal, irregular use of electricity and to ensure that the harm done by our farmers be taken care of, although there is no subscription to local farmers whose agricultural activity is watered down by the Ministry of Agriculture system in the Kızıltepe district of Mardin province. First of all, I'd like to say that I've come to the conclusion that this motion is just a motion for the Tigris region. The AK PARTY is the party of all Turkey, and I would like to speak as your brother from the middle of Central Anatolia, who has served as a lawyer for five years in the past because of our practice as a lawyer. It is true that right now, especially our agricultural irrigation farmers face energy input as the most important entry in Central Anatolia. However, there's no way they can be solved by palliative solutions, by palliative motions.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0022par0349	He considered your motion to be a palalytic, Mr. Baluken. This is an open taunt.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0023par0350	Yes, with or without the Turkey party...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0021par0351	In this scope, the EC PARTI government has been trying to solve this energy deficit, which has not only caused this problem since its arrival in power, but in total caused the waste of Turkey's vast energy resources, which, if I'm not mistaken, has led to over $60 billion of our foreign currency per year. What do we do at this point? For the first time, we called it alternative energy sources, and it was talked about for years, but it began to happen in our power. In our area alone, there are now nearly 10 ▪ HES built over the Kızılmak. Again, I'd like to tell you that within the GAP Action Plan for the region, again, about $15 billion was spent on watering most of it, and most of this irrigation is about watering it with a charming irrigation method. Now, our goal here, of course, is to keep our billion dollars in Turkey. In this context, if you think about the whole of Turkey, it's a very important gain that not only the region, but the solar energy systems that are very concerned about that region are being activated, and their long-term use is now on the agenda of all of us. Again, our goal here is the principle of efficiency in energy, so if we open the way for free use, we create a waste and cause an injustice. Against my better judgment, there were installments during our administration, and I served as a lawyer myself. The latest Law -6111 -- a law has been passed during the last legislature, and there is a situation with farmers who pay most in our area, which is whether or not they caused injustice. So, I think we need to adopt a reciprocity, a right, a right, a right to a subject. So far, the applications have been tried to cover this. Again, one of the most important things we have to say in this context is the production cost, so that's another critical part of the motion. Again, we just had statements from Mr. Ramadan Can. I don't want to go through this all over again. For all these reasons, I declare that we are against the motion, that we will vote against it. Also, it is clear to all of us that there are some very important issues that are now the subject of newspaper reports that have hurt all of us in Turkey, which require us to change the Turkish Penal Code, which should be brought to the attention. It's not just about the region, it's about Turkey, because we need to discuss the long-term solution to our problems, which are unique in each region, but in all. We thank you for the performance of our ministers so far at the point of further and more efficient discussion and resolution. I express the need to discuss changes in the Turkish Penal Code and other agendas. For all these reasons, I declare that we are against the motion, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0024par0359	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0025par0360	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0024par0361	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0025par0362	During his speech, Mr. orator gave a speech saying that we were narrowly drawn to the problems of farmers in Derik and Kızıltepe, not the party of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0024par0363	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0025par0364	Mr. Sixan will answer for our group.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0024par0365	Here you go, Mr. Tan. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0026par0369	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, as you go into detail like this, there are other problems. Now, the speaker spoke of solar energy, alternative energy. Well, okay, good, these are good. So, who's going to do all this? Does your government have such a program? Diyarbakir, Urbana, Mardin, Batman are receiving the highest number of days if a computation is done on three hundred and sixty-five days in Turkey's most solar energy areas today. Who's going to do it? Why don't you do it? Come on, you didn't finish the canals, you took the water, you imprisoned it, you made electricity, you didn't give it to the plain; at least give us energy from the sun of God, and he doesn't. Dear friends, our friend has spoken of the subject's right. They use electricity. You know, Yezid killed Jezid's army in Kerbala, needed a drop of water, didn't let the children drink. Only one son of Hazreti Hussein was saved from Kerbela, Imam Zeynep, and spent his time in worship until his death. One of the people who didn't have Hazreti Hussein came to Mecca at the time of the pilgrimage, said: "We are ruined, we are ruined, we are ruined, we are lost, we are lost. What happened? We killed a flea while we were in exile, we were in exile, we killed a flea." He said: "What is the verdict of this?" He said: "You killed the grandson of the Prophet, Allah willing, you did not ask for his judgment, you cried for the judgment of a flea." Again, the AK PARTY member said, "There are 1 quadrillion fugitives of $1 billion." You pardoned two companies, one is Genghis Construction, and the other is his relative. One is 600 trillion, one is 424 trillion, not as much as two firms. My respects. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Come in!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0027par0376	Thank you. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: those who agree... accept...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0028par0381	Mr. President, there's a taunt, someone respond.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0029par0382	One billion, 24 million, one quadrillion, 24 trillion tax dollars, pardoned. A billion fugitives in the entire area. May my presence not be a gift to your existence!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0027par0383	Those who refuse... are not accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0030par0385	You didn't ask... those who didn't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0027par0386	I did, sir, I did. You want the transcripts, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0031par0387	Sleep tight!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0027par0388	I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting on Wednesday (June 4th 2014), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On 30 April 2014 and 5056, it was suggested that the Council's motion for parliamentary research on Wednesday (January 04/06/2014) in order to determine the measures that should be taken regarding the irregularities of the poll boards and the irregularities of the election boards due to their work and procedures in the general elections held on March 30, 2014, under Erzurum MP Oktay Ozturk and his friends. Oktay Ozturk, MP of Erzurum, is in favor of the party's proposal for nationalist movement. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0032par0401	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the establishment of a research commission on the detection and solutions of irregularities in the local administration elections, which were held on March 30, 2014. I salute you all. With the cancellation elections being held, we have survived a difficult election all over the country. But, sadly, the elections have been the most questionable, controversial and controversial of our republic's history. Despite all these negatives, I would like to thank the election board judges, election managers and staff, who have worked very hard to minimize the problems, especially Mr. President and members of the High Election Board, who have worked very hard in this process and are trying to fulfill their duties well. It has to be known that the fate of elections has been diverted to the opposite direction by wrong decisions taken by some borough election boards in the election day and after the election day in pre-election procedures. Problems during the creation of voters' lists have led to the cancellation of elections in places such as Yalova. As voters' lists are being created, the district election board judges have asked for the lists of limited legal judges in the area, but unfortunately many people who were not qualified to vote because the lists were not carefully and carefully prepared by the justices of the peace have been placed on the voters' lists and have been affected by the fate of the elections. The ruling party, which was good at this situation, used this system of structure to identify limited people in places where it lost its elections by a small margin of vote, to identify and reject elections with objections. In this sense, it should be appreciated that the party and other opposition parties, which are not entitled to access the IYAP system, have lost the opportunity to compete equally under these conditions. Now the question is, will the justices of the court of justice, who directly influence the outcome of the election with the missing lists, be held accountable for the trillions of damage caused by the cancellation of the elections, for the lack of rights and for the functioning of democracy? Who's going to pay for this? This plague, of course, is on the shoulders of the ruling party. The ruling party has a lot of work to do on its shoulders. For example, some of the information we have received from the provinces is about voters who are not registered in office but who exist on the YSK list of voters who vote; voters who appear to be registered in the office but who do not live at that address; voters who are shown in buildings but are not present at the address of the municipality, or in empty sites. Another thing in terms of the formation of the voter lists: tens of thousands of voters couldn't go to the polls because their voter records were frozen. In the application, when there is an appeal to voters' lists, the district election boards conduct law enforcement investigations, but since this investigation was not conducted by law enforcement authorities, many of the people who were not in their home during the interrogation have not been reported, and they have been removed from the electoral list by election boards. According to previous elections, when it was found that people were not sitting at their address, the system sent their records to their former addresses, and they were still able to vote in the polls at their former addresses. Under the Supreme Election Board's decision, the record ice cream application of these elections has caused tens of thousands of voters to fail to exercise their democratic right to choose. Dear lawmakers, another issue: in the election period, the current mayors, who are running for propaganda, despite the open laws and the generalities of the Supreme Election Board, have used all ad spaces indefinitely. Under normal circumstances, advertising areas that need to be divided equally between parties have been unfairly and unfairly presented to the current mayors. This affected the propaganda process, which had to be done equally, in a gross way, from the beginning to the end. The ruling party has used state resources to the fullest in the process. Some ministers who went to election districts tried to put pressure on election workers, especially election judges. The property managers in charge of overseeing the propaganda process ignored unfair propaganda, and despite open laws, they repeatedly postponed their objections to the Supreme Election Board on the grounds that they asked the High Election Board for an opinion, allowing time to pass. After the election, the change of governors in the cities where AKP had failed is quite significant in this sense. With the end of the election, the massacres began. A number of our officers, who have been deemed non-compulsive or non-voting to the ruling party in this framework, have begun to be exiled. What do you think you're going to contribute to democracy by taking an officer named Hasan Ceylan from Erzurum, an officer from İspir district of Erzurum, and giving him to the Madman of Kars, or by ending the post-election work of members of the CHP mayoral candidate in Keles district of Burma? Can you claim to contribute to the country's presence, to its unity? Did the governors you took out of office at the end of the election not because they were governors of the government, but because they were governors of the state? We find it difficult to imagine what such an understanding would bring to this country. There's an election in any city in our province -- I don't give a name -- the governor is going to the country to collect votes. When he sees a citizen in a tie and a suit, he says: "Bey, are you the mayor of the ruling party?" No brother, I am the governor. Unfortunately, our governors have fallen into such misery. On election day, tens of thousands of voters have mistakenly placed their head office ballots in mayoral envelopes. Of course, what's wrong here is the polling boards that aren't properly trained and don't warn voters. The election, held on 30 March, ruled out 1 million 527,252 votes for the mayor of the capital city. That number is 1,840,40,40,40,000, for the mayoral election. These numbers show that there are a lot of invalid votes. Thousands of these votes have been declared invalid since the ballot and envelope were not sealed. The will of tens of thousands of voters has been invalidated because the presidents of the Covenant Board have not been given sufficient training. We regret to inform you that during the count of the votes, many of the votes have been transferred to different parties, or have been wrongly invalidated. The surplus and complexity of areas that need to be filled in the results of the poll board has caused almost 80 per cent of the reports across Turkey to be mismanaged. After the polling process was over, we saw weighty ballot bags being taken to the county election boards on the backs of the presidents of the polling boards, where they were waiting in line for hours and hours to deliver bags. Our country needs to get rid of this outdated image. Of course, it would be more appropriate for these bags to be taken into custody by the surrender committees to be formed and taken to the district election boards collectively. In these elections, we have witnessed many irregularities at the polls. We've seen a lot of things from the presidents of the polling board, even threatening the voter, to the voters who entered the voting booth two or three people, and even to the fights at the polls. Despite all the irregularities that have occurred, these issues have not been dealt with because their claims have been met with difficulties at the point of proof. In this regard, as our party, we propose that we set up a camera system for each polling booth, other than the voting booth, to see other places. It can bring a certain burden in terms of cost, but it's also important that elections in our country are held in a transparent and honest environment. Dear lawmakers, we have presidential elections ahead of us. These elections are also important for the first time. We regret to see that the President's Choice Law on this issue contains significant shortcomings because it was rushed through. In addition to the first time these elections will be held, about 2,750,000 citizens living abroad will vote for the first time in the elections. Following the end of voting abroad, ballots will be delivered to Ankara without counting and counting will begin with the end of voting in Turkey. For the first time, the majority of our constituents living abroad will vote in the elections, and they must be informed in this sense. And that's where I'm going to say that we're missing quite a bit. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0033par0421	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who has asked for a statement against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0034par0425	Mr. President, I've been promised a group proposal from the National Movement Party. As People's Democratic Party, I salute you all. The election system, election tricks, a fair election; that will never come out of our agenda, I'm afraid. When Kenan Universe struck five generals on September 12th, they closed this House, and they came in their uniforms, and sat there, and they sent the government to the Chainbreaker, and then they made an election law, a law of political parties. That's the day, this election law and political parties law, 10 per cent election dam, 7 per cent treasure dam, 7 per cent dam, what percentage dams; that's what the system looks like. Now, the will of the nation... the will of the nation... we are out of the ark. Let me tell you something, whether you come out of the chest with this election system, or in a chest seven floors underground, all of you will get in line and vote, you can't have made a choice that respects the will of the nation. The law, the obstacle; the legislation, the obstacle; the practice, the obstacle. According to the Addressed Population Registering System, logs were created and you choose according to these logs. Where does he get an address-based system? He's getting it from TÜİK. Where does he get it? From the General Directorate of Population and Citizenship Affairs. Who's it up to? It's up to the Home Office. So, where is this? The government. In whose custody are the elections held? Sir, it's under the supervision of an independent judiciary, and he's doing an NGO. So, what's going on? Do you check the spending? No. Are the votes being checked? No. Do you have an ID number? I do. Recording in an address-based system. In these elections, they lost 30 officers in a barn in Şırnak; 30 of them, I claim. Shame on you! Is it shameless? We've made an appeal, we've filed a complaint. They're bringing officers on the move to a village, together with no mayoral election, and they're bringing them in and recording them in the country. Then it's more serious: look at the election propaganda era, the state police are putting up posters, the governors of the state are campaigning, and the state's governors are filling in for the mayors of the county. You're getting Treasury money, it's not enough. Employers' private planes are taking orders. You're using the government's plane, you're driving the government's train, you're driving the government's car, you're using the government's government officer, you're using government money, you're using the government's military, you're using everything. It's not an honest choice; it's not a moral choice, it's not an ethical election race, it's not a respect for the will of the nation, it's not a fair system, it's not a fair representation system. In this fair representation, if 3 votes, 5 votes, 10 votes against the election, when the judges and prosecutors changed the Supreme Council and tied them to the Ministry of Justice, those poor judges and prosecutors began to cancel every time you agreed to your every objection with fear, when we received 5-10 votes in our municipalities. That's how you got Hasankeyf, and you got it, and I'm telling you -- you played this game in Ceylanpınar, and you played it in Bingöl, and in many places, and you played it in many places. Not enough, but you have played in Pain; you have been counted, and have not been satisfied 15 times, and have canceled Pain. That's right, we're here, we're here, we're here, we're here, we're here, we're here, we're here, we're here, we're here, we're here, we're here, we're here, we're here, we're here, we're here, we're here, we're here, we're here, But, brother, he's never seen so many cops since the Pain happened, he's never seen so many private planes, since the pain has been in the republic, he hasn't seen so many MPs since the pain, he hasn't seen so many doors of homes that have been knocked on, he hasn't seen so much attention and stuff since Pain. Why, why, friends? Yeah, can't we just make a normal choice? You have a list of bans -- you're a government. Look, there's a very good point here: because the ones under the gun, the limited ones, the court-ordered, the people who get paid from the government are disabled... who has this information? He's in the government. Is it on the Supreme Election Board? No. There's a computer center sitting on it, and it's direct from the headquarters of the AK PARTY, the Minister is bringing in the bureaucrat's information. How many constraints are there? How many votes have we lost? Do you know what they'd do if the judge didn't cancel, where they'd drive the judge? There is more than pain, my friends. There is more to be driven than Pain. And to all the objections the opposition has made, to all the objections the AKP has made, yes. What would you say to this justice, to these judges, to this conscience, and not to this man to rebel? What's the point in Yalova... that you can't choose by one vote? In this country, you can even be president. Yeah, we're gonna make a presidential choice. There are 3 million voters in Europe, 7 per cent according to Turkey. What are you going to do? Guys, should we bring those crates in F-16s? There are private planes running at you in this election, should we put the crates in it, bring them in on a scheduled Turkish Airlines plane? That's the point. The same tricks...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0035par0432	Have them bring it by plane in Roboski, by plane in Roboski.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0034par0433	I mean, he's on a plane. Who has security on this plane? They're gonna put three witnesses on this plane. One will be from the AK PARTY, one will be from the CHP, and one will be from the MHP. So, as the Peace and Democracy Party, we came up with this law when it was being discussed here. Shame on you, that's enough. Why can't there be -4 parties -- not a witness from four party groups at the head of these crates? Brother, why didn't you speak up so it wouldn't be the Peace and Democracy Party? Ah, now this crate is yours. CHP is now pursuing an alliance.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0036par0434	You're looking for an alliance.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0034par0435	Ah, you've got this crate. If these crates fly, if these crates fall, if these crates are opened, if the ballots are stolen from these crates, with these ballots coming out, if the Prime Minister or one of them becomes President by 20 votes, here's another Turkish crisis. Why didn't you put us in? It's as if we're going to put HPGs in Germany. We'll bring the guerrilla in Cologne; we'll put a warrior in Hamburg, in Stuttgart, in Mannheim, in London, in London. Brother, we have party members there too, civil society. I go and agree once a week, I talk to thousands of people, I do election work. I mean, what kind of democracy is that, guys? These election tricks, these dams, the election law of the Kenan Universe, those who didn't take the democratic package, and those who didn't do it, it's a shame, it's a shame, it's a shame. What kind of ethical issue is it to take refuge in the laws of democracy and dictators, make a runt, profit, power over them? It's a matter of scientific consideration. We're warning you about these election tricks. We're cooked. We have proved it in Norshin, and in Ağrı. We've learned to take care of the crate with his lawyer, everyone. We're training the board member, providing control over all of them. We use computers, digital via satellite... We burned our projectors so it wouldn't be a robbery, but it's gonna be a trick again. This system is open, guys. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Aha, if you don't have the ballots in Europe, AKP, CHP, mp, every three of you, if a vote is stolen, I'm telling you, if I don't come to this stand and ask you to answer for it, don't call me Hasip Kaplan. I think it should be investigated so that the President's elections don't have to be a police station or a court. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0037par0441	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0038par0442	Mr. President, may I make a statement?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0037par0443	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0038par0444	Now, Mr. Hatip Hasip Kaplan has mentioned the CHP-MHP alliance. But I'll tell you this: the public, the Turkish public, who, with whom, knows how much co-operation and alliance he's made. I'd like to state that in particular.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit01spe0037par0445	Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0037par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 97th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Ihsan Özkes, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party. Here you go, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0039par0005	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal for corruption in the election. I salute you all. Of course, the elections have come and gone, but there is still talk of injustice, corruption, deceit, intrigue, every kind of unlawfulness, and there will still be talk of it. Of course, there's a saying: Nasrettin Hoxha fell off the roof, and when it was said, "Doctor Moktor... " "No, no, bring me my share." Now, I'm one of the ones who personally suffered from corruption, corruption in the elections, all kinds of illegalities, all kinds of illegalities. And indeed, in Turkey, the elections -- perhaps not as much as necessary -- have taken place in Turkey as a district of illegality and illegality. I'd also like to talk a little bit about the practices of the Editor-in-Chief of Dianet Affairs, which welcomes unlawfulness in Skopjedar, and throughout Turkey. For example, after the 17 December bribery and corruption operation, verses about bribery and corruption and incidents were censored throughout Turkey, such as plagiarism, theft, bribery, anti-corruption verses and incidents were put on the shelf. The 38th verse of Mâide Suresi, the 161th verse of the House of Imran, concerning the slaughter of the thief's hand, the 161th verse of eating public goods, even to my daughter Fatim, who committed theft of our Lord Mohammed Mustafa (AS) again, I would have punished them. This did not happen on September 12th or February 28th. Now, see, on the Istanbul Mufti's website on Friday (December 20th 2013) it is determined to be the topic of the border, but on December 17th, when there is an operation of bribery and corruption -- three days away -- the Istanbul mufti sends an SMS to the imams to prevent the reading of the border on bribes, it says: "It will not be read in the border, it will be read in order to understand the Qur'an." So, officially, Istanbul's mufti officially removes the sermon on December 17th, which is scheduled to be read on Friday (December 20th). Now, I'm actually describing this situation as something that needs a lot of attention in Turkey. On January 8, 2014, Huseyin Çelik said: "We are all traveling together on a ship. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is the captain of the cavalry, the crew, the passengers on the other side. The cure isn't to go and drill into the bottom of the ship. When the ship is watered, you will all perish together. When does Hüseyin Çelik say that? He's on a TV show on January 8th. And now, before the March 30th elections, on Friday, March 28th, we read the book. Hutbe, ship's hut. Don't make them pierce Bilal's ships. Now, look, the sky is very strange. I'm a retired mufti. A verse is written, a statement is written at the beginning, that verse is written at the bottom, and so is the context of the text, and then they're told what's to be said in the sermon, but for the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey on Friday (March 28th), there is no Turkish text, and there is no Turkish at the bottom of the text. What? There's a lot of forceful comments that completely distort the whole thing. I'm a master of the arts, so I'm an expert. And when you examine him, he says, "What is this which Allah has forbidden?" He says, "Allah forbids theft, and forbids fornication, and forbids fornication, and forbids adultery, and forbids it." It is the law of God. It's an Arabic term, it's a religious terminology, there are boundaries, there are limits, there are limits set by God. Whatever you do, don't pierce these borders, don't pierce this border, don't cross this line. The Hazret Muhammad (AS), for example, gives the ship, he says: "Just as Allah puts down the ship, the AKP ship, which has nothing to do with the ship of Allah, which is nothing to do with the Islamic ship, the AKP ship which is not related to the Islamic ship, and the AKP ship which is not related to Islam, goes down. This is the meaning of the country, but the State of Diyanet Affairs is preparing an event such as to do what you do, don't sink it, don't sink the AKP ship. Now, that's not the end of it. There are some things I've discovered in Skopjedar, but... look at this, for God's sake: it's a policy made by the Minister in the mosque courtyard, even on the balcony of the mosque. Look at him, on the balcony of the mosque. What the hell is he doing? It's a minister! It's God's house, but it's the AKP's political office, the election is propaganda.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0040par0012	The Council of Ministers will meet there now.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0039par0013	There are hundreds, but hundreds, like this one. Don't you have any fear of God? Allah will strike you, my friends, because He has struck you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0041par0014	He hit you, too.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0042par0015	Yeah, he hit you, think about him! He hit you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0039par0016	Believe in it, God will send it down to you so that you will not know what to do or what to do.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0042par0017	You don't know what you're talking about! He hit you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0039par0018	Now, about the Üsküdar elections. It's illegal in the Üsküdar elections... for God's sake! Üsküdar could be your headquarters, it could be Recep Tayyip Erdogan's castle, it could be his place of residence. Alhamdulillah, I am a Muslim, and I am the son of this country, and I have been a mufti in Skopjedar for seven years. I mean, I don't have a right to be elected! You took away my right to be elected, my right to be elected.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0043par0019	It's flooded.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0039par0020	Now, look, Prime Minister...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0044par0021	He didn't pick you, he didn't pick you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0039par0022	He chose, he chose, he chose. I thank you from here, God bless them all. He chose me, but you stole their votes, you stole them.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0045par0023	Don't slander, don't slander.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0039par0024	I hope you'll pay for that theft in the afterlife. Let not God make you eat.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0045par0026	Not if you say so. You're on a good path, you'll fly soon, you'll fly!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0039par0027	Now, look, I'm running for mayor in Skopjedar, and Recep Tayyip Erdogan is coming out, and he's targeting me at the scholarship rally. Yes, there are hundreds of miles between Bursa and Üsküdar. His mind's in the balance. His mind's in the clouds. He's telling me that he's an idiot.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0046par0028	That's right!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0047par0029	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0039par0030	Now, my dear brothers, look, I...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0048par0031	Who's the congressman? You're rude!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0039par0032	Wait a minute... I'm a retired teacher, teacher of the Qur'an course, teacher of imams and imams over twenty-six and a half years. I was a mufti in Üsküdar. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm sorry I said that. The Prime Minister tells me that I was a mufti in Skopjedar, about seven years ago. How am I supposed to be a manuscript? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, at one point, when the Prime Minister was Mayor of Istanbul, he said: "I am Istanbul's imam. I'm an imam even though he's not an imam one day. He says...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0049par0035	Get the fuck out of here!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0039par0036	...I've been in Skopjedar for nearly seven years...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0050par0037	There were those who called him "The Prophet."
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0051par0038	You're high, you're high! You're high!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0039par0039	How am I supposed to be a manuscript? Now, look...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0051par0041	You're high, you'll be coming down soon!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0052par0042	Mr. Ozkes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0039par0043	Now look, do you know why he said that? One of them came out, and he said, "I'm waving a verse every Friday."
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0053par0044	Get the fuck out of here! Is that even possible?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0054par0045	Baseküdar saved you!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0055par0046	He's a douche bag!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0056par0047	This baccarat said it's a good reel. In the borders of the Republic of Turkey, there was only one mufti that made a noise, and you said to him, "Müsvedde. " God damn you!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0054par0049	Damn you, you! I can see what you are, you're talking!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0057par0050	Mr. Ozkes, please...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0056par0051	What kind of people are you?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0058par0053	Damn you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0057par0054	Mr. Ozkes... Mr. Ozkes, please...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0056par0055	In the Republic of Turkey, who calls God's revelations 'Bakara'....
tbmm-2014-06-04sit02spe0057par0057	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0057par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 97th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Ali Ihsan Yavuz, MP of the National Movement Party, has asked for a statement against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0059par0004	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTI Group to open a group proposal for parliamentary investigation of nationalist Action Party for irregularities due to business and functioning of election boards on March 30, 2014. I salute you all. As a matter of fact, I'm a new MP, and I was elected to Parliament in 2011. I've tried to stay as far away from the polemics as I could. Anyone who looks at my word might think it's this speaker who's going to be polemic today. No, I never intended to create polemics, to create polemics, to create chaos, but I think it's our right to respond to what's being said here, both about the issues that are relevant to the research proposal and about the other issues that have been expressed. Hopefully, I won't be able to be answered by assuming that this is an answer, as if it's a polemic, but if there's going to be a polemic about what I'm saying, I want to say that I have enough information.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0060par0006	Explain everything, brother, explain everything!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0059par0007	Yeah, I'll explain in a minute.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0060par0008	What kind of language is that? Don't talk like that!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0059par0009	Now, what am I...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0060par0010	Go ahead, explain it, explain it! I have a document, if I may speak...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0059par0011	Look, I don't know what else to tell you...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0060par0012	You'll be damned if you don't explain! You'll be damned if you don't explain!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0061par0013	Explain it to me.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0062par0014	Mr. Altay, please... Mr. Altay... would that be a style?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0063par0015	I don't know what else to explain.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0064par0016	I've got the document. He says, "Tell me if you have it, brother!" That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0063par0017	I'm really surprised that a member of the party's vice president would talk to me like that.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0064par0018	Yes, you'd be more surprised in this House.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0063par0019	I'll tell you in a moment, God willing.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0064par0020	Say it.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0063par0021	But first, I would like to say that I have listened carefully to Mr. Ihsan Ozkes Bey, the Istanbul MP of the Republican People's Party. I've seen a phrase here, as if one condition of the battle was to give the sheriff's meaning, and I want to say it's not true. That's not a condition of the border. See, when I was head of the central district in Sakarya, I often heard that the only religion with God is Islam. I've seen it read everywhere I go, but we've often heard such a rumor. I've spoken to the mufti many times, I've spoken to the teachers. They said there's no such thing. Look, I'm telling you, as someone who's heard this a ton of times, some of you have witnessed it: go, Fridays, look, it's the same verse that keeps being read from the heavens. But that's when I was told. Now, when the polls fail to yield the desired results, a complete manipulation, an example of deformation is being set up to cover their own failures, and the success of the EC PARTY is in a sense being eclipsed. It's a picture of something like this. Again, Mr. Ihsan, I don't want to answer, but I mean...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0065par0024	Then don't answer me if you don't want to.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0063par0025	...a friend who's been a mufti for seven years, a friend who's told us over and over again that he didn't curse the Prophet on his journey. And now that the Prophet knows about that, I'm deeply surprised that he's trying to curse here. Look, I don't know if you remember the trip to Taif. The Prophet casts himself into Taif, under the harsh conditions of Mecca, seeking help from his adopted son, Zayd (RA), and in the end, he is stoned, covered in blood, and even rumored that the shoes he wears are covered in blood. They stone him, they throw him into a vineyard, and he tries to save himself in the vineyard, and he tries to get a piece of him to listen, but the rumor is that on the way, Gabriel (AS) says to him, "Let me turn this place upside down." And he says, "This is a generation of those who stoned me, that believes in God and worships God." And he says, "This is why he doesn't curse me." While this matter is so clear and so proud of its mufti, I'd like to say that I'm deeply offended by the fact that our deputy put it aside and didn't see it. I don't want to say anything more about Mr. Ihsan Ozkes, but I'd like to express some particular concerns to the speakers of the National Movement Party and make some emphasis on certain issues. Republican People's Party Deputy, I'm a bit new to me, but I'm a bit of a capsize, so to be honest, I don't think I'm going to go out on this stand to make a lot of speeches, so I don't get it right away. But the document I'm giving you is more about the nationalist movement party.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0066par0028	Then get ready for our attack!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0063par0029	Yes, it's beautiful! Look, a lot of things have been said... Of course, I came in because there's time, there's not much time.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0066par0031	You really are a rookie, brother. Don't worry about it.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0063par0032	Then I'm jumping. See, appeals, complaints, polling boards of the Supreme Election Board, et cetera. Now that I realize that my time is running out, I want to come to the conclusion by skipping all this. Look, I'd like to provide you with documents and information regarding the particular objections in several places. It's like the AK PARTY has been corrupt, corrupt in many places, and has achieved success because of it. For one thing, all speakers stress it.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0067par0035	Cat in the transformer, cat, cat!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0063par0036	However, I suggest that they look at the 17th article of Law 298, the 18th article of the Supreme Election Board, and look at Article 108. I want them to read the High Election Board's Number 138 from cover to cover. If these speakers had no knowledge of what they had rights to, there is nothing I would do, but if they had read all of this material and all of this from the beginning, they would have seen clearly and clearly that there was something more difficult at the polling board or at the polls or at the polls.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0067par0037	Tell me, why is there a cat in the transformer?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0063par0038	I hope we can talk about this later, but look, I'm going to stress something else. Those who wanted to cast a shadow on the election in Ankara, you know, they went into some sort of deformation here. One of them was, there's a guy named Free Trust, Free Trust. President of the High Election Board Sadi Trust. What could it be? There's no need to investigate; he could be his wife, he could be a consultant in the big city. She was paid $10,000, wife of the High Election Board. Yeah, it's been ripped off by such a big fuss. But this is a gentleman, a gentleman. Yes, there's a consultant like that, but it has nothing to do with the President of the Supreme Election Board. She's not a lady. She's a gentleman. But you can't...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0067par0039	Who said that?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0063par0040	I'm not talking to you, Congressman, I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0067par0041	But please don't speak in the middle. You call the National Party of Action, and then you say you're talking in the middle.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0063par0042	Look, these have been done. Well, let's get to you, then. All right, let's get to you. Look, I want to give you two examples of Kastamon Tazzeytin, Yozgat Investigation, and I want to talk to his papers, but I just don't have time to...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0068par0043	Give me Adana. Give me Adana. Illustrate Adana. Come to Adana.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0063par0044	We can also come to Adana; we can also come to Yalova. What happened in Kastamon Çalzeytin? The ballots were thrown into the mud. We won by 10 votes, the election was canceled. What happened there? I'll tell you. I'd like to read the statement from the polling board member of the National Movement Party. And I'd like to read a statement from the president of the polling board that you think is the same. There's a trial going on right now. Look, if you don't want me to read the president of the polls, I'll just read you the statement from the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0069par0046	Read them both, both of them.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0063par0047	At one point, Abdurrahman Özcan entered the room where we were. Abdurrahman Özcan is the first member of the National Movement Party. He's in the room. He pretended to squat in front of the desk where the ballots were found, and suddenly he grabbed the ballots from the National Movement Party on the table and threw them out the open window. I wanted to intervene immediately, but I failed, and I couldn't stop him from throwing the ballots down. Abdurrahman Özcan left the room immediately after throwing the votes out the window. Another blasphemed, another tore up, another toppled the head of the polling board. So, this and so on in there and elsewhere is very clear, very clear, but, you know, in the end, he's passionate about other things that have been defeated, and he wants to declare a number of people to be scapegoats. That's all there is to it. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0070par0050	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0071par0051	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0070par0052	Here you go, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0071par0053	Mr. President, in many parts of the speaker's speech, he has spoken to me in person, criticizing me and twisting my name, and if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0070par0054	Like what did he say, Mr. Ozkes?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0071par0055	What did he say: that's not part of the rule of Hutbe... the text "x" was banned. She told me about him, but he wasn't like that. Again...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0070par0057	Here you go, Mr. Ozkes, for two minutes of bullying, I give you my word. Please don't give me any more trouble.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0072par0058	No more teasing, though.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0071par0061	Thank you. Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, you see, I wrote a book called The Real Face of AAKP. In this book, the subject of the war is inscribed. I'm telling you in this book that it's forbidden to read on Fridays. Now, if I go into that, two minutes isn't even enough. Now it's not a condition of Hutbe, it's the Turkish language of the law.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0073par0065	Yeah, tell me why you're cursing. Why do you curse?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0071par0066	...the meaning of God's verse will not be given the Turkish language of Muhammad (ASV) but will you give the words of Recep Erdogan? Have fear of God. You can't do that!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0073par0067	Why are you cursing the bench?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0074par0068	Mr. Bak, please...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0071par0069	I really can't do this.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0075par0070	Osman, come on, beat him up! Don't make me crazy! Oh, come on!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0074par0071	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0071par0072	As for Beddua, my brother goes out -- I bet this -- I wave a verse every Friday. He says, "This bacara is a good reel." And I'm saying...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0076par0073	Wrong can't be wrong.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0071par0074	If the person who says that is certain, it's the heretic who says it.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0077par0075	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0071par0076	I say that the one who says that must surely repent and can't come with the Muslims' votes and insult the Muslim faith, verse, and book. That's what you're trying to defend. And I say, God damn that mentality. That's what I call a fucking mentality. Now, that's...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0078par0077	Free will, free will!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0071par0078	Stealing is forbidden. I'm telling you, God damn the thief!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0079par0079	Oh, my God, are you trying to defend me?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0078par0080	There's democracy, there's freedom; we're thinking about what you think.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0071par0081	Now, what in God's name is wrong with me saying that? Now, I don't want anything for myself. I defend God's religion, and you attack me when you defend it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And I say, "Be wary of God, not of Recep Tayyip.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0080par0085	Is it up to you? Is it up to you?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0081par0086	Mr. Ozkes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0071par0087	Have fear of God, I say, not of Recep.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0081par0088	Mr. Ozkes...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0082par0089	Who is God's religion, and who are you? Is God's religion up to you? Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0083par0090	Fine, it's up to you. As if you're God's fucking collectors! Are you a collector?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0081par0091	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0084par0092	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0081par0093	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0084par0094	The orator who was just speaking to our group has been taunting us.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0081par0095	What did he say, Mr. Halaçoglu?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0085par0096	He said the nationalist Movement Party was corrupt in Çalzeytin.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0081par0097	Mr. Halaçoglu will express himself, sir, please.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0086par0098	Other than that, he said we were being irregular.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0081par0099	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu, for two minutes, I promise, because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0086par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, we'll all see the consequences of what happened in Tazzeytin, for he's already been in court. So I don't really feel the need to talk about it. I mean, you tell us all the time, why are you talking if you're in court?" Then we'll see what happens in court. Other than that, of course, look, you know, you've been objecting in a lot of election districts. These things have been wrong, these things have been wrong." he said: "O my people! Of course, but you're in power. Since you're in power, you have to ensure election security, you're responsible for securing the chest. If you can't do that, then you don't have the right to blame someone else because, as I said, you're in power, you have to be capable. But here in the municipal vote, you lost 2.5 million votes, no matter what you say. I mean, even though 4 million new voters are in attendance...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0087par0105	You don't know how to count.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0086par0106	Yeah, brother, you've had 21 million votes before, you've fallen over 19 million, and you know it, and we know it. There's no need to repay me. In addition, when we wanted to investigate this in our motion, we said: "We thank the members of the Supreme Election Board, the other judges on the election board, to those who have done their duty properly. " But beyond that, we wanted to be investigated for us and for those who have not done their duty properly. So if you don't have any doubts about it, if you don't have any confidence in yourself as a party, you'll face it. However, I would like to give an answer to your example of Taif. Now, you're right, it's written in Taberi, it's written in Kisas, it's written in Enbiya. Our Messenger has been stoned, and has not been cursed, that perhaps some of them may have faith. You said something that you don't want to be cursed, so you're saying that the AKP people will become believers?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0088par0111	We have no doubt about our faith. Don't worry.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0086par0112	No, I mean, in your own words...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0089par0113	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0090par0114	Thank you. I submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's meeting Wednesday (04/06/2014), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. Giresun MP Selahattin Karaahmetoglu and his friends gave the Parliament's research proposal (1342 places) which was given by Turkey's Grand National Assembly on 07/05/2014 to investigate solution proposals to our producer and agricultural production by the drought in some parts of our country on 29-30-31 March 2014. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, to be read in the presentations Wednesday (04/06/2014) and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal. Here you are, Mr. Karaahmetoglu.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0091par0132	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have severely damaged our drought, frosts, floods and finally filled agricultural products. With the drought, the impact of the disaster in the agricultural sector will grow exponentially and could turn into a food crisis that could affect the years to come. It would not be a prophecy in light of the data that the effects of global warming have been manifesting itself in our country in recent years. The amount of rain across Turkey appears to have decreased by 37.5 per cent compared to their average last year. In the past century, the temperature in Turkey has increased by 0.2 degrees centigrade per decade, and the rain has decreased by about 10 per cent. In the past 40 years, Turkey has unfortunately lost half of the 2.5 million hectares of wetlands. Within 20 years, the amount of water per person with 4,000 cubic metres fell to 1,400 cubic metres. The effects of global warming have begun to manifest itself faster than thought in our country. Global warming shows itself by reducing the total amount of products in agricultural areas. Agricultural land must be protected and not used outside its purpose. According to the FAO, food and agriculture organisation, agricultural land per capita in recent years has decreased by 14.3 per cent in developed countries and 40 per cent in developing countries. The amount of farmland per capita will be 0.23 hectares, and in 2050 it will drop to 0.15 hectares. In the 21st century, where famine and hunger seriously threaten the world, land and water are considered the most important strategic substances. After a dry and thirsty winter, the great frost disaster occurred on 29-30-31 March 2014. The agricultural recluse decline is already showing itself in the form of food inflation. We're all going to pay this bill in common, starting with the manufacturer and the huge losses in export revenues. Our wheat production is estimated to be 30 per cent, 15 per cent loss in barley. This means raising the price of wheat and applying for imports. There will be problems with livestock as a result of drought, food and hay production in Mera and grasslands. Turkey's grain warehouses are expected to drop by 50 per cent due to the drought in Çukurova. Sunflowers, corn, cotton products will also suffer. Despite the production of 22 million tonnes of record wheat in 2013, the negative impact of low recolte and drought will be better understood, considering 4 million tonnes of imports. The frosting that was effective in March damaged apricots in Malatya, nuts in the Black Sea, and fruit trees and olive groves in some areas. From the hailing in the Aegean region, there is damage to cherries, grapes, olives, peaches, pears, 70 per cent, 80 per cent, 90 per cent. The nut has suffered more than 40 per cent damage. Turkey, which carried out more than 80 per cent of the world's exports, reached 90 per cent of the damage to the apricot. Members of parliament, tea and nuts -- two main pillars of the Eastern Black Sea economy -- have suffered major damage from the frost disaster. In particular, nuts are the only means of livelihood for an important part of the population living in the East Black Sea region. The alternative product kiwi was also damaged by the frost incident. Turkey, ranked first in the world in the production and exports of nuts, produces 600-700,000 tons of nuts a year and exports about 80 per cent of it. These developments indicate a major loss in agricultural production of the Black Sea Region this year. Last year, it is estimated that the pecan recluse of 570,000 tons will drop to 350,000 tonnes this year due to frosts. Because of the frosting in the nut, the most crop loss is seen in the East Black Sea region. I'd also like to point out that we're offering a law on the removal of the victims of the army, Giresun and the Tripoli manufacturers. Dear friends, over a year's notice meets the need for the low years, the odds that we'll have the nuts never come true. These claims are made to be taken from the hands of our one-time nut maker, who has no nuts at all. The manufacturer, who has a few tons of nuts in our area, rejoices that I have a lot of nuts. We all owe it to him to make him pay for his hard work. After the 2004 frost disaster, the government made decisions to compensate the nut maker for the damage, but the promises made to keep the disaster's wounds were not fulfilled. We've just witnessed the estimated $1 billion in frost damage by the government with budgetary skills. They've identified 292 trillion liras, 160 trillion liras are not given to the manufacturer by budget. In 2004, Giresun lost more product and recolte, but only 44 per cent of the help detected by the Giresun County Damage Commission Report has been paid and the rest has been stopped by law. The Agricultural Minister, who did not receive disaster aid in 2004, decided that was the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Ten years after the frosting disaster on April 4, 2004, the frosting disaster on 29-30-31 March 2014 worried the nut maker very much. The AKP must organise power by taking into account its debt from the 2004 frost disaster to the manufacturer. I also want to remind you that drought is still out of the scope of agricultural insurance in Turkey, where traditional agricultural production depends on 80 per cent rain. In my talks with the Regional Directorate of the District of TARSIM, the agricultural chambers in Giresun, the County Foods, Agriculture and Petting Directorate, there is nothing wrong with the nuts in the area below the height of 250 to 300 meters. In the nut gardens above 300 meters [300 m], 70 to 80 percent, the area has frost burns as a statement. In the nut gardens above 500 meters, the same ratio reaches 100 percent. Mr. Professor Turan Black Sea, head of Agriculture at the University of the Army, says that the branches of nut trees can't repair themselves for two or three years and can't buy nuts for two or three years. The things that need to be done, the suggestions that 160 million liras, especially not distributed from the 2004 frost disaster, should be distributed to the nut producers, that agricultural and agricultural loans should be delayed one year without interest, and if necessary again to provide interest free loan opportunities; in my district, Giresun, I think it should be made a decision in favour of our producers, considering that 25 percent of the producers have received a policy from TARSIM, that 75 percent of the damage has not been done or has not been done. In addition to covering all of the victims of the frost disaster, which was launched in 2006 to address the victims of natural disasters, drought is also considered a risk, as well as the fact that drought is not part of an insurance risk, and bringing up the law proposal I made on this issue will be a significant contribution to our producers. I salute the grand jury, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0092par0146	Thank you. The Republican People's Party Group has asked for a statement against Mehmet Öğurk, Hatay MP. Here you go, Mr. Önturk.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0093par0150	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate the frost disaster in various parts of our country on 29-30-31 March 2014. I salute your high council. Dear friends, first of all, I share the same sadness as all of our farmers who suffered natural disasters. I pray to Almighty God that our country will never see such disasters again. Between 29-30 and 31 March, there was a disaster of frosts in Central Anatolia, East Anatolia, Black Sea, and even in the Mediterranean region. It's just that we don't face frost disaster on these dates either. In different months of the year, floods -- like the drought we've been experiencing lately -- we're facing floods, floods, floods, hails, natural disasters. We need to present what we need to do here objectively. One of them is, are we sensitive to the environment, what kind of arrangements we've made about it, we need to put it out there. Second, the strategy for combating agricultural drought and the plan for action, what have we done about it? Third, there were ponds, dams, and what kind of investments were made against floods and droughts; what kind of technological investments were made for the use of water more economically, and we need to examine them. And the most important issue is that agricultural insurance must be made. Against the frost, our manufacturer must save his product with as much minimal damage as possible, especially using technological tools against the frost. Another is, we don't have to, for the farmer, that government aid must continue to increase. Well, in the time of our power, I think we should take a look at which of these problems were made. Dear friends, look, the environmental use of natural gas in Turkey in the 2000s has increased by 17 per cent, while today natural gas use has increased to 32 per cent. Again, oil use has dropped from 41 per cent to 26 per cent. In addition, renewable energy is rapidly being invested and used, increasing from 0.3 per cent to 4 per cent. Again, the number of wastewater treatment plants reached 412 in 2013 from 145 in 2002. The depleted city population reached 75 per cent in 2002, when its dehydrated population reached 34 per cent. The number of regular waste storage facilities increased from 15 in 2003 to 69 in 2013, while the service population reached a level of 45 million in 2002. Another thing to do is to increase the forest area. In this regard, about 1 million hectares of forest have been found in our ten - year rule, and around 2 billion 800 million trees have met the forest. Dear friends, Turkey has been doing these procedures on the environment, but has taken serious steps in many matters that are of no concern to it. I'd like to count some of these to you: Today our government is making a very serious effort to support the use of clean production technologies, including hydraulics, wind. Very serious work is being done on determining the potential for energy efficiency. Buildings are being studied for the spread of efficient energy. Serious steps are also taken in many areas, including increasing the share of railway and sea roads, developing public transport, including the subway, light rail system, monitoring the greenhouse gas emissions of industrial companies, promoting innovative technologies, reducing the amount of organic waste that comes to regular storage facilities to compost production. As a result, Turkey has had a major struggle to reduce greenhouse gas, which will continue to happen. Again, a second issue on the work that needs to be done: the strategy, incentive and action plan for combating agricultural drought came into effect in 2006 by the Council of Ministers' decision. Agricultural drought crisis centers have been established, and the city's drought action plans have been laid out. The Committee for Early Watch, Warning and Predictive was established. In the next five years, Turkey will face very serious types of drought - both in the sense of cotton and corn - and in the sense of citrus - as well as in the sense of drought - are taking steps in Turkey. Again, we just said that one of the materials is that we need to take measures against the flood and against drought; these are ponds, dams. Turkey has built 232 ponds and dams in its last ten-year rule, while building 216 irrigation channels, 656 environmental and extremism facilities, trying to take precautions. Again, also, water needs more economic use because Turkey is not a water-rich country. Regarding this, there have been serious incentives for watering drops, as well as for the rain. Again, ten ponds, three dams in Hatay, my constituency region; some are finished, some are under construction, and the work continues. We said we had to protect our products from harm by building technological tools against the dona. Yes, for the first time in our time, we make efforts to protect our farmer from his pants by building windhogs in our gardens, giving 50 percent of them away. Again, most importantly, agricultural insurance. WHEN TARSIM came out in 2006, we were glad that the Ministry of Agriculture had solved a very serious issue. Unfortunately, our farmers are insensitive. Today, the government supports 67 per cent of the policy cost of the produce in the gardens; other, it supports 50 per cent of normal farm plants. So let me give you a simple example: today, 1,000 acres of wheat insurance costs 2 billion dollars, and the government pays half of it. From paying this kind of money -- not because it's not -- let's say it's lazy or because it's not used to insurance -- unfortunately, as our congressman just said, at 50 percent, at 60 percent, we meet our farmer every year without insurance. Of course, you mentioned something there, and it's true that natural disasters are under the insurance of this TARSIM, not including drought. And we're doing some serious work on that right now, hoping we can make it by next season. Again, as a result, I would like to say that we need to be very careful about our environment, we need to maintain our environment, we need to do whatever it takes to reduce pollution, we need to do whatever it takes to reduce emissions pollution, we need to do whatever it takes, but I think our farmers need to be a little bit more sensitive about the important issues that our government is making. Again... Oh, there's been a recent loan delay. You know, with the decision of the Council of Ministers, under the orders of our Minister and Prime Minister, all of our provinces are now registered to the CKS, 30 per cent of all of our damaged farmers' loans have been delayed by a year and related to their debt to Agriculture Bank and Agriculture Loan. There will be no more of these disasters, I say. I wish that our farmer, too, would be sensitive to the services of our government, at least have his insurance, and pay all of you my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0094par0170	Thank you. Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP who has asked for a vote in favour of the Republican People's Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0095par0174	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the Republican People's Party group proposal. On this occasion, I salute you all. The proposal is a motion to investigate the damage done to our farmers because of the agricultural drought and the frosting incident from March 29th to March 30th. I agree with this motion to the end because we are going to suffer a tremendous loss of wheat this year due to agricultural drought in Turkey. Our deputy just said 30 percent, but I think about 30 percent is going to be a lot higher than that, because I told you last week in Çukurova -- very efficient, with an average of 600 kilograms of wheat on the land, this year at best, it's down to 300-350 kilograms, 50-50. This is not 10 percent of Çukurova. This is the place that lost 300-350 kilos. So in many places, the yields of wheat dropped to 200 kilos, 150 kg, 100 kg, and that, of course, was caused by agricultural drought and infertility of wheat, which was affected by the frost on 29 March and 30 March. Thus, our farmers suffered extreme damage. This needs to be identified by the government as soon as possible. So the postponement of debt at the Agriculture Bank at 3% is not the answer to the postponement of debt in the Agriculture Loan, which is not enough, I'm going to mention that in a second. Now, last year, there was a certain recollet everywhere, about three or five years ago. In the Plain of Conium, in Ankara, sir, in many parts of the Inner Anatolia, and in the Mediterranean region, the Recolte in Hatay Amik Plain is clear. At the price of the office, the farmers must be compensated for their losses, based on the two, or the farmer will not be able to lift the burden. Anyway, we need to think about how he's going to plant his field when he's been hit by diesel intakes, he's moaning with fertilizer intakes, he's not going to be able to plant his field. Now, I would expect from our ruling party MPs, especially my friends, who are farmers: One, right now, there is a bill, the plan and the budget, and here is the removal of the interest on the tax debt, sir, of the interest on the insurance debt. Is this farmer a stepchild? Isn't this farmer the man who made this country, the man who fed this country? Why didn't you offer such a law for the farmer, or why didn't you tell our friends who gave it to him? Brother, you're protecting the manufacturer, protecting the industrialist, protecting the rich, protecting the taxpayer, not paying his taxes, not paying his insurance. Why don't we put off the farmer's debt without interest? Why don't we do this?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0096par0179	Step-son, step-son.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0095par0180	I mean, is a farmer a stepchild in this country? A man should fear God a little. I mean, I didn't get tired of yelling here, and you didn't get tired of listening. If you just listen a little bit, you'll understand some things, but you're not listening. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] Now, look, at 3% interest, the Agricultural Bank's debt is delayed, and if there's wheat in it, there's wheat that doesn't show. It's already changed the CPS system this year, it's the Agricultural Information System. Oh, it's the right system, not the wrong system, but because the infrastructure isn't ready, so many farmers are going to be victims. Here, especially now, only one in Ceyhan district of Adana. Last year, 700,000 acres of 1,100,000 acres of land took advantage of it, and this year, if this system goes on like this, 400,000 acres will only benefit from it, so half and half, our farmers won't be able to support the premiums you've always boasted about. Guys, we need to fix this sacrifice. That's the problem with all of us, it's our farmer's main problem, but you've only come out here, sir, and we've built so many dams, we've built so many ponds, we've given so much support to fertilizer, we've given so much support to the mazota. It's as if you're giving it out of your own pocket. Give the farmer what you got from the farmer, we don't want anything else, give the farmer what you got from the farmer, we don't want anything else, but you don't give the farmer what you got from the farmer. Therefore, friends are farmers, farmers, producers, feeders of the people of this country, contributing to the exports of this country. We've got to protect them, we've got to keep an eye on them. It consumes the world's most expensive diesel, the Turkish farmer, the world's most expensive fertilizer, the Turkish farmer. Let's figure this out. Sir, you give to yachts, jeans, ship traffickers at $1.5, and you give to the farmer's tractor at $4.5. Is that a response from God? So you're always treating the farmer like a stepchild, and then Mr. Secretary comes out here. Sir, we gave this to the farmer, we gave it to him. Are you giving it out of your pocket, brother? Give the farmer what you got from the farmer in this country, we don't want anything but you. Give the farmer his due, we don't want anything else from you, we don't want you to sacrifice your wheat, we don't want your corn, we don't want you to sacrifice your cotton, we don't need you to stop importing from the outside. I sang in here last year, saying, "Stop the corn from coming from the outside." Mr. Secretary said: "Only those with documents are importing." I said: "All the factories that produce bait for winged animal manufacturers, all the factories that produce bait for cattle, fill their tanks with corn with these documents, and when corn comes out, the corn producer won't be able to sell the corn." I screamed here, I screamed, no one listened. Egypt came out, under the price of the previous year. Isn't that right, Mr. Chosen? He went under the last year.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0097par0186	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0098par0187	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0095par0188	Fertilizer's up 30 percent, diesel's up 50 percent, sir, and you're looking at how much labor has gone up, and the farmer can't sell the goods he's making. Guys, you're killing the farmer. You're killing the farmer. If this farmer leaves this land, there will be chaos in the city centers. Farmers, people who make a living with a 50-acre field, feed the children of their families, make them read, raise them, feed this country. We need to protect these together.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0097par0189	And they're voting more and more.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0095par0190	Now, I'm going to mention the law again. Here, you erase the interest of the insurance debt, you erase the interest of the tax debt. Well, the watering companies have farmers' debts, they've got a ton of interest on them. Why don't you erase the debt, brother, why? What's your problem with the farmer? What's your problem with the farmer?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0099par0191	Why does the farmer vote for them?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0095par0192	Now, I, our ruling deputies, especially our friends, the farmers, expect an objection. They need to object because we need to protect the farmer together, folks. It's not just my job, it's not just the job of the opposition. I mean, I came up here, sir, and I gave you this bonus, and I gave you this support. It's not going to happen. We need to make the farmer produce, we need to protect the farmer who produces it, we need to support it. If we sell tomatoes to Russia today, it is because of the farmer; if there is no famine in our country today, it is because of this farmer, if there is no problem with our bread.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0099par0194	Tell the farmer not to vote.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0095par0195	Yeah, we used to be one of the world's most important cotton manufacturers, and we're now one of the world's most important cotton importers. We buy cotton from Greece, we buy cotton from America, we buy cotton from India. What the hell is going on?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0099par0196	We're getting hay from Georgia.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0095par0197	When our land is able to produce this cotton, our farmer knows it, we go and enrich the farmer of Greece, the farmer of the United States.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0100par0198	We'll be importing hay again this year.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0095par0199	Yeah, we imported straw last year, imported sacrifice. I guess we'll be importing hay again this year. Alas, woe, woe, woe!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0101par0200	But why does the farmer vote?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0095par0201	What if, if the farmer is voting, they're probably going to do something to us. He says, he votes for her or the debtor, what should he do? He's in debt, he's doing it for him. Now, look, Mr. Prime Minister's coming out, he says: "What if the farmer is a victim?" You say, brother. Where does this new tractor come from? I'll tell you where it comes from: our friends who are farmers know.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0102par0203	Where's it coming from?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0095par0204	I'll tell you better where you came from, Mr. Recep, if you'll come back soon. Now, he sells his old tractor, spends his money in the winter. He goes, borrows money from the Farm Bank, borrows money from the Seabank, buys new tractors. Is there anyone who can say otherwise?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0103par0206	No.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0095par0207	But no, the Prime Minister is being misinformed. And the Prime Minister goes out, and he says in the rallies, "What if the farmer's condition is bad? How do you sell so many tractors?" And, Mr. Prime Minister, that's why the tractor is being sold, that's why. Come and ask me, I'm saying this as a person who lives in this business, as a person who knows these things. But, I said it last week, and I said it before that, and I'm gonna keep saying it from now on: people who don't see dirt anywhere but their hobby garden can't understand what I'm saying. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0104par0210	Thank you. Recep Special, Isparta MP who has asked against the Republican People's Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0105par0214	Mr. President, very dear MPs, I salute you with respect. I have made a promise against the opening of the Republican People's Party's research motion. Just a moment ago, our congressman used a phrase called "the people who see the land in hobby gardens only." Don't worry, none of the people in the AK PARTY group have ever seen them in hobby gardens, they've come all the way from the most remote corners of this country, from the fields, from the villages.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0106par0217	The one who never saw the field, come on. There are men who haven't seen a field.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0105par0218	Amongst such demagogy things, there's no such thing as a hobby garden. You're the opposition that only thinks of the peasant, the farmer, not us, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0106par0219	Some people think watermelon grows on trees.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0105par0220	It's always been the AK PARTY with the peasant and the farmer and the manufacturer, and it's always going to happen after that. On March 29, 30, 31, it is suggested that the victims of our farmers who were affected by the frost incident were asked to be investigated, and they are required to find a solution. I wonder what has happened by now, what kind of measures have been taken by our government, if I may share with you a little bit... As of January 1st, from May 31st, there have been several disasters in approximately 60 cities; 69 counties, 418 districts, 14.673 villages and about 16.6 million producers. In particular, on 28, 29, 30, 31 March 2014, in 11 cities in the Black Sea, the development of leaves and calibrations in the nut orchards was affected by the frost disaster. They were especially affected by the disaster of frosts in all fruit products, such as the sea, Isparta, Burdur, Malatya, and the hard core, such as apricots, cherries, cherries. All these influences are part of the Agricultural Insurance Act 5363. Only because the frost disaster we've been through is in the flowering season, the underwear after the flowering pays insurance, so here's the trouble because it doesn't pay in advance. What needs to be done is to expand the scope of TARSIM (TARSIM) and include risk coverage in drought and before flowers. It's obvious there's an arrangement here. As a result of reports to the Agricultural Insurance Pool, damage detection has also been conducted by TARSIM experts. Definite damage assessments are complete on the nut. Since frost damage occurs during flowering season in apricots, apples, cherries, and all other hard core fruit, certain damage assessments can be done and completed during the harvest period. As a result of damage detection studies, the compensations of growers who receive agricultural insurance will be paid within 30 days at the latest. Of course, due to these natural disasters, the postponement of loans -- loans to the Zaraat Bank and Agriculture Loan Cooperate -- also took effect in the Official Gazette 28999 of May 13, 2014. The decision includes all of the disasters throughout Turkey from 23/8/2013, which is now in each case, to 31/12/2014, without a separate Council of Ministers' decision in each disaster.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0107par0225	Mr. Recep, tell me the interest rate.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0105par0226	The decision includes fire, extreme heat damage, floods, floods, floods, storms, overfalls, snowstorms, hails, frosts, droughts, lightning strikes, and tornado disasters. From this decision, the actual or corporate person manufacturers registered to the Farmer's Recording System (or Ministry) and other registering systems are covered by the Co-ops Act 24/4/1969, dated 24/63 and under the Co-opperatives Act 1163, whose crops, products, facilities, greenhouses, and greenhouses are at least 30 per cent damaged by the county, damage assessment commissions. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism also benefits from the General Directorate for agricultural co-operatives and Agriculture, which is part of its mandate. Our ministry has been working on the drought since 2006. The arrangements have been made. Of course, these studies -- these works done by the Ministry due to frost, droughts and disasters -- have fulfilled all the obligations necessary and necessary. The parliamentary research commission... the problems are clear, the solutions are clear, and since we have an agenda today, and today, the bill on the crimes of sexual abuse, which is expected in public, and a bill on the Constitutional Court of the HSYK, which has been cancelled, and a bill on the filling of materials in the void, I say we are against it. I hope, sir, that the next time our peasant, our farmer, will live a period of time without being subjected to disaster or harm, his income will increase, and I give all of you my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0108par0232	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0109par0233	Prayer is a good thing, but it doesn't work with prayer.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0110par0234	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions, one. However, the speaker has given false information to the public and to the Parliament. I mean, your debts, the farmers...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0111par0236	The Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0110par0237	Mr. President, it's a very important question.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0112par0238	You don't have to fix it.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0111par0239	Please, Congressman.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0110par0240	Look, the farmers' debts are being delayed.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0111par0241	No, we don't have that kind of procedure, Mr. Tanal. Please.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0110par0242	The interest is illegal. What's the interest demand for? Mr. President, interest is illegal. They say interest is forbidden. The farmers' debts...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit03spe0111par0243	I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes, and I will look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0111par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 97th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the Republican People's Party Group was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, but we move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. İstanbul MP Erdogan Yüğünın; İstanbul MP Sebahat Tucsonin; İstanbul MP Sena Kalliτin; Gaziantep MP Mehmet Candy and 7 MPs; Antalya MP Yıdiray Sapan Τin; Eskişehir MP Kazim Kurt and İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin İrkulu; İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 592 rows. Congressmans, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Omer Süha Aldan, Müğla MP who has asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Aldan.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0113par0023	Mr. President, the most important duty of parliaments in the modern parliamentary system is to make law. The laws, as a rule, are organised to meet social expectations, to expand the scope of administrative necessity, public order, democratic rights and freedoms. In addition, the laws are fundamentally abstract and objective norms; as long as they remain in effect, they must find a practice field without looking at individuals or groups. Making a law also means indirect control of the executive body in terms of saving on legal ground. The law must be addressed under the rule of law and influenced by universal legal values. Again, the laws should not include provisions that create social dissolution, restrict the spaces of freedom for no reason, maintain the interests of individuals and groups, produce loss of rights, and are incompatible with the Constitution and other laws, and should not be the product of what I say. Also, making a lot of laws shouldn't be seen as a source of pride because laws aren't factory products. Besides, the law doesn't mean a collection. The important thing is to do the law instead of much. And it's unacceptable to take out the laws that extend democratic rights and freedoms and not apply them or hand them over to bad appliances, especially not to be used as tools to play a role as the apostle of democracy. The law should not be seen as a source of political singing cunning, as it is not a means of satisfaction for the pleasure of compressing the opposition by being brought up with last-minute attacks. However, there is a bad habit of law against individual or political interests, when the day comes, it will shoot its maker, and if it is shot, it won't be able to make a sound. The law is not only a business for modern parliamentary systems, but also the laws of dictators, which lack the values and rules that we state above, rather are regulations that aim to keep current administration at work. In this respect, the main duty of parliament is not to make law, but to make good law. The good law must carry three basic elements. First, the current arrangement must be written in accordance with the method of lawmaking; second, it must be based on as much common wisdom and effort as possible; and third, it must not contain specific provisions. Dear lawmakers, can we say that as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we are acting in accordance with the technique of making laws? Absolutely not. The most important proof of this judgment is the work and so forth that we are now discussing. As much as a new bill or bill, maybe more, we have to discuss amendments. I didn't keep the statistics, but I wouldn't be surprised to see there's no law on the laws adopted in the last few years that haven't changed. In fact, the existing laws may, of course, require a change from time to time in the nature of social dynamics. However, the main reason for the changes to the General Assembly's agenda is either that the public does not find social response or that there are provisions that contradict the Constitution or other laws. So we don't have regulations that fit the law technique, and since our House isn't doing its part, we can't, in fact, give our people good laws because it can't. And among the reasons for these changes, there are those who don't like power or who don't like conjunctive. Unfortunately, the migration is fucked on the road. The logic and the majority of the Parliament are, however, if we need more, we can fix it. It can bring comfort and carelessness with it. However, as the law turns into a sabbatical, lawmakers' precious time is wasted, rights are lost, and such sloppy regulations hurt a lot of people. I suggest that those who view opposition's rights as an attempt to block the work of the Parliament should look at the matter from that point of view. Another phenomenon is that there is not much common sense and effort in legal regulations. One minute, in the ruling party's programme, in the government programme, even in the government's rhetoric, the proposal or bill is on the agenda, and we're witnessing the culinary products of a special group, which are not known to the ruling party MPs or even to the managers. Of course, such arrangements often involve either the background or the marginal benefit of power. The regulation is not required to be debated, academic ideas are not respected, the world examples are ignored, the Constitution is ignored, and most of all, the opposition, which begins with the word "party," which starts with 50 per cent of our nation's play, is despised by the word "conceived" -- a copy of each other, the indisputable speech of democracy. Of course, the opposition can also make attempts to deserve criticism, of course, to have a large majority of votes and deputies, but if this painting has become an ego, then we are facing an important problem if it has reached the point of speech as much as the vote you received. Especially when you despise the opposition, or even further, and you don't know the type of thinking that you don't know, it's not the healthy mental reflections of our political world. Because the sense of self - control comes with the sense of unnecessary view of opposition as soon as opposition becomes self - control. But good or bad is the reason democracy exists, the opposition, as the mortals in power will one day taste. While it is understandable that the opposition is tense in the distress of staying in the minority, the tyranny of the country's sovereign power is not a reasonable course of action. Even if it is only once in a while, can I be the one to drive this opposition out of control? For all these reasons, laws should not be a means of implementing a person's ambitions, longings and plans, and parliaments should not be seen as an institution dedicated to that purpose. In short, quickly remove the image of Parliament, the special official. At this point, every member of parliament is assigned to whatever his party is. Instead of looking at the co-chair's finger, it's important to listen to the voice of conscience and realize that you're a free individual. Dear lawmakers, the judicial package we're discussing with the 592 rows is one of the other judicial packages; we're used to it now. As there are significant structural changes in this judicial package, there are personal adjustments in the judiciary, but almost few of the 99 clauses here have been violated, a large majority of the existing laws have changed. Now, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has become, as it were, a repair shop. Our job is to change the laws once again converted into puzzle boards. Of course, by the way, financial errors do not include personal, personal, personal arrangements. First of all, I'm going to evaluate this law in the other part of my speech under certain headings -- one time, there's an increase in punishment. This law came to the agenda of public opinion on the grounds of increased punishment for violence against women and children, but when you look at it, there is no regulation in this law against violence against women. We also see increased punishment for sexual assaults, but by the way, the concept of the child who was framed has been ignored in this arrangement. We've paid as much attention as possible to draw attention to this issue in the commission's work. On top of that, we don't call children under the age of 18, we don't call them criminals, we call them children who are accused. And I don't see any point in either selling drugs, supplying, use, qualified theft, increased punishment for sexual assault. Increased punishment has never been a deterrent of crime. In fact, there are social reasons that drive people to crime, there are sociological reasons, there are economic reasons, there are cultural reasons. If you're thinking about putting aside the fight against them and just raising the fines and deterring them from a crime, you're wrong. There's another incident on this stand where I give you an example. In Turkey, he was sentenced to death by adding a joke to the 450th article of our former Penal Code, a crime of murder due to blood feud, but we could not prevent the feud in Turkey. But with the collapse of the feudal structure, the development of communication tools, in Turkey today, the feud has now reached its marginal level. Therefore, the increase in punishment, regardless of the social, economic, political nature of the work, certainly does not affect giving up crime. You lock one person in, it's a business, the drug industry -- someone else will find their place there. By keeping that person in prison for years, you won't be able to stop the drug trade again, I'm afraid. In addition, an increase in punishment will bring violence with it, for fear of being caught with it. I'm afraid in the future, there will be a number of attacks on our security officers, which we will be able to witness many of these incidents. A second point is that increased punishment brings the bribe as a means to avoid that punishment, and a corruption atmosphere will be created in Turkey. In short, a lot of punishment is not a deterrent of crime, but there is a philosophy here, which is a product of the idea of creating one kind of human beings in Turkey. I mean, I'm just young, light-faced boys, that's the whole point. I mean, it's the understanding that I'm going to take people in with legal regulations, but there's a fact that five times in prayer, we see a lot of people's children are drug addicts in this country. That guy can't even take care of his kid. Instead of bringing people into a rudimentary understanding, it's important to seek democracy, to care about the freedom of the individual. Another arrangement is intended to be made in the penal system. For years, there has been an amendment to the 2004 Turkish Penal Code and Penal Code. There is a period of three months, and it seems very difficult to carry out the litigation court within these three months. Another important issue in the criminal trial is that the judicial courts will be removed. The removal of the judicial courts of peace is a correct attempt as a rule, but the court of peace has been dismissed and replaced by a court of justice. This means that there is now only a judge in charge of making decisions such as arrests, arrests, seizure, and search. The number of these judges will be extremely few and will serve in certain places in Turkey. In fact, the basic intention here is that we need to find a place so reliable that we avoid surprise decisions. By the way, we're removing the judicial courts of peace, but let's not renegotiate with the current surprises through trusted justice judges. It's his understanding. Here, another decision has been made for the magistrates. The authority to examine a prosecutor's decisions that there is no room for prosecution, which is known in public as a non-obsession verdict, is subject to a severe criminal court in the current arrangement. I mean, a trilateral panel of judges examines and decides a non-objective decision, but with this arrangement now being made, it's left to the justices of the peace, so it's left to the one judge. An important guarantee is being taken from the objectors. Think about it, there's a very important corruption case, and in a case involving extremely important allegations, the prosecutor will decide not to follow up, a judge in the same place -- which should not be ignored here -- will review the objection and object to the decision of non-objection, and if there is no new evidence, there will be no further investigation into that incident. This is a complete insecurity. Secondly, didn't we just arrange for a person's phone to be bugged... in a more simple process in the judicial court, in the past few months, to be unanimous by the criminal court? We did that, but today, taking a very important decision, such as lack of surveillance, from the criminal court to the one judge, I think it's a huge contradiction, and it's an important indication of the legal perspective. Dear lawmakers, we know there have been problems with the provision for a postponement of the sentence due to the illness. There's been an attempt to bring in a favor here, but in the current arrangement, again, in the implementation, the judges will be shy in delaying the execution of sick prisoners, and the problem will not be solved. Another important issue is two private arrangements. One is the regulation of Article 277 of the Turkish Penal Code. Now, those who attempt to influence the judge, the expert witness, and the witness in an investigation will be considered innocent. This is a direct personal arrangement. Now, if a justice minister, as he wishes, calls a prosecutor in the course of an investigation, gives instructions, makes an attempt to cloud a fair trial, it will not be a crime. Also, if you threaten a witness in the course of an investigation, you can only be tried for the normal threat; if you press, it will not be a crime; if you are an expert in the investigation process, it will no longer be a crime. This is a direct personal arrangement, and it is against the Constitution. A second personal arrangement is that, as you know, some local executives of the ruling party have forged thousands of members of our party members as members of the Justice and Development Party. The penalty for this crime is from one to three years in prison according to the Political Party Act. Besides, it's a forgery in a private document. Again, Article 207 of the Turkish Penal Code (Turkish Penal Code) organises forgery in the private document. The punishment was increased from one year to three years, but our fellow lawmakers came up with an offer and said: "Let's reduce the sentence to one month to three months for the false membership registration of the Political Parties Act, and as a result of our discussions in the Commission, this sentence has been increased a bit, but this is directly contrary to the Constitutional principle of equality. So, if an ordinary citizen commits fraud in private documents, he will be sentenced from one year to three years in prison, but a politician, if he does, will be sentenced to a punishment far below that. Also, I would like to warn my fellow members of the ruling party: Due to these charges, our friends who have been released from prison for less than a year -- the local rulers of that political party -- will be able to replace you in this Parliament after one election. You'll have given them that opportunity. The people who forged the document will be able to be members of parliament. My dear friends, another important issue -- MASAK -- is an regulation of the law on financing terrorism. There's an electronic notification app here. Electronic notification means that if you can't find one person in electronic notification, if you want to freeze their assets, you send an e-mail notification to that person. This notification is considered served from the opposite side, and according to this, you can freeze your assets, but in this arrangement, it will suffice to send a text to any person's e-mail address, so that person's assets will be frozen. This is a severe attack on private property rights. And I'm guessing more or less what this is all about, but I don't want to do the polemic thing here. Dear MPs, these are the issues that I can sum up on the general, but my final words are: please save Parliament from becoming a repair shop, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0114par0052	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who has asked for the People's Democratic Party Group all over it. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0115par0056	Thank you. Mr. President, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party, I salute you all. I hope that one day justice will come to this country, because do you know how many judicial packages this is? We forgot to count it, guys. How many judicial conventions were held, we've forgotten the number. I started as a lawyer in 1980, and we talked about judicial reforms until I became a congressman. Then we worked at the bar, and we talked about judicial reforms again. The process of the European Union came, and we said: "Our politicians don't have the brains, they can't do it, they don't want to do it, they don't have the capacity for reform, and their mentality isn't capable of that." Perhaps we can organize it under the influence of external dynamics. During the coalition administrations, the late Ecevit team adopted a 17-point constitutional reform. I'd like to thank everyone who contributed at the time here. In fact, the basic regulation of that period included the rights of personality in the Constitution, basic rights and freedoms, right to live, human dignity, torture, fair trial, independent trial, impartial trial, independence of the courts, all of them. Then there was an election in 2002, an AK PARTY ruling majority in parliament, a CHP main opposition. In 2004, you removed the 90th article, international contracts would be under civil law in Turkey. It was a Constitutional decree. And I appreciate the contribution here, but in this country, we couldn't explain it, there's the Constitution at the top of the pyramid of the law, and then the law comes, and then there's regulations and regulations and regulations and regulations and regulations. Friends, Turkey does not rule the Constitution, Turkey does not govern the laws, Turkey is governed by secret regulations. Can you tell me what the penalty is for disobeying the Constitution, for disobeying the Supreme Court's provisions? Oh, how many folders like this, log-like, brick-like, judgment package. Can you tell me the penalty for violating the Constitution in Turkey? I will now violate the Constitution on that bench. So, what's the punishment, is there a punishment? You're the minister, you're the prime minister, you're the government, you're the government, you're the judge, you're the prosecutor, you're the police, you're the guard... if there was a measure of this, not everyone in this country would be listened to in secret, friends, not everyone would be heard in secret. From the Chief of the Constitutional Court, from the judge to the Chief of Staff, from the Prime Minister to the opposition, not everyone would be heard. Is there a law to rest? Can you tell me what constitution you can listen to? In what country's constitution, the law says, "Take out tapes of blackmail, intervene in politics." Those who can't question the morality of blackmail tapes can't be guardians of children's sexual harassment, they can't protect women's murders, they can't get justice in this country. Guys, we're talking about a period of over 150 grand in prisons. In 2004, the basic law was the Turkish Penal Code, the Penal Code, and we all know that we were part of it as lawyers. Why haven't you applied the litigation courts for ten years? Tell me, why did you wait ten years? You didn't have a building, you didn't have a judge, you didn't have a clerk, you didn't have a typewriter? Guys, can you tell me what you didn't have for justice? You didn't have carbon paper, or you didn't have alcohol pens? Can you tell me what's wrong with you? Why didn't you do it for ten years? You didn't do it for ten years -- the bar president stands in front of me -- due to the remittance courts that haven't been implemented for ten years, the hearings in the appeal have not been requested for up to ten years, the right to defend has been eliminated in the Supreme Court. The defense has been eliminated, the hearing has not been requested. Because you were going to go out of court and you were going to go through court, you were going to pass the court, you were going to pass the court, you were going to pass the court, you were going to pass the district court, you were going to see the laws there, you were going to see them for five years, you were going to go to the Supreme Court, you were going to talk to them for ten years, and then you were going to go to the Supreme Court. You know what happened here? For ten years, there have been no court of law. They put torture and abuse into the 240th article. No matter the shameful crimes, thefts, auctions, frauds, thefts, all of which were punishable between two and five years. Then they downloaded them for another year, put some of them on hold, and you know what happened in the Supreme Court, thousands of cases, they expired. It's time-consuming justice for my country, you know? Not only in these, not in torture, but in the rape of children, in the death of women, in human life, in the burning of villages, in the unsolved killings, everywhere, justice has always been exceeded in Turkey. What's that like? Is it for nothing that we're giving the Department of Justice what we know about the budget, how many billion we're paying? I don't think it's enough that the Board of Judges and Prosecutors and the judges and the prosecutors and the Department of Justice and the government. And then? We'll be there. What have we got here? Exceptional courts, State Court, district administration courts, a couple of problems with women, patients are required. Oh, for God's sake, do you believe that this will bring justice to Turkey? The government's looking, I'm privatizing, the citizen's suing the administration court. Let me see, how do I get past this obstacle? I'll run the mines, get a license, how do I get past the CED report? The citizen is going to the administration court, how do I prevent that? Historical artifact, first-degree site, where I'm going to build, destroy 10,000 years of history, a brick-sized kebab restaurant on which I'm going to build, how do I disable the judiciary? One thing I will do is come to me, and they take me to the administration court for causing corruption in the Law of Contraction, and how will I prevent it? There's no reform of law in a mind like this, friends, not in such a mindset, but in a time of dictatorship, Go and make these laws and save me from this way, save me from the DED, save me from the license, save me from the judiciary, and I'll do everything quickly. In three days, pumpkins don't grow, eggplants don't grow, cucumbers don't grow, but in this country, a mindset wants to raise billionaires. Such understanding cannot protect children's rights, women, human dignity, human rights, law in this country, friends. We talked here every day about 550 convicts. When we spoke here, the funerals of the people whose name we mentioned, the report we discussed, the report on the coroner's office came out the same night. Where were you? Why is Forensics only making decisions about sick prisoners? Didn't you build universities all over Turkey? Didn't you build hospitals all over Turkey? Aren't there full-fledged hospitals all over Turkey? Isn't that the doctor over there? Isn't that the expert over there? Isn't that medicine? Why don't you put these on? Why don't you have these? Why can't a citizen go to any doctor he wants? He can't go because you only direct the doctors, experts you want as political power, false reports, false reports to Forensic Medicine, and from one address, you get this one-handed. Now, you're increasing the punishment for child rights. When you increase the sentence, can you prevent sexual harassment, assault, murder of children? There are fines, and you can raise them if you have to. But as long as you don't develop anti-crime measures in a country, as a preventer of crime in that country, as long as your universities don't work in that unit, as long as science, education, pedagogy doesn't work in that unit, as long as you can't determine what crime is running through the streets, you don't have a government, you don't have a street, you don't have a street, you don't have a street. As long as you can't create a country like this, increase the punishments as much as you want, you can't prevent crime. Let me tell you something, I'm a 30-year-old criminal lawyer. Let alone a man who goes to prison for rape, for rape of women, for rape of children, can't live in prisons in Turkey, Turkey, there's no chance of survival. Everyone in prison knows that.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0116par0070	You've given every man you get ten years!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0115par0071	Ten months in prison, he'd be in danger of life, not that much security in prison. I mean, it's not like you guys do ten years, you do 20 years. What's your preventive measure, inhibitor? Can you catch them without committing a crime, can you arrest them without committing a crime, can you take precautions, prevent them from selling girls in student dorms without committing a crime? I'm asking you, have you been able to ask your children who were tortured, raped, your own Ministry of Justice, your Ministry of Justice, your government, whose name is Justice, have you been able to ask them for the account of this rape in a place under your faith, whose name is justice? What did you do? Mr. Secretary, come out, tell me on this stand what you've punished those who raped children in Posint, and tell me what you've done with this bill you've given me. We're going to the world record on women's murders. We kill women every day, we watch women's murders on the news every day, can you tell me what you're doing? Which one, which one? In Bursa, Adana, İzmir, Antalya, İstanbul, everywhere. There's a thing called crime pursuit, there's a thing called crime prevention, there's a thing called criminality, there's information about police. You have taken the police - 30,000, 50 thousand - you spray them in the Square of Salam, you fill them in the Square of Salam, one month, 30,000 police, 40,000 police, 80 TOMA, your armors, your vehicles, all of them, how to silence the opposition. Don't you have any other understanding? How do you solve it? Why don't you put 50,000 cops in there and have them attack people on May 1st so they don't celebrate? Send these perverts, these rapists, these murderers, why are you chasing the opposition, chasing the unions? He'll use the freedom of expression there. You're on the wrong track. You're using the power at your disposal incorrectly. You're misusing the law at your disposal. You're using the police under your command incorrectly. You're misusing the TOMA, at your command. What you've done wrong is injustice in Turkey, cruelty. It's like a torture house. Prisons. You've ruined the lives of all the F-types. Because of their political opinion, you've corrupted tens of thousands of politicians in F types, and you're being cruel in F types, a hostile law is being enforced. This is what you do in private court, in state security courts, in martial law, with the Anti-Terror Law. If you have justice, come and remove this Anti-Terror Law. If you have justice, let's remove the residue, sediment, error, filth of these special authorized courts. But you don't come to the point, you don't come to the truth. You don't want justice in Turkey. You don't want to have law in Turkey. If there was a good judgment in Turkey, he would have grabbed you first, taken you first, judged you before all your mistakes, all your sins, all your actions, all your corruption, all your atrocities. You don't want that kind of judgment for him. This judgment will come to Turkey, my friends. Justice will come to this country. There will be no persecution in this country. We're not gonna count this law. We won't recognize this law. My mayors are still in prison; they haven't done anything since the election; one of them has a press release. But those who carry the camel with the bark, those who carry the trillions, the billions, the ISIS, the El Nusra, the Al-Qaeda, the suicide bomber, the logistics, everything, the people who help them, the people who pour death on them, the people who commit war crimes, the people who commit crimes against humanity, the people who commit crimes against humanity. What's that like? What kind of justice is that? Prisons are crawling with my friends. Have they not looked for you, or come to you with a letter, or come to you with a phone? Don't you know the injustice of these punishments, the injustice of these laws, the favorism, the judgment on this side, that people are no longer going to court in this injustice, that people are now going to the Czech bond mafia, that people are out there looking for compromises and solutions? Can you get me a statistic of justice from the east, southeast, how many citizens trusted to go to the gates of justice and ask for a solution to the problem? You can't make one out of me. You'd be surprised, my friends. The citizen no longer solves his own problem at the gates of the state in court because he doesn't believe. He doesn't believe it, he thinks he's gonna get in trouble when he gets there. He thinks he's gonna come in looking for his rights, thinks he's gonna get beat up while he's looking for his rights, and he's shaking in fear of uniforms when he's looking for his rights. Well, why can't we have an independent judgment? Why can't we form neutral courts? What in God's name is this? What's holding, what's blocking? As much as he wants, set up a court of appeal, change the law of procedure as much as you want, pass the law of the State, without changing the mentality, without changing the mind, without changing the conscience, without changing the law, without changing the law, without asking the legal account, there is no justice in this country, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No justice, my friends. No justice. I'm in a riot state. I've been a criminal lawyer for 30 years, I've done international law, I'm still coming in with sleeping bags... I'm sick of talking about it. You're going to protect three judges, you're going to shake four members of the State over there, you're going to take his place there, you're going to take his place there, you're going to take his place in the deep, you're going to take his place there, you're going to judge, oh, here, they're listening to me, it's happening. What kind of law is that, an enemy to your bar, an enemy to your lawyer, beating up your lawyer? We say the right to defend is sacred, the right to defend, the right to attack his people in prison, then he violates the Constitution, and there is no punishment for violating the Constitution. We say it's not fate. As the People's Democratic Party, we will be the voice of justice in the face of this persecution. The presidential election will be the voice of justice for us. We will seek justice, and one who will stand for justice will dwell in the house. We'll call it justice, we'll shout in the square, without it, there'll be no humanity. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0117par0079	Thank you. Murat Basesgioğlu, İstanbul MP on behalf of the Milliyetci Movement Party Group on behalf of all of them. Here you are, Mr. Basesgioglu.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0118par0082	Mr. President, I have been promised to present the views of the National Party of Action on the proposed bill of law. I salute your grand delegation and our beloved nation who are watching us now. Despite some changes in the Turkish Penal Code, the law has changed many laws. I mean, we're seeing the same bag of laws that we've always object to here. Since we've made our objections very clear in the past, we're giving those opinions about the bag of legislation as a reference, and we just want to say once again that in Congress, it's against the traditions of Parliament, it's corrupting the quality of legislation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as you may recall, the preparations for the most radical changes in our criminal law began in the second half of the 1990s and in the 2000s. After a period of about ten years of preparing, studies in criminal law have been initiated by our late Hodja, who I am a student of as well as the head of the Science Board of Peace, and in 2005, changes have been made very radically in 14 laws, especially our Criminal Law, and in order to update the Italian law, which has changed countless regulations, which is old and does not respond to our needs for social justice. However, Faruk Bey is here, and we probably have friends who were in the Commission at that time, and the talks on the Justice Commission are far from the science commission's draft. Adeta, in the Justice Commission, this penal code and other laws have been redesigned, reflected. Thus, the spirit of philosophy and laws set forth by the scientific board was in some sense deprived. That's how a law study was done. So, 2005, we've done about nine years, we're going to ten years, when we've all evaluated the practice performance of these laws together in ten years, and we ask ourselves, unfortunately, we can't get a positive answer, the question is, after nine years of practice, did the laws that we've done in this criminal law satisfy our need for social justice? Is the need for justice satisfied when our citizen goes to court? If we were to ask, are the people who distribute justice and demand justice happy about this painting -- there are many negative examples -- despite the amount of energy we've consumed, we can't respond positively to that. We couldn't give him the fifth one we've ever had to make. But the judicial packages you've made have been limited to current needs far from the original goals. The energy pipeline of BOTASH was cut, and we increased the crime of theft. There's been an update somewhere else, and we've increased the sentence. Thus, we have come to the logic of making a law stemming from the social and political events we face. This, unfortunately, has taken us far from integrity, from the generality of the law, from equality. Mr. Omar said it beautifully, as if our Parliament had turned into a law-fixing machine. However, making laws is the most important duty of the sovereignty of the state, the most important duty of Parliament. Such frequent changes in the laws have undermined the security and stability of the law. Unfortunately, that's the kind of painting we're dealing with today. My dear friends, for the past few years in particular, the ruling party's ability to make laws has been reduced to two points. First, he began to regulate the law with the instinct to control the judiciary and protect himself. Second, he began making laws in person and in order to create the infrastructure of the so-called opening process, which we object to as the party. For example, what was done to control the judgment? The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Act has been passed, and all hell breaks loose here. We've worked in Congress, commissions, all day long. This, unfortunately, was an arrangement that extricated judicial independence, judge guarantees, and handed over the powers of the Council to Mr. Justice Minister, which was partially violated by the Constitutional Court, but not entirely the missing ones here. What else happened? There has been a change in the Supreme Court Law, a change in the Law of State, a change in MIT Law. It's all, it's all the laws of control. After the trauma of December 17th and 25th, the ruling of the Justice and Development Party, unfortunately, violated the security, stability of our law, and caused very permanent damage that was not possible to be repaired in the future. Only in the law? And as a manager, it has caused great, lasting damage. Only in the law? And he's done a lot of permanent damage to the administration. We don't know the number anymore, how many thousands of cops have somehow been removed from their posts. In the police force, promotions have not yet been announced, perhaps the only example we've encountered in law enforcement. In accordance with the law, the promotions of the first-class police chiefs of the 3rd, 4th-grade police officers who should be promoted were not announced today. Public personnel in other institutions like this have been replaced, and we're saying it's an administrative savings that hasn't even happened in a very extraordinary time. Well, what legal arrangements did he make to investigate the so-called expansion process, and let me give you a few examples. For example, the fifth joke in Article 6 of the Anti-Terror Law has been changed. What does he say: the right to comment and publish on terrorist organization propaganda. Again, the second joke of Article 6 of the Anti-Terror Law has been changed regarding the declarations and statements of terrorist organisations. Again, Article 7 of the Anti-Terror Law is a provision for the propaganda of the terrorist organization. Article 215 of the Turkish Penal Code has been changed in praising the criminal and the criminal. The sixth joke of Article 220 of the Turkish Penal Code has been changed on behalf of the organisation. Again, the seventh joke of Article 220 of the Turkish Penal Code has been changed, the aid joke has been changed. The eighth joke of 220 is that organization propaganda has been changed. The Penal Code has been changed, it has been given the right to defend in the main language, it has been replaced, and it has not been satisfied with these laws, and many administrative savings have provided logistical support for the so-called expansion process. For example, the student oath has been lifted. Well, if I want to put my words together again at this point, I'm afraid we see that the energy to make laws is driven to these two points. These two things have one thing in common, and you're giving it to the community with sweetener. For example, there will be support for this so-called expansion process, and the period of arrest will be reduced, people. It is called "O people." Now, in this bill that we're discussing, the way he presented it is that sexual violence against children, women, sexual assault, and murder of women will be avoided. That's the general framework. Yes, there are provisions in the bill. Those are very innocent reasons. There's no way any of us can argue with that. Indeed, in this sense, there have been many deep-seated events in society, many of them we hear, many of them we don't hear, but in their victims, there have been real traumas near them. This needs to be handled. Anti-drugs. My dear friends, the age of drugs has dropped to a very small age, dropped to secondary school levels, reached a point where our youth is threatened. And for that, we must take precautions. But that's not the whole story of this bill. What's in this bill? There's a quick trial, a series of reasonings, discrepancies from contract laws, conflicts from privatisation, discrepancies from urban transformation, a series of reasonings. What do you mean? The appeals period has been shortened, the litigation deadlines shortened, the appeals against the decision to stop the execution have been lifted, so our citizens' rights have been shortened in the face of the actions of the administration. So it's impossible to present it in the name of democratization, in the name of freedom of rights. France also has a series of trials, but there is a series of trials on the rights and freedoms of citizens. For example, if foreigners want to deport a stranger according to the Law, the judgment must be decided within 72 hours, not seventy-three hours. Which was left for the judge to decide which conflict would be subject to a series of reasonings, and we counted them as a law. What else? We're closing the court of peace. We believe that the peace penalty, the original punishment, and the severe punishment three are important in terms of residency. This concept needs to stay intact. What else? We're changing the structure of the judge. Once the Supreme Court Act is passed, all members of the Supreme Court will change their position in the apartments. The board of presidents will be able to hand over a member of a law firm to the criminal department. Which means that the earned rights, or the acquired experience, will suddenly go to waste. There's a charge of tampering with the judiciary, both in the investigation process and in the process of prosecution. We're taking it down now. Why are we lifting it? Obviously, there's a shortage of current needs. Again, we've worked hard on lawsuits against judges and prosecutors. Hodja Haberal is here, the liveliest example. We've changed it over and over again. It didn't work for the teacher, it didn't work for the teacher, so we did it, and we ended up saying, "You can't sue the magistrate and prosecutors, you can't sue the government, you can't tell the judge and the prosecutor. I don't know if it's the fourth change or the fifth change. I mean, there are things like this, innocent reasons, that fit in, that are hidden. It's very important to hold a case in the administrative court. There will be seven or eight district law suits. If they're going to serve like little counselors, how will justice be fulfilled, frankly, we have concerns about that. How are we supposed to do that with the judge and the prosecutor's deficit out in the open? We're concerned that the workload will increase. If the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court hand over their files to these courts, there will be much chaos. Yes, I think I've made my point, my dear friends. Again, let me say a few words on this item presented to the public by the bill. The issue of crime against sexual immunity and the fight against drugs, as I've just tried to put it, is a conscientious and moral mission that our society has to prioritize, with constitutional assurances. But fiction is very important here. I mean, if we put the whole system's recovery on the back of the criminal justice system, we're not gonna get any results. I'm afraid we may have acted in the same way here, or we may have acted in the same way. So, we're increasing the sentence of these perpetrators. My dear friends, increasing the sentence is not a cure in the modern penal system; rather, it is an incentive that challenges worse crimes, more violent crimes, to destroy evidence. In fact, instead of increasing the perpetrator's sentence here, we need to see how we can protect the victims. How can we protect our children, how can we prevent young marriages, how can we prevent domestic violence, how can we preserve divorces, social tissue, how can we rehabilitate street children, how can we solve the problems of children born out of wedlock? Changing the 102, 103, 104, 105 is not the only solution without taking care of them. And we've made a lot of changes in the past, and unfortunately, we haven't succeeded in that. These crimes are outrageous crimes, which destroy man's honor, his dignity, his social sense, his solidarity. It is in fact the duty of all of us, all of us, to fight these crimes. Although the Ministry has done this as a promotional priority or as a matter of other intent, we as the Nationalist Action Party Group share the sensitivity at this point, and we've also expressed in the Commission that we're helping with the best possible release of this clause, and we want to express it here. My dear friends, speaking of children, we also need to address the current issue of the kidnapped children. Yeah, he's been occupying our agenda for a while now. This, though, has been burning the hearts of mothers for a long time, burning them since 2012, but it has only recently reached Ankara. From 2012 to 2012, there are more than 500 children kidnapped in Diyarbakır and Hakkari, not 15-25, more than 500. 13 years old, 18 years older. That's a big number -- which Mr. Prime Minister also expressed in the group speech -- there's a kidnapping in the province of around 20. We don't know where the number goes. Now, kidnapping a child is a crime, so kidnapping an individual child is a crime. The punishment for kidnapping this group is a matter of other considerations. Now, here, of course, the way he's fighting this business is extremely interesting. Our government says that children have been kidnapped. I respect the tears of mothers. Who are you hoping for? He's a political party MP. Come on, you find them, go find them, get them, come on. Friends, the government is not an NGO. Civil society organizations go to parties, they make demands, but the government is not a place to complain. The government is responsible for bringing these missing children back to their mothers, who voted for them. But here's the thing: Aman, if we do something, there's gonna be an opening damage, a so-called opening damage. We're in this state of mind. The public officials there are watching in this state of mind, saying that if we do this, we will damage the so-called opening process. There's no way to accept the government's weakness. He was boasting, saying: "Here is a government that arrests and judges the chief of staff of this country, the commanders of the military, and orders to arrest the Chief of Staff of Israel and the commanders of the military." A government that boasts about it has to find and bring children kidnapped in Hakkaride, Diyarbakir, and other provinces. He can't do this by asking other political parties to help him, it's an expression of inability to do so. It's said that if a wolf grabs a lamb on the side of Dicle, we're responsible. Is it just the shore or the sand that this idea of justice is happening? Not only children are kidnapped in lice, workers are kidnapped, soldiers are kidnapped, representatives of political parties are kidnapped. It's requested, and bring these friends from the government... No, that's not gonna happen. None of us, as Parliament, should say yes. There's no legitimate excuse for this, my dear friends. One other thing: yesterday he came down to our agenda very strongly. What is it? It has been said that political delegations are now involved in the so-called opening process. This is a very important sentence. My dear friends, a terrorist organization has a logic that it knows it can never defeat the regular army against it. The PKK set out knowing that it could not defeat the 800,000 Turkish army, but it calculated that one day, I would struggle, shoot, break, become legitimate, deal, and negotiate. That's the target of the terrorist organization. So far, 60 or so governments have arrived. No government has recognized the PKK, in terms of negotiation, neither in terms of legitimacy nor in terms of dealing. You did it, this government did it, and the so-called opening process doesn't help the Kurds or the Turk, because there's no intimacy, no trust relationship; everyone's trying to make compromises in tactical, strategic steps. I don't know about the other side, but whoever the government has a dialogue with, it's got to be open, it's got to be brave. Even our ancestors declare war. So I've got the presidential election in front of me, and this is the election. You're not going to play in this so-called opening process. If there is a disturbance at the end of this, the political, social cost of this would be too much for all of us -- this country, east and west. So we are disputants, we do not believe. It will neither bring us prosperity, nor will it bring us happiness. On the contrary, there's a man who's going to tear us apart, tear us apart... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're saying this from the bottom of our hearts.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0119par0111	So what's your project? Can you describe the solution to this problem, your project?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0118par0112	That's something else.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0119par0113	Go ahead, tell me.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0118par0114	I'm out of time.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0119par0115	I think you should tell him today.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0118par0116	He's got a solution.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0119par0117	We'd like to know about your project.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0118par0118	He's got a solution. Yes, my dear friends, my time is up.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0120par0120	Easy, easy.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0121par0121	Let's hear it. Let's hear it. What kind of project? How will this problem be resolved?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0118par0122	We have opinions on that, too.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0121par0123	How will this problem be resolved without meeting, without dialogue, without negotiation?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0122par0124	We'll tell him.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0118par0125	Look, you're saying that if this happens the most, it's regional autonomy. ▪ Regional autonomy means giving up the freedom of a Kurdish citizen. The biggest migration, the biggest escape will be after this regional freedom plan of yours. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0123par0128	Thank you. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who has asked for a word on his behalf.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0124par0130	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath on the Turkish Penal Code, and on the draft of the Law to Change Some Laws, and on the proposals made by some of our friends, and I salute you all. The esteemed MPs, Mr. Yalçin Akdoğan, the Prime Minister's Chief Minister after an investigation of December 25, 2013, December 17, and December 25th, on charges of corruption and bribery, say that those who have framed the national army of their country, national intelligence, national bank, civil power in the hearts of the nation... have been framed. So the special official says that the trials made by the courts were a set up by the Prime Minister's Chief Minister. On 5 January 2014, after expressing his views on the Prime Minister, Ergenekon, the Sledgehammer and these, we are already optimistic about this issue, which is the subject of a retrial. My friends are doing their work on this, and these studies are almost over. I'm stressing, my friends, that on Sunday, January 5, 2014, the Prime Minister says the work on retrials is almost over. I told the Minister of Justice again in his presence, that they will be in touch, that they will evaluate them, and that they will speak. There's nothing wrong with us at the retrial point. I believe this is his statement after his meeting with the President of the Bar Association. Friends, on January 8, 2014, there are letters from Mr. Hüseyin Çelik, AKP Speaker, to me and to the Prime Minister, especially to some people in the lower rank. They say that people who are tried in these cases are being victimized by, say, a sledgehammer action plan, a lot of things. Is it something that we need to block our ears with? Of course not. These people applied to the Supreme Court individually. If someone's produced evidence about him, it's human rights, he says. Again, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, our Minister of Justice, spoke at the Justice Commission on January 16th -- which was before this -- I forgot the number of these packages; one of these packages goes out before the other comes out, another goes out -- see, my friends, what he says: TCK, CMK, has announced that they have prepared a new package about TMK, and that they will release it to the public as soon as possible. He also said there will be an arrangement to protect the person's safety from the judiciary at the highest level. Now, after these words from our Minister, my words remain in words, these words of power. When I say them, we will take concrete steps, not to mention the criticism of the opposition that these words will remain in words. So that's the whole retrial thing. It says there that Mr. Secretary Sledgehammer and Ergenekon have welcomed the retrial of their defendants. In fact, it's not just the Sledgehammer and the Ergenekon defendants, it's who's going in here. Now, friends, we're moving away from the stove, so I said this: we all know that the investigations on December 17th and December 25th were investigations to seize power, and my opinion is confirmed that the Prime Minister, the government, and the public are bringing the investigations into the agenda of the government to bring it to its side. Because after Mr. Secretary left, he says they were working on an additional criteria for retrial first on May 12th -- he explained a lot here, there's a lot of debate about retrials. Finally, my dear friends, we've come in this package that the Minister promised, and our Minister says in the Commission, "Sir, we can't find a formula for retrial, we can't find a formula for retrials." In the commission, it is one of the architects of criminal law, criminal law, and criminal prosecution law, Mr. Adem Soker -- a professor I love and respect for his knowledge -- and in the last three or four years, the right to a fair trial in Turkey has been violated, and many cases have been filed, and investigations have been filed. There's some conviction decisions about these things. If the Constitutional Court does not resolve it, such methods as the restoration of a reasonable trial should come to the agenda. My dear friends, this has come to pass. Now -- I just said -- what did the Minister say before? He said, "We'll bring the arrangements for TCK, CMK and TMK." What else did he say? We will bring security arrangements for the rest of the people, he said. And in the Justice Commission, after this HSYK Act, we will bring an arrangement for the retrial, he said. The Prime Minister said that the January 5th was almost over, that it was about to end. How does an issue that ends in January become unresolved in May? My dear friends, look, the penal code has been changed 18 times, the 108 has been changed. There are changes that have been made three times in the same year. For example, it changed three times in 2013, twice in 2014. Again, the Penal Code has changed 14 times since the day it came out, the 91 clause has changed, and in some years it has changed twice. Now, this Penal Code and Penal Code came out in the 22nd term, when AKP and CHP were in parliament. Some of its articles appeared as a whole against the Republican People's Party, but now, the system of the Penal Code is breaking down. So you, as the AKP's government, are making changes in the Penal Code and the Penal Code in order to meet your needs, depending on the conjunctive. So if there's a job to be done in Parliament, we do it. And you find that there's an incident in Parliament that needs to be done to eliminate the dangers against you, and you do it, but you don't really resort to it to prevent illegal massacres. Mr. Minister says we couldn't find a formula. We, the Republican People's Party, offered a law, actually offered more than one law. In my proposal for the law, Mr. Minister, there is a legal proposal to be retributed on the grounds that decisions which have been made, which have been finalised, which has not been finalised, which is in effect, are in violation of the duty and authority of the law. You said you couldn't find a formula, and I'm giving you a formula, Mr. Secretary, but you're talking there. If you ask Mr. Commissioner for our proposals of the law, you'll see the formula in my proposal of the law. That bill I gave you wasn't just prepared by me, the key criminal lawyers of Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My teacher, Koksal Bayraktar, was also inspected and seen by Feridun Yenisey, Özer Uzbek. That's why the formula is clear, my friends. What matters is the intent of political will. I would, and I really wish that the penal code would change the antidemocratic provisions of the Law. Make real changes to the Anti-Terror Law. In fact, I am a person who favours the removal of the entire Anti-Terror Law. I've been saying that since 2007, but I'm afraid that's not part of the 104 clauses, my friends. When we're on the subject, we'll discuss them separately, we'll talk about them separately. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0125par0146	Thank you. Murat Gökturk, MP of Nevşehir, has asked on behalf of the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Gökturk.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0126par0150	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the entire Bill of the Law on Changes in Some Laws by Turkish Penal Code No. 592. I salute your esteemed delegation and our beloved nation, who are watching us at the head of their television. Yes, indeed, we're here on the agenda of a bill that makes changes in many matters. Now, the fellow speakers before me have made some criticism of the lawmaking technique. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the only place to use this power in the name of the Turkish nation, where legislation is being carried out, law enforcement is being carried out, and it is our duty here to make arrangements in the time and place to meet the need as long as society needs it. In this regard, I think we should make these arrangements, if it changes 18 times, if it changes 28 times, if it has to be changed. The bill provides arrangements for many matters. Of these, the provisions made in the Turkish Penal Code and the theft against the peace and peace of society, the crimes committed against sexual violence, sexual immunity of children and women, children's sexual abuse, the production of drugs, the trafficking, and the use of trafficking, are severely increased. Of course, increased punishment is not a single solution. In terms of crime and the pursuit of the criminal, increasing punishments is just a means to be used, but as the AK PARTI authorities, we, as well as the development of social, economic, cultural and education of society, have to go to the needed punishments in the Turkish Penal Code to be inadequate, to address the problems in practice. Therefore, increasing these sentences with this need has come to the attention, and a study is ahead of us, which is directed at increasing punishments. One of the basic principles of criminal law in connection with the crimes committed, as I have just said, is that punishments are deterrents. The penal code, which is in effect, appears to be in its application that the punishment for the crimes we count above is not sufficient at the point of deterrent, but does not meet the needs. Because of this, we find that punishments have been significantly increased in terms of the public's conscience being relieved and not getting away with it. In particular, recent acts of sexual violence and abuse against children and women have shown the need to make new adjustments to the public conscience. Again, serious complaints about theft and serious difficulties in the community, the punishment of the thief and the widespread spread of the theft of the crime, and the deterrent measures have been brought to bear deterrent punishments. In Article 41 of the Constitution, there are obligations to the state and the government concerning the protection of the family and the rights of children and also to the protection of youth in Article 58 of the Constitution. In order for these to be achieved, there is a need for effective fight against drug-producing, drug-producing, supply, and sale, especially drug-related drugs. It's acceptable, so it's not possible to accept that our children, our young people, are in danger of this drug. Hence, it is necessary to work seriously on this issue and ensure that those who commit this crime will not be punished by being followed. In order to fight crime, to fight crime effectively, the punishment must be followed well, the punishments must be deterrently weighted, and the execution of sentences imposed by courts must be taken. The bill has also covered this issue. Again, the bill eliminates the distinction of the court of justice and the original criminal court, and the jurisdiction of punishment is met under a court of law, under the roof of the criminal court. In this way, the procedure that arises during the trial will also be met with challenges and challenges related to the mission. Instead, there is also a judicial justice for the work that the court of the peace now considers to be allegorical work, and also for the work that they are looking at as part of the trial. The judicial judges will decide on the implementation of protection measures such as search, capture, and seizure. This will allow further examination of the subject and eventually a sound decision to be made, and in this regard, a singularity of decisions. Again, regional administrative courts have been transformed into a sort of adjudicial courts in terms of administrative judicial law. A second-level judicial system is being introduced in the courts and administrative judiciary, which aims to ensure that both the State Department's workload is significantly reduced and the State Court gains the property of the court. Since many issues will be settled by the district administration courts, a serious reduction in the court's workload will occur. The current system considers about 70 per cent of the cases handled in administration and tax courts as an appeals court and is under a very difficult burden to handle. The period of decision-making of files pending an appeal is more than four years. With this arrangement, these times will be shortened in a very important way and will be able to accelerate the trial. In order to speed up judicial services, to be effectively and efficiently presented, there have really been significant changes in both physical infrastructure -- the construction of new courthouse buildings, adequate staffing, the development of the National Judicial Network (UYAP). As I just said, it is the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to make these legal arrangements as long as society predicts needs. Again, there is an arrangement for the Supreme Court. That is to ensure that the Supreme General Assembly of the Supreme Court provides the Court's work department, the number of apartments and the task arrangement. There are already 23 legal agencies and 15 criminal agencies in the Supreme Court. According to the number of files in 23 law offices, the number of files in the court of law states -- 136 thousand, 15 files in the criminal office, 385. The workload in 23 law offices is half the workload in 15 other prisons. Thus, this causes the number of files to occur between the apartments in a load that cannot be lifted. The issue of the release of the work department and the deployment of the mission to the Supreme General Assembly of the Supreme Court is also organised to address the files faster, faster, and more rapidly, to determine the decision. In the end, arrangements are arrangements to respond to the needs and needs of our community. It's all right. It's the arrangements to make our citizens' lives easier and to ensure the trust, peace, and peace of mind of society. He says I'll vote in favour of the bill, and I wish our nation well. I salute your high council and my beloved nation.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0127par0170	Thank you. The question-answer process will now be done. Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0128par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. What I'd like to know from the Minister is, how many prisoners and prisoners are there in prison right now? How many of these are in bed for drug charges, and how many are involved in terrorist activities? Is there any treatment or assistance being given to those who have been released from prisons after completing their sentence for drug crimes? The second question is, how many Turkish prisoners are there in prisons in the countries of the European Union in particular abroad? For what crimes do they serve time in prison? What's the number of Turks on drug charges?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0129par0176	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0130par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 18 of the bill will also apply pressing judicial procedures, publicisation, tender transactions, privatisation work, CED decisions. These are the topics where corruption is committed and the rights of citizens are violated. Isn't it a violation of property rights, water rights, right to live in a healthy environment by rushing into a trial? Isn't this immediate judgment really an unfair trial? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0131par0181	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0132par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. Our fellow Justice Commission member who just spoke on behalf of the AKP said: "The Justice Commission will be able to decide on the matter of confiscation, and will be expert on the matter of confiscation," he said, "But will you change the decision on whether or not this seizure, technical monitoring, wiretapping or heavy punishment has been issued on the part of the AKP, Mr. Secretary?" But our friend is not aware of what has been done in this matter, and I am asking Mr. Secretary of State, because he has spoken on behalf of the AKP: Would you change the decision on the issue of the issue of this seizure, technical monitoring and listening? Or is our friend unaware of the arrangement? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0133par0186	Thank you. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0134par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, your brother, who was previously Assistant Chief of Staff in the Ministry of Justice, has been appointed High Counsel with your savings. Again, with your presence in the Ministry of Justice, important bureaucrats -- including the senior officer -- have been changed. Is this because your savings are related to the parallel structure of bureaucrats who have been deposed, as you call them? Is that why your brother was dismissed? How many people have been replaced since you arrived at the Ministry? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0135par0191	Thank you. Mr. Sugar? No. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0136par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, in Article 58 of this bill, you say that if someone over 18 is raped, they will be sentenced to 12 years in prison, and in certain conditions they will increase by 50 per cent. In the 60th article, you recommend two to five years in prison if a child under the age of 16 to 18 is given algebra, violence, and sexual intercourse without cheating. A 16-year-old boy, married, say, no algebra, no violence, no tricks? What girl would stand up to her parents and say no to a marriage? Won't this bill increase the number of children's brides? Doesn't that increase the number of children's marriages? I'd like to think about it now and ask that the arrangements be made when those substances arrive. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0137par0198	Thank you. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0138par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you know that there are three prisoners in the Canakkale Closed Prison, in the barracks there, in the area of one person? We've got as many complaints as we can get. What's the reason for his capacity? Again, are you going to improve the rights of our employees, the warden, the warden, and the others who are on duty here? Because they have such expectations. In addition, how many closed prison constructions are there in Turkey this year? When this is over, how many prisons will be finished in Turkey, and how much will the total capacity be?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0139par0204	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0140par0206	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there's been an appeal against the judicial justices of the court against the decision not to prosecute. However, in the same area, the justice court in the same place can be contested. The former, in our current arrangement, would be contested by the nearest harsh punishment against the decision not to prosecute, and will now be contested by the justice of the peace in the same place. Both prosecutors and judges can be influenced because they can be together. In addition, will it not result in a serious loss of rights on such decisions, prosecution, prosecution, and prosecution of the court of justice in the same place, prosecution, and surveillance? Don't change the arrangement on this and really... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do you have any idea what it would be like to make it the way it was before?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0141par0210	Thank you. Mr. Gökturk...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0142par0212	Thank you, Mr. President. I've just been promised to answer the question of the speaker friend. We're here to discuss the implementation of protective measures in terms of the court's court of law regarding the seizure of the previous judicial package...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0143par0214	Mr. President, he needs to ask questions, he's answering.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0142par0215	Okay, I'll turn it into a question, I'll turn it into a question.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0143par0216	Ask questions!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0142par0217	If you're patient, we can transform it. Please don't interrupt me!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0143par0218	You need to ask questions.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0144par0219	Mr. Gökturk, ask your question.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0142par0220	They'll probably have overlooked the distinction of protection measures here, which should have been unanimous in the severe criminal court about confiscation, but I want to say that at the moment, in the court of justice, there are protection measures to be given by the bill and by the court of justice, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0144par0221	Thank you. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0145par0223	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, again, December 17th and 25th corruption, corruption, corruption investigations are being carried out, especially Republican prosecutors. In exile, these people's children's school conditions are not particularly taken into account, so the son of the concerned state's attorney has earned an Anatolian high school or a private vocational high school in that province, and there is no school where you appoint them. I mean, what's with all the cruelty and all the hate? You can make an appointment, you can take it from there for the sake of the investigation, but isn't that the kind of attitude that punishes his family, especially not the person involved? What understanding do you make of this? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0146par0226	Thank you. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0147par0228	Thank you, Mr. President. In treatment of drugs, there are AMATEM centres in our country, such as alcohol and substance abuse treatment centres. Is there any study of 2015 in which new centers are now being opened? Another question is that many of these centers currently do not have psychiatrists or psychologists. Therefore, there are major staff shortages. People go here to be treated, but they leave without treatment. In this direction, is there any study of increasing the number of staff here? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0148par0232	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0149par0234	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the charge of tampering with the judiciary is being lifted in the course of investigation. Why is the crime of clouding this trial removed from the prosecution, the prosecution, and at the same time the crime of affecting the witness is under investigation? What we've all been thinking about is that Mr. Secretary called the Attorney General in the process of investigating December 17th and 25th, and he wanted these investigations to be put on the shelf; that's what we heard, there was a claim. Is that what this arrangement is for? We'd like to know that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0148par0236	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0150par0238	Mr. Reshad was asking the correct question, how many prisoners are there in the prisons now, how many prisoners? As of now, we have 20,736 prisoners, 11.410 prisoners, 120,066 prisoners. A total of 152.212 people are in prisons. He also asked me about drug-related numbers. There are 7,052 prisoners involved in drugs, 20,702 prisoners present. There are now 27,054 people in our prisons, arrested and convicted of drugs. Of course, we have citizens living abroad, or we have citizens on trial for crimes charged with various reasons abroad. Both our Foreign Ministry, the President of the Turkish Community and the Ministry of the Foreign Affairs abroad, are deeply interested in them. I told my friends to dig up the numbers, and I don't have their exact number right now, but the inmates are really in trouble there. We've been doing all of our interviews, and we've been doing an agenda on these, and we've been focusing on the judicial cooperation of this -- in matters related to their punishments -- and I want you to know specifically about that. When the number comes, I'll also introduce you to the numbers on this. Regarding the rapid judicial procedure -- both Mr. Acar and the speakers have expressed -- there's a good point here to emphasize that the immediate trial does not eliminate the trial. It's as if judicial control is being eliminated in matters involving immediate judgment, which is extremely wrong. For once, is the subject of administrative judgment being moved? He's moving out. If there's something he needs to go to county court, is he leaving? It's going in the current application. Is the part that goes to court going away? He's leaving. There will be no recriminations when the application comes, but now, when you look at it, the application is the same again; the administrative judiciary is making the decision, the plaintiffs are appealing it, the prosecutors are reviewing it, the prosecution is making the decision, the court is making the decision, after it's finalized. Now, there's no change in this procedure, there's just one acceleration, and that's really needed. Look, there's a lot of work going on in Turkey right now; it's getting budgeted, it's getting planned, it's getting done, it's getting done, but it's going to administrative justice, the investments can't be done on time, it's not over. In terms of society, there are a lot of deprivations for the country. There's trouble. For example, it's been privatized in the past. The people who bought this place on privatisation invested in it, spent more money on privatisation than they did. Between that, five years, six years, seven years, eight years, there are examples like that now -- and the Court decides to cancel the privatisation. What are we gonna do? I mean, whoever bought it invested a lot. Now, we have to cancel this procedure. If you cancel, the burden on the government goes to a different point, and if you don't, there's a court order. On the other hand, these people are going to sue for compensation, they have a lot of damage, they're going to make it up to the government. If the trial had ended at the time, then none of these injustices or these deprivations would have been revealed, and these proceedings would not have come to this. Currently in Turkey, unfortunately, there are cases in which we have not been able to carry out the court's decision legally and in effect, and the courts have decided to call it off. When you have fulfilled your decision, the damage to Turkey is increasing; when you fail, there is a court order, which is another matter. For him, for us, it's essential that these processes work well and end in time. The immediate trial will miss judicial control, which will lead to rapid judicial control, because when it is urgent, both the administration court and the State Court will immediately review and decide what it is dealing with, preventing deprivations. They're being tendered, someone's objecting, everyone's waiting for the process to be done, they're making a decision to stop the execution, and that's where the business is; the money's there, everything's there, we're waiting, a year, two years, it's not over. Then what? Aren't we going to build the airport? Aren't we going to build the high-speed train? Isn't this going to work? He'll walk. Then we say that he should make a judgment check, but make these matters of the country's interest urgent. Otherwise, let's not miss judgment, let's do corruption and never cover it up. If there's corruption, that's where the criminal law will come in. The other is a matter of violations. If that's true, if there's anything against the law, it should be decided on time. What we're doing here is protecting the rights of our citizens. In fact, it protects the right of the plaintiff, and by taking the decision early, he will have the opportunity to get that right, and perhaps his expectation will go away. There's a situation that protects everyone's rights, and I'd like to make it very clear that there's nothing that's escaped, migrated, abducted, or dented. Mr. Yilmaz said, "Is there going to be a comeback on the matter of the voting union?" We don't have that kind of comeback on our agenda right now. We'll see about that in the future, whether it's possible or not.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0151par0246	There should be, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0150par0247	...but I'll tell you it's not right now.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0151par0248	The judge is the only one who's taking the decision not to prosecute.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0150par0249	On the other hand, Mr. Original asked a question. Yeah, well, I'm sorry, actually. I like you guys, so I don't want to talk about...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0152par0251	No, you misunderstand.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0150par0252	Not at all...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0152par0253	Mr. Secretary, your brother...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0150par0254	Look, look, I'm sorry you brought this up.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0152par0255	No, no...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0150par0256	My brother has a law degree. During February 28th, he took the exam at that time, the judge has won the DA's exam, and he's in the profession today. So I'd be very sorry if you could bring my brother's work to a point where it's as if there's been some kind of pull.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0152par0257	No, no, Mr. Secretary, you misunderstand.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0150par0258	I'll tell you something else.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0152par0259	I'm saying it wasn't fair.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0150par0260	If you'll excuse me, I'll answer. My brother is a very hardworking, intelligent, successful person, and his life is in the middle. When I became Minister, I took the assignment myself. Why did I take it? I've explained this before. Now, when I became Minister, when I gave my brother an active assignment, I'm sure this time, Mr. Secretary, why did you make your brother the general manager? When I became Minister, I took my brother on a passive mission. You know, in the Ministry of Justice, a high counseling mission is basically a sleigh mission, and everyone knows it. I just let my brother slide, so that I could do the right thing, because it wasn't ethical. I'm sorry to hear that I'm being criticized for being kind to your brother, but I'd like to express it.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0152par0262	You misunderstand, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0150par0263	My brother -- look, I tell you, I'm proud of him -- is someone who deserves bigger assignments.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0153par0264	You've got it all wrong.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0150par0265	I'm afraid his brother's the Minister, so he can't be on duty, I'll tell you that. It's his destiny, I'd like to express it.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0154par0266	You resign, he comes here!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0150par0267	At the ministry, of course, we can make some administrative savings, every ministry. We do these savings under the law, and from now on, we will, of course, if necessary. I don't have the numbers right now, so I'll also forward the numbers to you because I don't have the number right now, so I don't want to say the wrong thing. So far, we've closed 236 prisons during our governments. A friend of mine asked me, but about the prisons that are closing right now...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0155par0270	Not a congressman, Ali Sarıbaş.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0150par0271	The number of prisons that will be opened in our time...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0155par0273	Minister, there are no answers to your questions, so you probably didn't listen!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0150par0274	This year, the number of prisons that are now under construction is 48.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0156par0275	Yes, Mr. Secretary, please collect the answers.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0150par0276	We've closed the prisons, and we're doing them in more central places, where people can reach them. 48 prisons will be opened this year, but we closed 236 prisons during our administrations. I'll answer the other questions in writing, and I'm out of time.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0157par0279	They're lying on top of each other.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0158par0280	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0159par0281	Mr. President, I need to make a correction.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0158par0282	Please, Mr. Original...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0159par0283	No, I'll make a correction.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit04spe0158par0284	No. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0158par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 97th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0160par0002	Sir, there are no AKP group presidents. How do we do the debate?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0158par0003	That's right.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0161par0004	Oh, there's a de facto vice president over there!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0158par0005	Mr. Dibek, you have a request to be joined on the department, so I'll give you my last word.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0162par0006	Okay.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0158par0007	Suleiman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, has asked for a speech on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0163par0010	I'll greet the empty desks now!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0158par0011	You can state on the stand, sir, that the group doesn't have vice presidents. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0163par0013	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I truly salute three or five highly valued congressmen in the ranks of the Justice and Development Party. Really, we're negotiating a very important issue, but unfortunately, we don't know who to negotiate with because the AKP ranks are empty. I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on the first part of the legal arrangement called the fifth judicial package. The AKP's hands do not come out of the judgment again. He continues his political policy, which he puts on trial, which he makes laws from parliament for decisions he doesn't like, which is that he nullifies court decisions and builds on the judiciary. The AKP wants to adopt laws both the Prime Minister and its environment and its policy desperately needed before the Parliament closes, without the presidential elections. Judgement must have been a mess in the AKP era. What, where, how it's arranged, even lawyers complain about it, even lawyers complain about it. New ways of judgment are opening, closing, going to new organizations, being removed, love for those who can solve! Indeed, the justice system needs to be re-examined. The daily needs of Turkish Penal Code, criminal law such as the Penal Code, need to be rewritten and the justice system must be redesigned, while law and courts are being reduced to holes in legal regulations for their son, ministers and AKP people. About the painting that came out, people actually gave me a report card of power. In the nation's most trusted institutions, the judiciary remains behind by 28 per cent. People don't trust their courts because the AKP plays with the judiciary like children playing with their toys so often that it's the architect of the issues it complains about today. We're dealing with a power that interprets justice as it suits you. The prime minister, ministers, and their sons, the AKP does not even recognise court decisions, and can give instructions to the legal arm, saying, "Do not follow the instructions of prosecutors and judges." While the cries of the parents whom the PKK has kidnapped in Diyarbakır have risen to the sky, the Prime Minister is taking a stand there that can only be seen in tribal states, and asking for a party to bring the children of these mothers from the mountain. Why? What if the alliance between God preserves, AKP and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in advance of the presidential election is damaged or broken? That's why Erdogan, the beggar, almost begs. Don't listen to him say plan B and C. If you don't bring the kids, I'll never look at you again. Didn't Erdogan, who prescribed prescriptions for the children of our Kurdish mothers, make laws for his own son overnight? Where's justice, Justice and Development? What can you give me if you're full of justice? Dear lawmakers, AKP has no interest in resolving issues in the judiciary, creating a faster and fairer judiciary. Is there a party group in the House that can say no to such a great purpose, to the establishment of justice, which is all done behind the bush, from the qualities of the Creator? This arrangement opens the way for the administrative judiciary. In 2004, you made an arrangement in the judicial court for this purpose. Big buildings have been bought or built. Of course, that's the work of the AKP contractors, so let's get things done. Then what happened? Then, it couldn't be implemented because there are challenges, there are problems such as the emergence of decisions that will lead to regional differences, and the fact that exploration takes a long time. Doesn't the AKP know that? Of course he does. His goal is not to ensure justice through the constitution, but to ensure the development of those who hire buildings by contracting them or buying buildings from their followers. It's not the Tulip Age, it's the tender age. The judicial court envisioned the same reasons: reducing the workload. Whatever arrangement the AKP has made by saying this has increased the workload of the judiciary and become inextricable. We're taking down the district administration courts and bringing in the litigation courts. They're calling it. Ha Ali Veli, huh Veli Ali, what are you going to fix by changing your name? You think people are that naive? The goal is to reverse the clock for decisions you don't like, to make it visible again. You don't think that's known? Another structural change is to remove the judicial courts and hand over their duties to the criminal courts. Meanwhile, a limited number of judicial courts are being created for protection measures, so let's not all give protection measures, and let me control this area with a limited number of judges, under the guise of enforcing it. So, what happens when you remove the court of justice, so what happens when you take the files from here and put them here? You're going to strangle the criminal courts with the number of files? I think you're thinking about mass destruction by appointing prosecutors, as you call them from the parallel structure. With the 10th article of the bill, you bring a quick trial. You brought this arrangement earlier in the State Code Bill, but you took it off the bill because you were worried it might lead to unjust practices and loss of rights. Now, what's changed and you're bringing this up again? Have you decided to rescind the law state you've already committed? In what areas do you foresee immediate judgment? Areas such as publicisation, privatisation, tourism incentives, sales, allocations, rentals, such as places where the AKP is an expert. I'll win, I'll win, I'll win now. You've done well. Quick decision isn't always the right decision. It is neither in the human system nor in the divine system that the citizen's rights of the law are so pressing. With this decision, I will make the administration work fast and take rapid precautions. If you say so, the way it works is that the administration does its operations in time and correctly in time, not leave people vulnerable to natural disasters by acting with the Rant Sai. Don't do your job right, but when Basra's devastated, I'll be quick. Come out, it's tragic. There's no way a government with a rule of law could possibly be so crippled. You're playing the judge with this arrangement. Aren't you the one who arranged for 130 people to be appointed overnight two or three years ago? What's the matter, it's not up to you? The painting that came out, did it touch you, too? We said, "Don't do it. Don't do it." The work department of the agencies is being left to the Grand General Assembly, the Supreme Court boards and the Secretary General's office are being reorganised. Don't you see that the daily, sterile, political window view of the high judgment will only increase the problem? Let our affairs at the Supreme Court be resolved by the flood after us. Let me stay in power today, but no matter what country tomorrow. Dear Regents, as the National Party of Action, we will express these rightful criticisms because it is the nature of our promise to the nation. We also support some of the provisions of these arrangements. Qualified thefts, violence and sexual crimes against women and children, the manufacture of drugs, trafficking, drug use crimes, cannabis planting in order to obtain cannabis, several of them. These crimes fuel social violence, disturbing peace, and highly reactive crimes at a public level, of course, need to increase their punishment. Because it's the constitutional duty of the state to provide and protect the body and the mental health of all individuals, especially women and children. In 2005, some measures were created by the amendment to the Turkish Penal Code, but we can't say that you did it successfully in your nine-year application. Just making the law, increasing the sentence, isn't enough to fight crime. Fighting crime requires the struggle of society, it needs to contain elements such as education, employment, and healthy dialogues with relevant segments. It's not with an attitude that scolds everyone, wags their fingers to show everyone, declares hostility to different opinions. In this bill, we consider the nationalist movement party to be appropriate for society's interests. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that we support certain substances, and, apart from that, we oppose this bill as an understanding, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0164par0031	Thank you. Erol Dora, Mardin MP who has asked for the People's Democratic Party Group to speak on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0165par0034	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on the first part of the First Section of the Law on the Amendment to the Turkish Penal Code 592 rows and some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. In the first part of the bill, as well as arrangements for the working procedures of the district administrative courts, a remarkable arrangement is sentenced to four years and twelve years in prison for planting cannabis in order to obtain a cure by changing the Fifth Article of Article 23 of the Law on Drug Matters, 2313. He who sows cannabis in order to obtain the cannabis he needs for his own use is sentenced from one year to three years in prison." In its form, it is foreseen an increase in punishment against those who produce drugs. Dear lawmakers, it is imperative that only increased sentences or aggravated criminal charges in the fight against crime are not sufficient solutions. Likewise, a punishment system based solely on a threat of punishment is not enough because the threat of punishment is only a function that strengthens the inclinations of guilt especially in young people. In addition to the socioeconomic disadvantages, such as unemployment and poverty, which are effective in creating a crime here, it should be our priority to ponder and take precautions on the issues of the neoliberal, capitalist economy and its life, rhetoric, thinking, and behavior, which have largely led to a short way of being rich, insensitivity to human health, and in the way of making money. The goal of Turkey's drug strategies should be to reduce the damage that drug use and the damage that drugs can do to those who use it and those who use it in communities. We agree that the production and use of drugs are a multi-directional and complex phenomenon. However, any attempt to strengthen the influence of policies in this area, each legislation arrangement, must anticipate a co-directional, balanced, and, most importantly, qualified results with the whole structure of the issue. The evaluation of the drug bill to society and deep work on drug-related public expenditures must be done and actively shared with the public. Deliberate lawmakers are obliged to deal with interconnected and more comprehensive approaches to reducing drug supply and reducing drug demand. The participation of the civilian society in drug policy should also be one of its main goals, allowing it to take an active role in drug prevention and information programmes to be created. Precious lawmakers will be seen more clearly when they examine the number and crimes committed by the state's relevant units regarding drug production, consumption and trade, the weaknesses of the state's bodies, the number of children and young prisoners in prisons. The overall goal of drug programmes to be created should help Turkey become a free, safe, and fair country, by putting data on the effects of drug use on a scientific basis and preventing drug use, addiction and drug-related damage. In particular, interactive programmes based on the model of social impact applied in European countries have been seen to be active in schools. In this framework, it is a key requirement that programmes facing students, educators and parents be concentrated and graded in schools in Turkey as well. Local governments are also required to be strengthened and encouraged by their ability and initiative to develop specific precautionary programmes aimed at the production and consumption of drugs. Dear lawmakers, another very prominent topic of regulation in the first part of the bill is the rapid trial of Article 20 of Law 2577, which is envisioned by the amendment to Article 20 of Law 2577. When we look at the list of discrepancies to be carried out in the draft, the tender transactions, the rapid publicisation procedures, the Privatisation Supreme Board decisions, the sales, allocations and rental procedures under the Tourism Act, the decisions made by environmental impact assessment of environmental impacts under the Act of the Council of Ministers in accordance with the Law on the transforming of areas under the Afet Risk Act show itself in the way of public goods and nature's plundering, as well as the attempt to remove them all in the form of public goods and nature. Mr. President, the envisioned regulation on the urgent judicial procedure is clearly in violation of the last joke of Article 90, which regulates the Constitution's freedom of rights, and of Article 36, which states that the international agreements are appropriate. Because the freedom of the individual's rights is a right guaranteed on the basis of both the Constitution and the signed European Convention on Human Rights. At this point, the rapid judicial procedure brought to Article 20 of the Executive Judiciary Act narrows the rights of individuals, as the administrative judiciary changes traditional functioning. We're talking about an identical arrangement, which is what we call a total misdemeanour. For example, its current application has been included in public tenders that constitute violations of the law, rapid publicisation, law enforcement of 6306, environmental impact assessment reports, cancellation cases, privatisation practices, the attempt to be removed from the judicial bond in an effort to end the process of promoting tourism. Business and procedures regarding the Rights of Meetings and Demonstrations Act are not considered urgent, as well as procedures related to the appointment of public officials, the expulsion of students, the grades process and so on. As a result, as we say in examples, this arrangement, which has been prepared and accepted by the Commission, is a clear obstruction of freedom of rights. "The right of a man to live in a quality of freedom, equality and favourable life in an environment that will allow honor and peace," says Mr. President, in the section of the World Environmental and Human Conference of the United Nations, which was collected in Stockholm on June 5, 1972. This principle is a document of the concept of the environment. Therefore, the presumption of the process of quick trial on issues such as self-restraint, specialisation, (e.g., tourism incentives, etc.), etc. reports, and such as the government's democratic and ecology report shows that in the name of nature and public goods will have much more dire consequences in the interest of attracting capital. Dear lawmakers have strayed from the goal of protecting the environment every year, with changes that we think have come under pressure from the CED regulations, investment and energy sector. Every change has driven the investors a little bit further. The changes made after 1997 are evident that the CED Regulations are getting further and further away from the purpose in the Environmental Law. One of the reasons why the current judicial procedure has been passed quickly enough without being discussed in the relevant commissions is because the government's policies, which prevent the CED process from being an obstacle to the investor. This bill aims to push society out of its decision process in terms of the use and methods of public goods and natural wealth. Without an effective social participation and supervision, the concept of "democracy" remains at a level of claim. A society that has no say in the use of its resources can't be expected to be active in other decision-making processes. I stop speaking with these feelings and thoughts, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0166par0052	Thank you. It's Turgut Dibek who wants to speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group and on behalf of himself. So your time has been 15 minutes, Mr. Dibek.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0167par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. I have taken a pledge on the first chapter of the Turkish Penal Code and on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group and on behalf of myself. First of all, I salute you. Dear friends, when we look at the name of the bill, it says that the Turkish Penal Code and some Laws must be changed. Now, I just got a list out of here. Of course, those who follow us will think that there are changes in the Turkish Penal Code. So the main backbone is here, and there are significant changes in this law, along with it, in a number of laws. We might think about our friends or citizens. Of course, we're dealing with a classic AKP concept. Countless bags of laws coming in, judicial packages coming in. And that's actually a bag, a package, maybe a piece of judgment, because there's a change in 15 different laws, not 1-2, but 15 different laws. There's also the penal code, so yes, I'm looking at the penal code, about 14 amendments. If you think the bill is 102 articles, there are 14 articles of the penal code, 10 articles of the penal code, and a number of changes related to the Penal Code, but other than that, there are many changes. Now, I'm here to talk about this law... the changes in chapter one are more of an administrative amendment. I mean, for years, there's always been a lot of criticism in the district and administrative courts, in the district administration courts, in the administrative courts in the local district, in the district, in the administrative courts, and our citizens being victims, and that's what we're talking about here. This, in particular, goes to the State... which means that about 250,000 cases a year have been filed in administrative cases. Most of it, more than 150,000 go to the State somehow. So, the Court can't get out of them, it's too much. Therefore, we must take a new path. Here, they're turning the district administration courts into a court of law, converting the bill. What's he doing? Let's establish interreferencies, let the cases be seen by the district administration courts, which will work as a delegation, by courts that will work in circles, and let very few files go to the State Department; the Court shall serve as a court of justice. For such a reason, these arrangements are in section one. I'm going to go into chapter one, but, I just told you, there are regulations for different laws. I'd like to point out a few of the important parts of them. Of course, we've also seen in this bill that it has a system. It's more the way the bill is reflected in the public, before the bill comes up, Mr. Secretary or the authorities, about sexual immunity, especially sexual violence against minors, our children, which we've experienced in the past, and there's been a similar incident in my science, and unfortunately in the cyclare, we've lost one of our children -- in a crime like this. As I recall in Kars, there was such an incident, and the public was very impressed by the events, and we thought, "Remember, each of us, how can we find a solution?" In those days, there were statements from the Prime Minister, the minister, and even from us as opposition parties. Actually, that's the whole point of the bill. In addition, regulations for fighting drugs, making drugs and raising the fines for drug use, crimes related to theft, theft, and other forms of theft are being made to increase punishments for different types of theft. So, we also see that inside of this -- as I just said -- we've been talking about for years -- these indictments, or these district courts, are being assembled. There are other arrangements, but there's a sense of AKP as well. There are dot shots -- a few items -- classic, personal, or a group of special arrangements. I mean, I have to talk about them, too. Our friends just told me one of these, and it's a quick trial. Remember, our friends, at the end of December, when we were discussing the Court's Law, there was a similar bill, which contained changes in the State Court and some other laws, and there was a quick trial. That's where they took it, that's where they edited it. This is a special arrangement, my friends. When the relevant clause comes in, I'll talk to him, which we have a motion to make. This is definitely an unconstitutional arrangement, which needs to get out of here, but it's a special arrangement, an arrangement for a specific purpose, an arrangement that has nothing to do with the logic of the law, which has nothing to do with the systematicity of the law. Now, an MP friend of ours has made an offer, and the amendment to the Political Party Law has entered into it. When we look at it there, it's an unrealistic member, a fake member... It's none of our business. I mean, in public, there are even a great number of Republican People's Party executives -- including the mayors of our friends -- officials of the ruling party, by the mayors of the county, with unrealistic forms, so without their signatures -- how they got those identities and T.C. The numbers-- we know they're members. It's in the Turkish Penal Code, which corresponds to Article 207, which means he's in charge of fraud in private documents. He was involved in Article 114, as far as I know, in the Law of Political Parties, taking the amount of punishment for that crime. We're talking about a bill that was there from one year to three years -- and here it was in the Commission from one month to three months before our objections -- that dropped the sentence from three months to a year -- that has nothing to do with the law -- that is, we're talking about a bill that we usually increase the sentences -- that AKP put here to save its executives. That's not enough. There's one more item, dear friends. Article 277 of the Turkish Penal Code is an important clause. It's a crime to influence the judge, the expert witness, or any of the other contacts there. Now, the crime against the judge, the judges, the prosecutors, was staged in the law as well as in the preparation process, which we call prosecution, which includes both phases. Now, our friends have made an arrangement in this, and they say that we're taking the investigation phase out of this 207. They actually took it out of the Commission, or rather, it's in the bill. And when we think about who's taking advantage of this place, maybe it's this sloppy... Guys, look, there's a report. Even our president had read this report. When those corruption operations were on the agenda, Izmir Chief Prosecutor Hussein filed a preliminary report. He said that the Undersecretary of Justice -- as well as the undersecretary of Justice -- had called him on the phone, wanted to know about that investigation, had informed him of what it was, but had to close the investigation, he had to insist and insist that the Undersecretary had pressured him on it. A similar incident is the one assigned to İstanbul. After the 25 December operations, I believe the judicial authorities, the prosecutors' arrests, search, whatever, were assigned to İstanbul's Security Director in connection with their decision to call them to testify, and you will not abide by these decisions. Now this arrangement saves those people. Mr. Minister's Undersecretary, İstanbul Security Director, in a similar manner, removes calls to prosecutors during the investigation process, pressurers, influencers from the scope of crime, only prosecution, or influence against judges, as a crime in the Turkish Penal Code. That's a point, not at all, dear friends. There's another incident, the Anti-Trafficking Act. Yeah, there's something weird about it, too. There is also the third article of the Anti-Trafficking Law. The punishment there was systematically three to six years, and they made him our friends from two to five years, the ruling party. Now I've thought about it, so we're increasing the punishment for sexual crimes, drugs, theft, whatever other crimes there are, which is what public opinion, society expects in this way, because that's what common common common sense requires. No matter how right or wrong, it's separate, it's evaluated, from a legal point of view, that's what the lawyers are talking about. But the fight against smuggling... I mean, you're smuggling cars into Turkey, you're putting in luxury cars... and it occurred to me that in the past few days -- it's reflected in the press -- I think in Ankara, we know that about 200 to 300 luxury vehicles have been smuggled into the country, and we know that there have been operations about them. Now, is that an arrangement to save them? Because when it's two years, you know, he's going to get to the probation limit, plus he's going to get to the limit of the suspension of the sentence, and there's a point shot. Now, look, there are some regulations in the context of the law that maybe we won't object. In chapter one, when we look at the setting up of these administrative courts on the basis of these administrative judiciary, and the setting up of regional court courts on the judicial process in the next three months, perhaps it can make both the State and the Supreme Court a position of law, which may reduce their workload. But now I'm looking at power, where they've been so confused for ten years... Dear friends, the law on district court courts came out in 2004, ten years. The AKP has emerged during its reign, Mr. Secretary, your ministry, your power. You were vice president of the group here. You've known about the Supreme Court's workload for ten years -- here, we talk about budget talks every year -- you know the prosecution's workload. I mean, don't you know, then, that 200 thousand cases a year come to the DA, and they're constantly handing over 200,000 files every year? Then don't you know that 75 percent of the cases come to court? You know that. The same goes for the Supreme Court. But you got up ten years later, after the referendum, and you said, "What should we do now? How do we get this Supreme Court?" Before, you had a different idea. You thought we'd bring the court-martials to justice in this area. By reducing the number of 250 to 150, you said, let's take down 100 people -- so that we can kill two birds with one stone in one sense. You brought a bill here, and then you gave it up. After the referendum, you said, let's not take it that way. Let's increase the number of 250. There were 137 additionals, up to 387, and by increasing the number, we would solve the Court's workload. But the main goal was different. Now, sir, let's set up court courts in the district. The same goes for administrative justice. What I'm trying to say is that you're confused. In three months, we will build them. You say. You failed in ten years, Mr. Secretary, you failed in ten years, you passed the law, you repatriated it, you postponed it, you postponed it. Now, what's wrong with that? In many cases -- I'm speaking for chapter one -- administrative jurisdiction, regional court courts. So as a court of law, I'm guessing they'll be around 10 in the country. At the moment, there are 25 district court courts, but when they're scattered in the region, they'll serve as 9 or 10 district law courts -- with apartments in them -- but these are the last words they'll say, folks. Now, for a significant part of the lawsuits against administrative proceedings in the administrative court, the final word will belong to these judges, which will belong to the agencies in the courthouses, but is there any guarantee of that? There is. He can say that, my friends. Yes, there is, and we know the power and authority of HSYK on these judges, once again, when we look at its regulations, which are contrary to the Constitution. In the court, members of the Court are secured. So the D.A. can do that until he retires after he's elected there. It's impossible for anyone to get up on top of it and save any kind of savings, so there's no way that the HSYK is going to assign that State Department member to another position, because the same thing happens there for members of the Supreme Court with the power they took from the Constitution. But these judges, executive judges such as court judges, are completely friends between the two lips of HSYK. Therefore, we will meet with such distress. So we're going to transfer the workload from the DA's office to the district court courts, we're going to change the address -- change the cone -- and we're going to get up again very soon, and we're going to talk about cases piled up in district courthouses, hundreds of thousands of files piled up there, and citizens lost their rights. Mr. Omar Süha Aldan said something very nice when he was talking about the majority of the Commission -- the process is ending -- he said: there are countless, 15 laws within this law. The oldest of the laws we've changed is 10 years old, the other laws are three, two, one year old; there are changes. You've changed the times -- these Supreme Court heads -- you've shortened the times before -- and now you're increasing them again. That's the arrangement you're making. In a very short time, dear friends, again, these shortcomings will come to us. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm going to share with you the opinion of our party on the matter, especially on the important items. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0168par0077	Thank you. The question-answer process will be done. Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0169par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Prisons have an overcrowded rate. I'd like to know if you have any work as the Ministry on lowering the hail. Do you plan to build new prisons? The second question is: there are courts in various parts of our country that are closed because the population is low. In particular, the court in Yeşilyurt district of Tokat Province has closed in time. Are you thinking of reopening it? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0170par0084	Thank you. Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0171par0086	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, we're receiving information that an open prison was scheduled to be built in Aydın. Didim, as you know, is a major tourist area, and its development in tourism is very important. I feel it would not be appropriate for a prison and a large prison to be built in a district that is planned to develop in the field of tourism. I'd like our Ministry to prevent this savings, if possible, in the name of the Enlightenment. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0172par0089	Thank you. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0173par0091	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, it's been published in the press. And since it's reflected, I've actually made it a written question motion, but I haven't heard back yet. Now, we've got lawyers taking this judge's exam, and they can get in there. Now, a lawyer named Halil Horseman has entered this Judicial Judge and Prosecutor's Competition Exam 11 times, and you know his name. He had won each of the written exams 11 times, but at the interview, the friends at work asked strange questions; tell him about his art. They asked him about the ancient city of Santa. And the last time he was here, they said, "This is the 11th time -- and we're not taking you, so why are you so persistent?" Now, why is this friend of ours being eliminated at interviews and clearly not getting you when he's won the written exams 11 times? Why and how was he tested by your friends at the exam commission? Can you explain that?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0174par0095	Thank you. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0175par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the President of the State has visited the Prime Minister the very day after he was elected. I wonder, after Mr. President's visit, if the reason for Mr. President's visit was the solution to the matters of the State Department, what kind of problems have been delivered, what kind of solutions have been answered? Second: If this is a thank-you visit, not a visit in some way, what is the reason for this thank-you visit? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0176par0101	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0177par0103	Mr. Secretary, for the past three years, I've been asking the justice ministers the same question every time a package has been delivered to this House, but I haven't been able to get an answer, or the answers they've given us were the answers that the bureaucrats gave us, that conflicted with the answers we wanted with Information. There's a very old prison in Izmit County. This is in the centre, in the school area, on the right-hand side, in the elementary school, in the secondary school area and within the settlement. Although we've said it over and over again, the Minister of Justice has stated that each time a new one will be made and moved in the past. Today, they also say that when we say or demand without knowledge, it will be done again. First of all, I want you to tell me when this is going to happen. When the prison in Izmit will be moved and removed from the center of the city...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0176par0106	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0178par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, now, when we look at the bill, the district administration and district court courts are being created. I mean, I don't know if I missed it, but what about the files that entered these courts' duties in the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court, they're going to be sent to district courthouses and district administration courts? I think there's something wrong with that. Now, with so many justice deficits -- 148 courthouses were closed, then 102 courthouses were turned; you mentioned the judge's deficit -- will you be able to establish these court courts and administrative courts and district courts within three months? Is there going to be a serious problem with this? Also, if you are to set up, I would like it to be known that we have asked for a district court at the footman's house, and that our building is suitable for the move of our courthouse to the new courthouse. And for your information, I'm bringing this to you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0179par0113	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0180par0115	Mr. President, thank you. My question, Mr. Secretary, is that during your term before this, the court's work became very complicated -- prosecutions, prosecutors' appointments, police appointments -- things became very complicated. We have Saimbeyli, one of the largest, deepest districts of Adana. So it's not digitally large, but it's a big and social district, and you've closed the courthouse. Do you plan to open a new courthouse here? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0181par0118	Thank you. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0182par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you know, there used to be no obvious difference between the Supreme Court members and members of the Supreme Court in terms of financial rights, almost equal wages. But right now, even the Constitutional Court's rapporteurs are getting paid more than the Supreme Court members. Therefore, both members of the Supreme Court and the judge in the first-degree court have had a serious meltdown of prosecutors' financial rights over the past four or five years. Does your Ministry have a study on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0183par0123	Thank you. Mr. Akar, last question...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0184par0125	Mr. Secretary, I've just asked when the prison will be lifted, and yet, the court of justice in Izmit will not be enough, especially in recent years, the fact that there are too many executive files in Kopeli, the establishment of executive courts due to the execution of people has made this court inadequate. Do you plan to build a new court of justice in Kopeli, especially because of increased populations and crime rates, or will we do it every time the AKP MPs say and like it? Did you or did you plan it? I want you to explain that.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0183par0126	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0185par0128	Mr. Reshat has asked if there is any work done on the fullness of the prisons. Of course, the prisons are full right now, and it's pretty high. Of course, we don't want to, it's not good that so many of our citizens -- no matter what -- are in prison, we hope that the number will go down, but it also works to improve the capacity of prisons. There are those who have finished construction in 2014, there are those who will be finished -- we will open up a prison around 43. Of course, it'll ease the capacity, perhaps in terms of field expansion, but the heart wants that we don't have so many people convicted in the process of trial, so there'll be a reduction in that way. And right now, in this law, they're basically serving a fine of justice, and those who didn't pay the fine are being sentenced to prison and they're in jail. We have citizens who are now in prison in this sense. If this law is enforced, they will be released from prison. Because they'll be able to get two hours, a day's fine, a study, or another probationary release, which brings them a new opportunity. Of course, there have already been talks about the closures of the Courts of Saimbeyli. I was in the green country for the weekend, and they kept up the pace at the rally there, and they called it the courthouse. I said, "Maybe Mr. Reşat has arrived at the rally square." I said, "We won't open the address." Because the decision to close the courts is the right decision. We did it because we believed it to be true, and we said there is no need for a court of law here. When we looked at the number of files in Saimbeyli and other places that were closed, there was a savings to close the courthouses. And in the new era, we don't plan to take a step back from that savings. Because saving is the right savings. Is it true that the prison was to be built in Didim?? There was a study on it, about the prison being built in Didim. However, we then examined the matter at the request of MPs and some of the people of Aydın. And we have now removed the work of building the prison for Aydın Didim. We are not doing it.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0186par0131	Has it been abandoned, sir?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0185par0132	We've given up, it's not done, I want you to know that. What Turgut Bey said is about the person who took a test and didn't win 11 times. Of course, there's no way I can give him a clear answer right now. Because you're talking about a special set of dialogues, and I don't have the ability to know that. I've been on this thing of yours, too. I'm going to look into it, and I'm going to ask you...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0187par0134	I asked you in writing. Because it's in the press, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0185par0135	I'll also inform you, I want you to know. Mr. Serindağ, what visit do you mean, his last visit?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0188par0137	No, no. The day after he was elected, the very day after his visit.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0185par0138	I haven't visited the President's Prime Minister, so I have no way of knowing what was said during that visit. The visit of a Chief Public Prosecutor to the country's prime minister is a natural event, which means it's not fair to look under it, but he's had a visit soon.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0188par0139	No, that's not what I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0185par0140	These are the regulations in this bill, which are now incumbent on the adoption of administrative judiciary, which are basically made by the State Department, which we have contributed to. Mr. President has asked for a legal amendment to the administrative court, and he's had a visit in this frame, I know that, but I don't have any information about his first visit, so let me put it this way. The question of Mr. Yilmaz is, what about the district administration courts? There are now 25 district administrative courts that I know of. Of course, some of these 25 district administration courts will be closed. At the moment, within the scope of the works of the State and the Ministry, there will be about 10 district administrative courts, which will decide the application for the indictment, where there will be courts to judge. We don't have a problem with the judge. In particular, we have enough judges and prosecutors present to establish both district court courts and district administration courts, and we've done their calculations. The district administration courts are the most prepared because they have a district court structure, and we're going to make a transition there without making any changes to that structure. Let me put it this way: I mean, it's a decision on where to set up a district administration court. This is a decision made by the HSYK on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice. I mean, it's like the courts are actually coming to life, not like that. In three months, a decision will be made on where the district administration court will be held. Of course, we plan to carry out the bill in November, both in administrative court and in judicial court. Hopefully, if there are no setbacks, the period of litigation will begin in Turkey, such as November, and I'd like to express it here. About the moving of the prison in Deepne County...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0189par0145	Izmit, Mr. Izmit, they said it wrong, I didn't say it deep.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0185par0146	Where?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0189par0147	Izmit's downtown, in the middle of town. Do you have such a project?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0185par0148	We don't have that kind of project right now.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0189par0149	They've been cheating on me in this House for three years, Mr. Secretary, from both your lawmakers and the Ministry of Justice!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0190par0150	Mr. Akar, please...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0185par0151	Look, about the prison right now...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0189par0152	They must be taking advantage of my naivety, they're tricking me here!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0185par0153	Of course, that's Mr. Original Day's question.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0191par0154	Mr. Akar, I'm glad you're naive!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0185par0155	Mr. President... There was a question between the Supreme Court and the members of the Supreme Court... you're right, there's really an unfair photograph there, and the truth is, we're not comfortable with it. In fact, judge and prosecutors' essence...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0191par0158	Mr. Secretary, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0185par0159	As the ministry, I would like to state from here that we have begun a study of the rights of the judiciary, both in the Supreme Court and in the judicial and administrative judiciary. We're planning to make a improvement on these issues.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0192par0160	I mean, you got to do it, they're a lot of victims.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0185par0161	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0193par0162	Thank you. Talks on chapter one are complete.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0194par0164	I want roll call.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit05spe0193par0165	Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit06spe0193par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 97th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 592. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on article 1 that I read and process: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of income to be added after the declaration of the 592-line bill, which is included in the 2nd article of the bill. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Selma River Erol Dora Faysal Sarıyıldız Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 1st Amendment of the current 592 Rows. Article 1. From four years to twelve years, we propose and propose that the declaration of the joke be changed from five years to twelve years. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Haydar Akar Aytuğ Thrower It's the 1st draft of the current 592 rows of law. In addition to Article 2313 of the Law, the person who has planted cannabis is sentenced to 3 to 5 years in prison in order to obtain the cannabis he needs for his own use of the sentence added to Article 2313. We also offer and propose that the timeout for those who act should be changed into non-execution. S. Nevzat Korkmaz Yusef Halaçoğlu Reşat Right Sumer Oral Kemalettin Yilmaz Manisa Afyonkarahisar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit06spe0195par0023	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit06spe0193par0024	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit06spe0196par0025	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit06spe0193par0026	It's Reşat Right, Slap Congressman who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit06spe0197par0029	Mr. President, members of the law, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on Article 1 of the Law Bill 592. I salute the High Council. We have made a motion to increase the penalties for cannabis, which is part of the drug. I believe the High Council will make the best of it. Respected lawmakers, as in the world, in our country, there will be substance abuse and addiction at the beginning of the most important problems in the coming years. Of course, the word "independence" is very broad. I mean, it's obvious that we're going to have a lot of trouble over the next period of time about addiction. Here's the thing: the use of substance in addiction, smoking, alcohol, drugs, but unfortunately our country faces many problems from internet addiction to electronic addiction. However, in the coming days and as of now, Turkey has a serious problem with substance abuse. In the first chapter, I asked the Minister, how many prisoners were there in the prisons? They pronounced about 152,000. Of these 152,000, 27,000 were identified as drug charges, which is not a very small number of ice. So, Turkey, in a very serious sense, faces drugs, substance abuse, and crimes related to them in a very large way. There's got to be some way to take precautions on that. See, in the past period, in the 23rd term, our Parliament established a research commission on substance abuse. The research commission did some very important work, and as a result of the work, it revealed on the last 100 pages what should be done about it? Of course, about that -- about, well, that's the end of the period, and we're coming to the end of this period -- it had to be passed a very comprehensive, broad law. Unfortunately, again, our Parliament, working on the Justice and Development Party's own wishes, has never paid any attention to it. However, I think it's very important, and it's a problem that can happen to any person, any family. And since that's not important, unfortunately, the laws have not been passed, and right now, here we see a chapter about this in Article 1, and we see parts of the third part again. But that's not how it's supposed to be. Because our children, our young people, our families, are in serious trouble about it. See, right now, in our country, in front of all of our schools, especially the major cities, the sale of drugs is almost free. Alcohol, smoking are increasing day by day. Almost, at work, the rate of alcohol use has reached about 20 per cent -- 23.5 per cent in my number -- has increased very rapidly to smoking. Thus, we face a very difficult situation. Of course, it should be said that there's also a drug trade. Drug-related hard work is being done, especially as a TUBIM. The research commission was already recommended to establish a new institution and to keep a close eye on it in every way, in this way, in every way, but unfortunately, again, the AKP's government has not succeeded. But here's the thing: right now many organizations, particularly terrorist organizations, benefit from the drug trade. See, in the East and Southeast Region, the terrorist organisation earns over $20 billion in drug trafficking. Of course, right now, Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay says, here is the process of the peace process, about my angles. Well, then, if the process is going on, and everything's going well, respected lawmakers, why are the children being kidnapped, or why are the roads being blocked? In fact, one of the roads, the road to Diyarbakir-Bingöl, has been closed for 11 or 12 days. When one thinks about it, how does the expansion continue...? Here we are, all of us, obliged to evaluate it together. Of course, we're coming from here, especially about the substance, you know, the terrorist organization is getting a lot of resources from the drug trade. I wonder if, you know, in getting that source, those roads would be blocked off, the state would be pulled out of there, the state would be destroyed, the state would be broken, would that support the drug trade? That comes to mind. After all, I think that these questions should be answered, especially by the government, especially by the government, because Turkey is our country, and this beautiful country is our country, children, families are our children, and if a pin is put on their finger, I greet them with respect, saying how our heart burns and bleeds, we all live together.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit06spe0198par0042	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit06spe0199par0043	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a request for a roll call, and I'll carry it out first. Mr. Altay, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Kart, Mr. Akar, Mr. Kören, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Acar, Mr. Öz, Mr. Öz, Mr. Özgündün, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Demir, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Güler, Mr. Tanal and Mr. Özgüssel. Yeah, I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0199par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 97th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The meeting was not enough in the roll call before the first article was voted on by Khakat MP Reşat Right and his friends. Now I'm going to do the roll call again. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. We will continue negotiations with Bill 592. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 1st Amendment of the current 592 Rows. Article 1. From four years to twelve years, we propose and propose that the declaration of the joke be changed from five years to twelve years. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0200par0019	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0199par0020	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0201par0021	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0199par0022	It's Aytug Horseman, Mersin MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0202par0025	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding the 1st amendment of the Turkish Penal Code, 592 rows, and the amendment to some Laws. I salute lawmakers who do not use the law in their own interest and who do not vote yes for special changes. My dear friends, what does the (1)th joke of article 1 say? The person who sows cannabis in order to obtain it says that he will be sentenced to four to twelve years in prison. What do we say, what do we suggest? We say five to twelve years for those who plant cannabis. Well, is that enough to solve the problem? It's not enough. No one commits a crime by looking at whether it's four years or five years. Now, I look back at the government, and the Minister of Justice doesn't sit during the government, and I'm very pleased that the Minister of Youth and Sports is there as well.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0203par0028	There, there.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0202par0029	Our Minister of Justice is here, and I'd appreciate it if he'd listen, but with his applications, we couldn't solve it. I'm also glad the Minister is here, since most of the problem concerns the young. Now, let's see why the citizen is planting cannabis. I mean, four years, five years in prison, that's not deterrent. Why are these people planting cannabis, you gotta look at this. There's an answer: the other products he planted don't pay. With your agricultural policies, you force people to plant cannabis. You're gonna have to look after yourselves.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0204par0031	For God's sake! Is that even a thing? He's doing it for his own needs.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0205par0032	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0202par0033	We can prevent crime by training, not by increasing punishment.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0206par0034	Heroin makes money, heroin.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0202par0035	Now, my dear friends, don't jump out of your seats; I'll give you the numbers in a moment, then you'll be ashamed. We can reduce his drug demand by treatment, of course. Now look, my jumping friends, I'm going to give you some numbers, and these are the figures of the ministers of your government.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0207par0037	Those numbers are your numbers, yours.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0202par0038	Look, in 2005, 17.211 people resorted to the AMAMEM (AMATEM), the Centre for Alcohol and Drug Addiction, roughly 17,000 people, to get rid of this poison. Look, 3,777 of these 17,000 people are children, Minister, 3.777. These numbers don't belong to me. They belong to you. According to the Health Ministry's data, let's look at drug users and people coming to treatment: 2011, number 174.229. Look, about 175,000 people are applying to the centers to be treated in bed or standing. A year later, in 2012, the number rose to 227,298. My dear friends, because of your policies, there are 53,069 new cases in one year who are applying to AMATEM, saying, "I want to get rid of this poison." We're looking at AMAMEM, AMATEM data, and people who are using marijuana or using morphine and morphine are trying to get rid of it. Look, it's time for you to jump, and it says AMATEM: "The average age of the patients applying to me has fallen below 15. I'm not saying that, but AMATEM says that. You take four years here to five years, sir, take him to him; you can't prevent it from happening. If the average age of people who use drugs in my country and apply to the centers has fallen below 15, now you have to jump. Mr. Attorney General, look, I'll give you a data check if you're interested. You're saying that there are 26,209 drug traffickers among the crimes of some 145 thousand people who were in prisons and detention centers, and you think you're going to stop them when you increase them a year? More importantly, 171 children under the age of 18, 171 children in prison for drug trafficking. Solve these, Mr. Ministers, Mr. AKP Government deal with this, otherwise you will not be able to solve this problem. I went to visit the children in prisons, and I was embarrassed; most of them are in prison for drugs. If we solve this, you'll be useful, or you'll be useless. Good evening.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0208par0045	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of income to be added after the declaration of the 592-line bill, which is included in the 2nd article of the bill. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0209par0052	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0208par0053	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0210par0054	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0208par0055	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0211par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion on the first amendment of the underlying bill, and I salute your delegation. It's important. We care deeply about all judicial regulations in terms of Turkey's democratisation and the law in Turkey, the justice system. Article 1 concerning substance abuse is also very important. But about these issues, as a group, as a party group, we will express our views from this platform. I'd like to draw your attention to something more specific. Turkey's law is a specific event that reveals the state of justice. We've spoken before on this council bench. The Minister of Justice isn't here right now, the Minister of Sports is here, but we're not talking about sports here, Mr. Secretary. We'd appreciate it if you'd write this down and pass it on to the Attorney General. The incident we're talking about is about the tragedy that the Turkish justice system has brought upon an 18-year-old girl. At the age of 18, a student named Gülsum Koç, who prepared for college, was sentenced to life in prison over an indictment for the screening of a police car in Bingol. So far we've voiced the indictments from this bench, over and over again, newspapers, media pages. There is a two - page indictment; page 1 is all technical information, and the evidence of the charge on page 2 is based on one confidential witness. There is a man named Hunter, who is a confidential witness. Gülsum says he was not present at the scene at the time of the attack; Gülsum says he did not see Kokop. Gülsum never identified Kokom when he was carrying a gun; he compared a young lady there to Gülsum Kokop. And Gülsum Coach is on trial for life in prison. The appeal to the Supreme Court today -- we just got word -- was not accepted by the Supreme Court and the decision was approved. Is that even a painting, people? I don't know if there's a secret witness or not. There is not a single witness who has seen the Hunter, or has ever faced him. In the indictment, the confidential witness, Hunter, did not make a single statement that he had seen this student at the time of the attack. There's only one crime, Gülsum Kokol: At the time when I was elected, during our election work, friends who came to our election office, who had gone away. And the student who came to this election office was framed by the police forces there, served a false indictment with covert witnesses, and his life was turned into chaos by prosecutors with such punishment. Now, we'd like to ask: are these cops, these 18-year-olds who put a student in prison for life in college, that's what your Prime Minister has stated, that he's accused of espionage, espionage, that he's running around the corridors of justice? Because we don't see conscience in them, we don't see humanity in them. We can't even call people who ruin an 18-year-old's life without any concrete evidence, false indictments, human beings. If it's close to you, but it's a disaster, if they're still making those decisions based on that parallel structure, it's a disaster. The Justice Department needs to get a handle on this right away. We have repeatedly warned the former Minister of Justice about this. Look, I just got off the phone with this student's mother, who is currently struggling to live in the hospital. What kind of a disgrace is that? Do you know what he's done to get rid of this shame mug shot? A few weeks ago, he sent the family a fine of $20,000 for his name in an indictment against the police car. I mean, it's a disgrace, that's not gonna happen. If you're going to bring in judicial packages on the judicial system in Turkey... look, you brought in this secret witness system, the AKP brought in. Eliminate this secret witness establishment at once... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and bring to the agenda of many victims I've given a single specific example. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0212par0068	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... The motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 2 that I'm reading: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose that the 2nd article of the 592-line bill be added and proposed that the statement be added instead of the statement, which is also included in the application for the aa/a/b/b/bents. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Selma River Erol Dora Faysal Sarıyıldız Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 2nd Amendment of the current 592 Rows. Article A. The addition of the declaration of the Court of Justice section to be added to its joke, B. We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of the Tax Judiciary Department to the joke after the tariff of................ after....... Turgut Dibek Ali Özgündüz Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Haydar Akar Congressmans, the motion I'm going to now read is a motion against the Constitution, so I'll have it read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2 of the 592 Numbered Legislature. We propose and propose that his clause be removed from the bill because it is unconstitutional. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Reşat Right Sumer Oral Ali Uzırmak Murat Başesgioğlu Does the Commission agree with the amendment motion?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0213par0092	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0212par0093	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0214par0094	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0212par0095	Faruk Bal asking for a word on the motion is the MP of Konya. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0215par0098	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, I couldn't count how many judicial packages this was, but as soon as I started working on it, they called it the fifth judicial package. That's where I started, the fifth judicial package. However, the previous two packages have been processed as the fifth judicial package. So there's a surprise here. There's a saying in my hometown that when he was surprised, he called his wife... The lady says she'll object, you bastard, you call me a brother-in-law. Then who is my sister-in-law? It is reflected in the judicial packages as an expression of surprise. It's not new, it's very old. The story began in 2004. To change the penal code, to change the penal code, to change the penal code, to change the tens of articles of the changing Penal Code, before the Law of Punishment takes effect; to change tens of articles after the change of the Penal Code and the enforcement of the Penal Code; to replace them in 2007, there are a great number of members of the Court of Justice. Let's do a court of law by saying, "Let's do a court of law to reduce the number of members to 150, lower the number of apartments; the same intentions for the State, but the same intentions for the Court, which, in 2011, increased the number of members of the State and the Supreme Court by 1.5 times and the Supreme Court by changing the constitutional status of the Supreme Court; the legal provisions that made the world's most obese court into the world's most obese state; the issue of the Constitutional state in 2010 is worth the election. The issue, which you say, has been called the politicalisation of the judiciary, and then has been carried out after the constitutional situation. Now, in this surprise, I ask the Justice and Development Party who are doing these things: if the problem you define within the judiciary is serious enough to fight the will of the Republic of Turkey, you have the legal, criminal and political responsibility that created this problem. Instead of carrying out this responsibility, you've come before the Supreme Assembly with a rebuttal court that's going to cause other problems, and that's going to cause other problems. I know and understand that your intentions are not pure. I seek answers to the question, why is it not pure? I've been able to find two answers, one of them: one party at a time, one man at a time, while you're heading towards the administration of a freaking presidential system. You're creating judicial bodies for states within the presidential system, and that's the arrangement you're bringing in. The other is politicizing the judiciary in a different color to save the tail stuck in the door on December 17th and 25th, creating the judiciary in a different color. That is the essence of this bill. Thus, it violates the Constitution's unitary state structure, the nation's integrity, the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, the neutrality of the judge and the principle of equality. With these thoughts, I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0216par0104	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0217par0106	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit07spe0216par0107	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit08spe0216par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 97th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the 2nd article was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We will continue negotiations with Bill 592. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 2nd Amendment of the current 592 Rows. Article A. The addition of the declaration of the Court of Justice section to be added to its joke, B. We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of the Tax Judiciary Department to the joke after the tariff of................ after....... Omar Suha Aldan (Mugla) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit08spe0218par0011	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit08spe0216par0012	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit08spe0219par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit08spe0216par0014	Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP who asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit08spe0220par0017	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin my remarks, I salute the General Assembly. Now, my dear friends, the thing is, they asked the camel, "Why is your neck crooked?" He said, "My neck is straight." Now, what's right about this law? In the 1st article, adopted by the ruling party group's votes, you're looking at a one-to-one-year sentence to the person who planted marijuana for his own needs. However, in the 191st article of the Turkish Penal Code, which regulates the same issue, the judge cannot punish the person who is possession of drugs or marijuana, but will exercise a controlled freedom sentence. So, here you are bringing in another regulation that violates the criminal code system. Something interesting will come up. I mean, you're looking at three years of punishment if he gets caught, but if he goes from one year to one year, and he takes a kilo of pot, and he's used it before, if he's a drug user, he's doing a controlled release sentence against this person, if it's obvious that he's a drug user. So, you're disrupting the system, so when you're doing something, you're bringing in a conflicting, counter-judgmental substance. In the same way, look, what's in this bill again? Dear friends, you are changing Article 114 of the Law on Political Parties 2820 with Article 40. Here's the fine on my fake membership writing, which one person doesn't know about being a member of another political party, from one year to three years in prison, and you reduce it from three months to one year with your friends' bid. It was a month to three months in its original form, making it a prepaid crime, where there's another contradiction. What is that contradiction? Now the form of a member of the political parties is a special document, in fact, a special document, which, in my opinion, is even official. Now, if he were to forge a private document, a person, if he were to take your identity, get a cell phone, sign the GSM operator's subscription agreement, he would be sentenced to one year in prison from the 207th article of the Turkish Penal Code to three years in prison, but if he were to take your identity, if he could make you a member of a party that you didn't want, against the base floor, or if he could make you a member of the mayor, he would be grounded from three months to a year. Now there's such a contradiction, so you're disrupting the system. Dear friends, if he arranges a simple note for you, the man will require two to five years, but you're a member of the National Party -- if he joins another party, consider the trouble this person will cause -- sir, he'll be sentenced to three months in prison. I mean, that doesn't make sense. It was later discovered that many of our mayors, our county manager, were members of your party, AKP. Why did they do that? Sir, here's the Performance criteria, we're going to reward the working organization. They went out after a decision made by your party's organization. They registered members here and there in the market, on the street, on the street, on the street. As I was saying, executives of our party, county managers, county heads, councilmen, members. Now you're doing it to save them. In fact, those who commit such immorality need to be punished more. Why would you do that, brother? If he doesn't accept the ideology of my party, if he doesn't accept his schedule, his charter, why are you a member of me? So number doesn't matter, quantity doesn't matter, quality matters, don't worry about numbers. So I think this arrangement of yours to save some party members is actually a reward for fraud. Why am I saying this? It's also against the Turkish Penal Code, which is against the general system. In general, it is contrary to Article 207, which regulates the laws of forgery of the penal code in the private document. So, friends, really, if we're going to do anything, let's look at it as a lawyer, not another debate, let's do it together, let's take our country further. But in this way, when you do it with some different interviews and arguments, I say, "Unfortunately, the feet are moving," and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit08spe0221par0026	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit08spe0220par0027	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit08spe0221par0028	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose that the 2nd article of the 592-line bill be added and proposed that the statement be added instead of the statement, which is also included in the application for the aa/a/b/b/bents. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit08spe0222par0035	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit08spe0221par0036	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit08spe0223par0037	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit08spe0221par0038	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit08spe0224par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a promise on the motion we made on the 2nd Amendment. I salute you all again. The need for a radical reform on judicial disgraces, which I've just given a specific example, is likely to be accepted by everyone. In particular, this secret witness establishment needs to be removed as soon as possible. They said there were certain preparations in the previous talks with the Minister of Justice, but unfortunately, we see no such arrangement in the number of packages -- the fifth package -- which we've come across again. Dear lawmakers, we're going to work late at night, but we're not doing anything except killing time with technical things that don't stand up in society, don't touch the public, don't touch the real problems of the country. Look, as of this hour, this Assembly had to make arrangements for the solution and democratisation of the fundamental issues in Turkey. We've been talking about a process for a long time; we're talking about a process of solutions, a process of peace. For over a year and a half, there has been no loss of life due to mutual conflict. As a politician, I think it's the best job I can do in politics, the most moral job I can do. If I have contributed to a study that has prevented thousands of young people from losing their lives, let alone thousands of young people, I would consider it a great honor on my part. We all have to do this, we all have to do the legislature's responsibility for bringing the laws that support this process here and securing lasting peace as soon as possible. Are we doing this? We're not. We're talking about a process, there's still no legal basis for that process, no legal status. You've given assurances to the members of the MIT Act that you recently brought in, but tomorrow, when a prosecutor asks for it, or there's a government change, as your Prime Minister said, when it went to plan B and C, he didn't make the process out of being a criminal element. What kind of a thing is that, guys? If we're arguing at this time, we need to lift the Anti-Terror Law. You've been exploiting them for days, the issue of these children going to the mountain, the law against terrorism that sends children to the mountain. We call this Anti-Terror Law the Law that sends young people to the mountain. Why don't we put this away? Why don't you put that away? Remove the Anti-Terror Law, then see if the direction of young people becomes a mountain or democratic politics. Is there any understanding that's afraid of democratization? Is there any understanding that is afraid to remove obstacles to democratic politics, to remove obstacles to thought, expression, freedom of organisation, to remove obstacles to freedom of the press? Is there such a sense of power, my friends? Look, the process is now between the Prime Minister's two lips because of these issues that we've stated here. He goes to plan B when he wants to, he goes to plan C when he wants to. Plan B, plan C -- let's be clear -- will bring a disaster that will bring a civil war to Turkey, and will carry it to Turkey. You'll collapse in the first place, so let's be clear. It's not a piece of cake, friends, don't be afraid to defend peace, don't be afraid. Study the examples of the world, all of the world's examples of peace workers make the law of peace, make the law of peace, sign the document, come and explain it to your people, and go on history. With open heart, you have to build a bold process in a transparent way. Let's just leave all these arrangements, there are 650 chronic patients in prisons from the start of this process, 150 of them with severe patients who could lose their lives at any time; leukemia, lung cancer, myelodysplastic syndrome, people who are not equipped to live; you didn't go out with courage and make a legal arrangement for the release and treatment rights of these sick people. Now, there's an arrangement in this package again, but it's completely inadequate, completely incomplete, not beyond an arrangement that continues to kill people in prison conditions. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit08spe0225par0048	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit08spe0226par0049	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit08spe0225par0050	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit09spe0225par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 9th Session of the 97th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the second article, there was not enough of a decision to vote on the motion of Bingal MP İdris Baluken and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We will continue negotiations with Bill 592. The commission and the government are in place. I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the third article, which I'm having read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration be added as a structure after the declaration of the district administrative courts, which is included in Article 2 of the 592-line bill. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Selma River Erol Dora Faysal Sarıyıldız Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 3rd Amendment of the current 592 rows. Article 2. We offer and propose that the State Department's declaration of justice be replaced by the adjudication of the district administrative court. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Attila Kart Haydar Akar Congressmans, the motion I'm going to now read is a motion against the Constitution. I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 rows of the Numbered Legislature 3. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text because it is unconstitutional. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Sumer Oral Ali Longırmak Murat Basesgioğlu Reşat Right Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit09spe0227par0030	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit09spe0225par0031	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit09spe0228par0032	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit09spe0225par0033	Faruk Bal asking for a word on the motion is the MP of Konya. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit09spe0229par0036	Mr. President, the government has submitted this bill on the grounds that there will be a solution to the issues of the judiciary, along with the establishment of law enforcement courts. The solution is alleged to be related to the violation of the right to a fair trial, to abbreviated the length of the long trial period, to absolving the workload in the Supreme Court, and there is another claim that the European Convention on Human Rights is in accordance with the 7th Protocol. They are nothing but words and words. There is already a first-degree court in the Turkish judicial system and a Supreme Court. The citizen who turned into a ping-pong ball between the two of them has no way of getting a fair trial. A third court level is put between the court and the court, which is extremely long in the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court. This will increase the workload of the current judiciary, increasing the length of the current trial. And then when we add individual application rights to the Constitutional Court, we'll be at an impassable point. This is a state of complete surprise. This is no different from the confused man who called his wife a minister. It's obvious that these are the kind of problems Turkey and our lawyers will face, along with the law enforcement courts. I'd like to present to you the new challenges in matter. One of them is that the burden of judgment is a great expense on people, depending on the current situation. However, when the indictment courts arrive, the citizen will have to take his witness there, who will go to trial in the districts and cities where they are located. It's an expense. A citizen who can handle half a day in one county by going to court this time will cause a waste of time when he goes further away, and that time and expense will be a heavy burden on the citizens. At the same time, it appears to be another cause that extends the trial, but what's important is that the number of judges and prosecutors who are now in the first class, around 13,200, is about half the size. If the court of law is established, there will be at least a thousand court-martials in the court of justice under the name of the judge-secures, and on the other hand, there will be at least 500 first-class judges needed in the district administration courts established in the administrative judiciary. Where are we going to get these? The solution you've come up with is enough to lead you, indeed, into confusion. Instead, you eliminate the trial in the court of justice -- in a strange way, as a product of your habit of shooting three or five birds with one stone -- the name of the judicial courts will remain intact -- instead, the judicial courts of the peace will be limited, and you will appoint judges who will be able to answer when the work that touches the zulfuyah falls. In this way, by considering major corruption across Turkey, particularly your lessons from December 17th-25th corruption, you will be able to provide a controlled judicial audit, a control mechanism for judges, reduce the judicial courts, and assign such missions to a limited number of judicial judges, and then assess those who are discharged from there as well as in law courts or other courts. My dear friends, this is a law which is all crooked like camels. Thus, the Constitution violates the relevant principles, the principles, which we have expressed in our proposal. Therefore, this contradiction must now be discussed here.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit09spe0230par0043	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 3rd Amendment of the current 592 rows. Article 2. We offer and propose that the State Department's declaration of justice be replaced by the adjudication of the district administrative court. Haydar Akar and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit09spe0231par0050	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit09spe0230par0051	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit09spe0232par0052	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit09spe0230par0053	Atilla Kart asking for a quote on the motion is the Consolidated MP. Here you go, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit09spe0233par0056	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on the 3rd Amendment. I salute the General Assembly. My dear friends, the Minister of Justice has an answer to the question asked by our Servant Congressman in the QA department. Other than that, there's a statement he made to the public again a week ago. On the basis of this answer and explanation, I'd like to share my thoughts and opinions with you. In response to the question asked by our Valedictorian, the Minister of Justice has stated that while bringing this regulation, it is necessary because of the fact that the cancellations in the privatisations have arisen in the implementation of judicial decisions, due to the actual and legal impossibilities. Second, in his statement to the public, we find it difficult to find a solution in terms of criminal justice, even though there are conditions for retrial in the sledgehammer trial, Mr. Secretary. In fact, when the Minister of Justice considers these statements as a whole, you can clearly see the real reason and the need for this bill. This was actually -- again -- a significant explanation and answer for the public administration of political power, for its lack of integrity, foresawlessness, irresponsible behavior, and for its unlawful attitude. I'd like to share these observations and evaluations with you, my dear friends, by making them more concrete. Look, what does it say, Mr. Secretary? ▪ Sir, judicial decisions are being issued regarding privatisations, a few years pass; five years, six years, seven years pass, and in the implementation of these decisions there are actual and legal impossibilities, victims are born. That's why we feel the need to bring in the immediate process of judgment. Mr. Secretary, of course, he's not speaking to the truth again, he's trying to justify his own understanding of governance by denying what happened to them, in the pollution of knowledge, in the passing of time. Look, my dear friends, in 2005, 2006, 2007, there were five basic privatisations. Sejdişehir Etı Aluminum, Balıkesir SEKA, Kuşadasi, Cesme Harbor and TUPRAS privatisations were made. The cancellation decisions made by the judiciary generally emerged in 2007, formed. E, if you're really sincere about implementing judicial decisions as a power, if you have the will to act in accordance with the law, in fact, you should have applied those decisions from 2007, when there was no actual or legal impossibilities. However, the birth of actual and legal impropriety does not constitute a reason for these decisions not to be implemented. Neither was the possibility, but these decisions were not implemented. 2009, 2010, 2011, five years have passed, six years have passed, and the process has been persistently followed by us -- or by relevant professional organisations -- for these decisions to be met. The government found that there was no escape from it now, and then in 2013, the bag was passed in law enforcement, where we know that in the form of actual and legal impossibility, judicial decisions could not be carried out. The Constitutional Court called it off. The Constitutional Court said on October 4, 2013: "You can't go after someone for $305 million on a $4.5 billion Sejdişehir Etimi Aluminum Facility. There's no public interest here. However, you didn't make that decision because you wanted to fund the pool media. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We'll tell you about it in the following articles, my dear friends. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit09spe0234par0066	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit09spe0235par0067	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit09spe0234par0068	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... the MPs, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0234par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 97th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on Article 3 of the Union MP Attila Kart and his friends was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We will continue negotiations with Bill 592. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration be added as a structure after the declaration of the district administrative courts, which is included in Article 2 of the 592-line bill. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0236par0011	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0234par0012	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0237par0013	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0238par0014	That's the reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0234par0015	I'm reading the reason: The change aims to repair the current narrative disorder. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 4 that I am reading: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We offer and propose the addition of its declaration of the 4th amendment to the 592th amendment. Pervin Buldan Selma River İdris Bauken Erol Dora Adil Zozani Faysal Sarı Yıldız Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 4th edition of the current 592 Rows Numbered Bill. We propose and provide the addition of the work and the declaration to the clause (c) to the joke. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Attila Kart Ömer Suha Aldan Haydar Akar Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Congressmans, I'm going to have the motion to read now, and I'm going to have it read and processed in violation of the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 4th edition of the current 592 Rows Numbered Bill. Because of its violation of the Constitution, we propose and propose that the bill be removed from the text. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Sumer Oral Ali Longırmak Murat Basesgioğlu Reşat Right Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0239par0043	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0234par0044	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0240par0045	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0234par0046	Faruk Bal asking for a word on the motion is the MP of Konya. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0241par0049	Mr. President, in my speech earlier on our motion, I have stated that Turkish law will face new issues that are highly controversial among academics, which it has not met or discussed, after narrating the negativity of the law. Now I'm going to share a few of them with you. According to our law, which has adopted the black European system, the sole basis of evidence in the court of law is that when you file the petition, you will give all the evidence, and if you don't, you will never report the evidence again; you will report all the evidence when you file the response petition, or you will never give evidence again. This is what we call the unique rule of evidence. Now, the problem we're going to face when we come to the court of law is that the evidence in the first degree court has been consolidated, the court has passed judgment, and this court -- this decision -- has been taken into contempt. How will the case of evidence be handled in a court of law? If the court of law overturns the verdict, he will be sentenced as a first-degree court, then he will have the right to ask for his evidence. If he does so, then the first-degree court will not be subject to evidence, nor will the plaintiff or defendant present the card in his hand, but will try to reach a conclusion in a court of misdemeanor. Of course, this particular matter of evidence cannot be dealt with. In that case, we will face another problem - a direct confirmation of the evidence from the judge in the court of law, a direct assessment of the evidence, and a conscientious conviction according to this. If the court of law decides to ratify it, it will decide with the evidence collected by the first-degree court, and therefore, the principle of direct contact with the evidence will be eliminated. If the court of law is going to overturn the case with these evidence, then another problem arises: How can it directly contact the evidence collected by the first-degree court? I mean, how's he gonna listen to the expert? I mean, how's he gonna make the discovery? How's he gonna end up like a first-degree court in the jurisdiction? So the answer to these, whys, is that in the court of law, it reveals the situation that is fundamentally prolonging the judiciary around the world, and that raises another problem that Turkey has yet to begin to discuss for the situation. The issue is so serious, so severe, but the confusion shouldn't be in this case. Thus, in Turkey, if you leave the judge, the judge, the prosecutor, to face the same problem now as the law of criminal law in 2004 when changing the penal code, eliminating a criminal law culture in a whole new dimension. This will have serious consequences in the field of law as much as Mao's cultural conflict; this will be the beginning of problems in a major case where Turkish law has not even begun to debate at the academic level. Thus, I offer my respects to all of you, the great committee, that this clause, which violates the principles of the violation of the Constitution, is removed from the draft text.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0242par0056	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 4th edition of the current 592 Rows Numbered Bill. We propose and provide the addition of the work and the declaration to the clause (c) to the joke. Omar Suha Aldan (Mugla) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0243par0062	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0242par0063	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0244par0064	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0242par0065	Atilla Kart asking for a quote on the motion is the Consolidated MP. Here you go, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0245par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, I salute the General Assembly. My dear friends, in the previous article, I mentioned two statements from the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice, in fact, that those two statements were the basis of this bill. What does the Minister say? We need an immediate trial. We must not immediately cause new problems regarding privatisations and binding tender practices. In order not to cause new problems, you need to do those privatisation practices transparently as the government, considering the public benefits. You can't have those problems if you do, but you're violating them. By subjugating public interest there, you're essentially responsible for those conflicts by doing one-fifteenth of the war price at a price of one-to-one in twenty. What happens after that? In 2009, in 2010, you were able to implement those judicial decisions, but you didn't apply them because of the illegal relations created entirely in between, but at a certain point, you had to apply them. It's six or seven years later, we're coming to 2013, we're coming to 2012, you're getting up there, you're doing new regulations with the midnight bag of law by taking down the 138th article of the Constitution so you don't have to implement those judicial decisions. The Constitutional Court is canceling on October 4, 2013, but you're determined, you're making a new arrangement. What are you doing? You're bringing back a special pardon for the removal of special authority courts, where you're making changes in the 27th and 28th Articles of the Executive Judiciary Act, where, in case public officials fail to implement their judicial decisions, you're making changes in the matter that regulates your personal responsibility, the responsibility of compensation, because you need to make these changes personally, as a political staff. You're trying to shut down the illegalities you've committed by making new illegalities. That's where the problem begins, my dear friends. What's the reason you're doing all this after that? Of course, according to you, of course, according to the staff, according to the political power, I'm saying that you have the right facts -- because you're creating pool media, you need to give public resources to those pool media. That's why you need to keep the privatisations of this kind of irregular, unfair, corrupting ground. That's why you're destroying the legal system, making constitutional institutions obsolete, the constitutional institutions are losing function, Mr. Secretary. That's the bottom line. We look at it, we live in Silivri trials, or we live in Sledgehammer trials, or we live in KCK trials. We also see there that five or six years passed, since 2007 as the Republican People's Party, you've come to the point of acceptance of what we've said since 2008, you're coming out in 2013, you're expressing to the highest degree that there was a conspiracy in the trial process, Mr. Prime Minister allocates the entire group's speech to this. Then what do you have to do? You need to create concrete and objective evidence that will be the basis of that retrial. So, by administration, by administrative agencies, you must first uncover those headquarters, which have abused public office, committed crimes, forged documents, forged evidence, produced evidence, with an administrative investigation. Of course, there's certainly your responsibility as political authority, I'm putting his constitutional dimension, political dimension aside, but if you're sincere, if you're honest, you need to have that administrative examination first, but you're not doing that, and you're continuing to maintain that mood, that chaos. We can't figure this out. And by "Mr. Secretary," I mean it from your mouth -- in fact, in the process, you're expressing your weakness, on the other hand... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you're expressing your immunity, and you're really creating a lot of damage by making the constitutional institutions of the Republic of Turkey unsustainable, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0246par0078	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We offer and propose the addition of its declaration of the 4th amendment to the 592th amendment. Fair Zozani (True) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0247par0085	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0246par0086	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0248par0087	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0246par0088	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0249par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. In my speech on the previous motion, I was referring to the subject of these patient prisoners, but it was incomplete. I'd like to share a few things with you again about him. This latest data I've received has been updated that 642 chronic patients are currently heavy in prisons. Look, I don't think there's anyone in this House who's ever been to prisons to see the drama, the cruelty that these sick prisoners are involved in. In fact, some of the commissions set up within this Parliament specifically went to prison and interviewed those sick prisoners. One of them was a subcommittee of the solution process. Lawmakers of the ruling party also left, and when lawmakers of the ruling party went and saw that painting, when they came back, they said, "These patients must be released immediately." I mean, with an understanding that he doesn't listen to his own congressman, he doesn't listen to the commission of his own House...
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0250par0094	They definitely need to be released.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0249par0095	Mr. Mehmet is here, and you are... I mean, it's time to get over procedures and stuff like that. It's a human condition, a conscientious condition. I'm a physician. As a physician, the removal of a person's right to treatment in a concrete pit means, friends, frankly, the right to live is the same as the execution. So far, countless procedures have been brought to our attention. The arrangements need to be made are clear, simple. The arrangement brought in here added concrete and heavy grounds for the cause of the public, which was given to the prosecutor or to the branch. Is that even possible? Imagine the safety of a man who's been in prison for 20 years, an unrelated law enforcement unit will decide, and a prosecutor will decide in his opinion. That shame has to be eliminated, folks. This is a matter of conscience, I repeat. Look, there's also the situation: I mean, he can't stay in prisons from full-fledged state hospitals, university hospitals, he can't survive. There are reports. Reports from these full-fledged hospitals are being sent to the Forensic Medical Association, and reports from Forensic Medicine are being written in the opposite direction. Now, for one thing, this is unscientific, friends, the knowledge of a full-fledged university hospital or an educational research hospital, medical equipment, technical equipment, is not comparable to forensics; we say this professionally. In fact, when you look at it in that transfer sequence in medicine, it makes you look ridiculous. We need to eliminate this current situation. You don't trust your own hospitals? All of these hospitals belong to the Republic of Turkey, to the citizens of this country, to the Ministry of Health or to universities. If you don't trust the reports of these hospitals, then don't send your own citizens to these hospitals for healing purposes. Therefore, it is necessary to eliminate this situation with the medical examiner's office, which must be carried out by the reports of university and educational research hospitals. In fact, if you're in doubt, you'll know the right to take a report from a university hospital or an educational research hospital to a hospital, the right to take it to a hospital, as well as to the prisoner, whether it's the ministry or the prosecutor, you'll know the person who stands in the way of it; it's as simple as that. Let's make an adjustment to the treatment process of the patients who are in there, about the extradition of their rights, at least, in this package of justice, together. With 140, 230, 640 sick people released, this country won't be divided. You need to get rid of this paranoia. I say that a criteria such as public safety, as a disgrace, must be removed from these laws, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0251par0099	Thank you. I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 5 that I make read: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We offer and propose the addition of the letter of the 5th article of the 5th Amendment, which is included in the 2nd article of the current law, instead of the sign. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Selma River Faysal Sarıyıldı Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of the Numbered Bill 5. We propose and propose that the clause (c) be removed from the article text. Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Haydar Akar Congressmans, the motion I shall now read is a motion for violation of the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of the Numbered Bill 5. Because of its violation of the Constitution, we propose and propose that the bill be removed from the text. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Sumer Oral Ali Longırmak Murat Basesgioğlu Reşat Right Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0252par0126	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0251par0127	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0253par0128	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0251par0129	Faruk Bal asking for a word on the motion is the MP of Konya. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0254par0131	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, who represent the Commission, Mr. Congressman and Mr. Secretary, when you're having a conversation with someone else, we don't agree with our motion. They answered because they didn't listen, and I'm going to talk about something else. If they're not listening, I'll talk about something else. The incident occurred after December 17, 25th. After the 17th, 25 December corruption operation, the government's influence was broken, and the Parliament's initiative was corrupted. Since then, Mr. Prime Minister's work has only fueled the parallel, just the rhetoric of the ship and only hatred, hatred and belief and ethnic dissolution. Mr. Prime Minister is out in the open, expressing public grudges and hate speech, and he is not sending a bill to parliament on anything important that could seek solutions to economic, social and political problems in front of Turkey, or such a bill does not come from the AKP Group. God is the shepherd's successor. There's no cure for the drama of subcontractors. Unregistered teachers await another appointment, education is entrusted to substitute teachers. There's no cure for unemployment. 4x4x4... were they saying "plus", we turned it into a cross, with problems in every family. There's no cure for drama about the education of the children we're going to entrust our future to. Experts are being treated like slaves, while the privates are in the middle, taking all the weight of the army. Petty Officers have similar problems, the police have a staff issue, but the government has two problems to look for a solution: One of which is how do we get rid of corruption investigations? They find their way, they become lawful! Under regulations, the forces in the parliamentary democratic system of the Republic of Turkey can break the principle of separation, they can change it. So, they can put the police officer in charge of the executive force, tie the prosecutors to the Alobook lines, and give the police chiefs orders and instructions not to implement court decisions, and talk about a future struggle in the problem that arises. This is what Turkey is like, and that's what we've been going through since 17 December and 25 December. My dear friends, this is the House of Veterans. Any decision this House makes is about the integrity of the nation. We can't be sentenced to law enforcement from this House to destroy evidence of a major corruption operation that occurred on December 17, 25th. In order to devalue those evidence, the Veteran Parliament could not be convicted, but it did so with the majority of the AKP Group. Now, it is necessary to design high judicial bodies according to this; to save AKP's tail stuck in the door in corruption operations. That's why there's adjudicial courts being brought to both the administrative court and the judicial court. For this purpose, HSYK is being re-designed. For this purpose, the judgment is brought to a more dire point in 2010 than the one we stubbornly criticised, insisting that the blood be washed in blood.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0255par0135	That's right.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0254par0136	In the trial, only the driver in the driver's seat wants to be replaced. They are not brought there to set up an independent, impartial judge, who sits in the cloak of the prophet, who will weigh his rights with a jeweler's scales. Long man, long man, long live there in the Facebook. The AKP-led judges who say, "Long live." So, it turns out that one of the 25 prosecutors who was going to investigate Soma is running for president of the AKP. That's where the judgment came in. How are we supposed to expect justice from here? How can we expect justice from here? How can we expect law from here?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0256par0138	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0257par0139	What's a presidential candidate like? How's the AK PARTY running for mayor?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0258par0140	How does a prosecutor become an AK PARTY candidate?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0259par0141	Look in the papers, you'll find it!
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0260par0142	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 592th Amendment. We propose and propose that the clause (c) be removed from the article text. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0261par0148	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0260par0149	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0262par0150	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0260par0151	Ali Serindağ, MP of Gaziantep, has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0263par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I don't know what kind of package this is, I've lost count, and I don't think the MPs remember. Now, you, with every package of judgment, you change the structure of the Supreme Court, you destabilize the Supreme Court, you disrupt the unity of the accused, you prevent the formation of the confederacy, you prevent the institutionalization of the High Judiciary, and you make the judiciary unsustainable. Congressmans, the judiciary is very important, the judiciary is very important in the life of a community. I just asked Mr. Secretary a question, and I said, for what purpose did Mr. Chief Prosecutor visit the Prime Minister right after he was elected? Mr. Secretary knows very well that I didn't mean that meeting, I meant the meeting in July. Look, I believe the Chief Prosecutor was elected on July 18th -- if I'm not mistaken -- and the visiting date was July 30th or 31st, and after that, Mr. Prime Minister was in extradition. Why is there a refund? He has visited him once before, one way or another, except on a business visit. Look, life, execution, judgment. I mean, it's not a subsidiary of judgment, but most of all, it's a matter for the judges to pay attention. I believe there are members of the judiciary here, who should be most careful, and if you don't pay attention, the politicians will use you. Now, why am I saying this? Look, at the 1839 Order of Tanzimat, the idea that the procedures of the administration should be audited in accordance with the law. The Sûra-yi State was founded in 1868, the State of Şura-yi is the face of the state being transferred to the republic, very important, and for that reason, the heads of the State are doing a very important task. Mr. Zerrin Güngör can meet with whomever he wants, he can meet with the Prime Minister, we don't say anything. What we're looking at is the title of the Office of State. Therefore, everyone must fulfill the requirements of his occupation, his task. We've seen the latest example of this at the State's founding year's ceremony, and it's been in the press. What did he do? Mr. Prime Minister, as soon as he gets up and goes after what we all know, Mr. Chief Prosecutor can't stand up to Mr. Prime Minister by putting two sides of his robe together, no marrow, no buttons. Look, there are lawyers among you, why isn't this robe buttonless, why isn't it buttoned? This is the symbol of independence. It's a symbol that says no one should bow to you. And most of all, they have to watch out for it. Mr. Secretary, that's why I asked you this question. Otherwise, of course, the Chief Public Prosecutor can meet with Mr. Prime Minister, and he can talk to others, which is fine, but the reason for the visit is very important. Look, Mr. State's President was elected -- you know, a month later -- but he didn't run first. Look, it's not the first time in history that he's run for office. Later, the tours continued, he was selected in the 14th round, and he appeared in the press. Read the news in the press: "The groups agreed, so they were chosen. " This is not the only example. 13. In the apartment, the presidency is empty -- we have friends who know what's going on -- 13. When the office was empty, a member was a senior, he was nominated; he couldn't be elected for days, and there were empty votes in the bloc. You know why? A member was not qualified to be president, his seniority was expected to be enough, and he was chosen after being expected. I mean, what are you guys doing now? You've put the prosecution in that position, and now you want to put it in a different position. Before me, Mr. Honey also mentioned that this is not about correcting your judgment, but rather about being like yourself. It won't help you either, and it won't help Turkey. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0264par0168	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the addition of the letter of the 5th article of the 5th Amendment, which is included in the 2nd article of the current law, instead of the sign. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0265par0175	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0264par0176	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0266par0177	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit10spe0264par0178	I'm reading the reason: The change aims to repair the current narrative disorder. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-04sit11spe0264par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 97th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 592. Commission? No. It's been postponed. On Thursday (June 5th 2014), the decision to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order is at 14 p.m., according to the decision made on Thursday (June 5, 2014). I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
