tbmm-2014-11-19sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The first roll call at the opening didn't have enough meetings. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Mr Kemalettin Yilmaz, the MP of Afyonkarahisar, who wants to talk about the education system and the problems in Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0002par0015	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have taken an off-the-book promise on the education system and the problems in Turkey. I salute your high council. You can appreciate that education is the basis of everything. Unfortunately, our educational system is at the very beginning of our 12-year era, the most worn out, most played, most debated, and most used to politics in your power. On top of that, it's supposed to be national education, unfortunately, because of you, our schools have come to the point of unwarranted debates where the seeds of racial and religious separation have been planted. With each changing Minister of National Education, a new system, a new curriculum, a new staffing effort has been staged. What happened was to our parents, our children, and our teachers. This is all a serious waste of time and resources. Neither parents nor teachers nor students can see their future. It's certainly not in our country's best interest to play with our educational system so often. At the coming point, the teacher's nervous, the parent's nervous, the student's nervous, our future's in trouble. Those who cause it will eventually pay for it both ways. Our education has many problems. Due to the lack of time, I'd like to address the important and current ones. During the AKP ruling period, the teacher's gap was never closed. While thousands of teachers waiting for the appointment are standing by, choosing to be a substitute teacher rather than assigning them to dignity, preferring to be a substitute teacher, preferring to be an additional teacher is a serious challenge to our education. Usually, dude, these assignments with familiar and political advice, and unjust practices, they make our people nervous. The appointment of managers in the past few months has been an example of injustice and unlawful conduct. In these appointments, the members of the yellow trade union, called "MEMURUR-SEN), who have made AKP governments their own backyards, have been donated to the executive staff. These appointments, conducted entirely under subjective assessments, have neither the right nor the right to a driver's license. The rights of thousands of rulers have been imposed. So we will see in the coming days that those who practice these illegal practices in our schools will not get away with it. I believe that despite your threats, blackmail and bribes, there are still justice judges and prosecutors in Turkey who are still not trapped between the conscience and the wallet. Dear lawmakers, the fees of our teachers are far, far from being met by the requirements of both duty and social status. You have condemned our teachers to the border of poverty. How right it is to remember our teachers one day a year when they kiss their hands on the 24th of November Teacher's Day. I'm already celebrating Teacher's Day. Unfortunately, you continue to ignore the victims of our teachers who have suffered the most injustice among our teachers. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is not acceptable for you to stand by and watch the terrorist organization burn down schools, classrooms and dorms, especially when you come to the point of negotiation and agreement from the point of struggle. Isn't it a shame for our children who have no schools, no classrooms and no homes? It's a shame for our children who are the guarantee of our future. If you call it transport training, it's a disgrace! Again, our children suffer from late tenders, jobless administrators. In the snow, in the winter, in the tractor, in the tractor trailer, or in the stockpile of fish, our children are living their lives. On the other hand, it's a disgrace to have our children weighed like sheep by the highway cantars. You've already finished your training as an apprentice, thank God. The industry tradesmen are having trouble finding apprentices and co-workers. A lot of jobs have gone missing. Empathize for a moment and replace these children with your own. It's a shame. And then you're going to talk about educational equality; is that possible? We need to correctly identify our problems in education and create correct solutions because yesterday's mistakes have resulted in children's deaths, children's daughters-in-laws, divorces, violence to women, violence to women, unemployment, lying, dealing with Talan, terrorism, drugs, massacres, workers' deaths, traffic accidents, abuse of our saints, cultural erosion, cultural pollution, corruption, injustice, lack of knowledge, pools, resetting of shoe boxes, reliefs, extortions, threats, blackmails, and bribes. Dear lawmakers, we as a country don't deserve any of this negativity at all. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0003par0027	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. The second non-responsive statement is from Istanbul MP Binnaz Üz Ürfa, who asked for a comment on the problems of AIDS patients due to European HIV Scan Week. Here you go, Mr. Land.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0004par0032	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to European HIV Scan Week. HIV, you know, the virus of AIDS disease, the virus that causes AIDS disease, and for the first time in the world, this disease was discovered in 1981. There must have been before, but it wasn't known. It is assumed that it came from Africa, and it soon spread throughout the world. Thus, from that day forward, it is one of the most important infectious diseases that threaten human health on a global scale. Now, to fight this disease, the United Nations has a unit called UNAIDS. According to UNAIDS 2013 data, between 33 million and 37 million people worldwide are HIV carriers, so that's a terrible number. Not all HIV carriers have AIDS, but they can infect others, of course. Another 1.5 million people died of AIDS in the world. Turkey has some data from the Turkish Public Health Institution. According to their 2013 Report, there are 5,935 patients in Turkey from 1985 to 2013 -- close to 6,000 HIV-positive patients, not to mention ill -- there are HIV-positive people, and there are 1,115 cases of AIDS. The UNAIDS report on the U.N. unit I was just talking about in 2014 says that Turkey is actually one of the countries where AIDS cases are scarce, but the number of patients and the number of carriers is growing substantially. However, Turkey has not set aside any resources for prevention of HIV since 2008. Now, the most important reason for this seems to be that AIDS patients are limited to certain groups of biases or misinformation. I mean, who are these groups? Gay men, sex workers, drug addicts, convicts, refugees, blacks and so on, so it's not a disease that's very contagious to others. But it's wrong, it's completely wrong, and it's based on prejudice because research shows that those affected by AIDS are the most heterosexual. So an important part of AIDS patients -- amongst the first groups, of course, has AIDS, but they either get it from sexual intercourse between men and women, or they get it through blood. And the saddest of these blood traps is the AIDS disease passed from mother to baby. Now, because of this false knowledge and sociopsychological prejudice, people who live with HIV. And AIDS are facing serious human rights violations in everyday life. The Positive Life Association considers these rights violations reported to them in Turkey; branding, social isolation, such as Aman is a disease of AIDS, do not approach it. Such as seeing it as the plague of our age, being subjected to degrading treatment, violation of patient privacy, violation of medical data, violation of medical rights, which is very important, of course, not being given medical care, obstructing the right to get married, blocking the right to travel. Today, however, AIDS is a disease that can be cured. There are a great number of survivors, and it is possible that even mothers with HIV virus may give birth to healthy babies today. Now, we need a comprehensive national strategy to treat current patients and prevent the spread of HIV and prevent rights violations of people living with HIV AIDS, to remove these misinformation and prejudices in society. So Turkey, unfortunately, is a country without preemptive measures, without major disasters. We've seen it in Soma, we've seen it on various occasions. These jobs in Europe and the institutions dealing with the United Nations say this disease is beginning to grow in Turkey. As Turkey grows, as it grows, as its economy grows, as so many people from the outside come in and out of here, the chances of the disease spreading are increasing. Therefore, as soon as I'm ready to focus on the matter of the House... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to invite you to look into it and look for solutions to take precautions, especially the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0005par0043	Thank you, Mr. Earth. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Colim MP Salim Beşış, who wants to talk about the work and measures carried out after the fire in Bayukuröz village of Çorum. Here you go, Mr. Nice Guy.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0006par0048	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a promise to present both information and to make some suggestions about the fires and activities of the Bayat village of Çurüköz, Çorum. I salute you. As it is known on Friday (November 14th) around evening, 27 homes and stables, village mansions, reservoirs and one workplace were completely burned down, and 30 families were affected here. Fortunately, there is no loss of life here, no animal casualties. I'd like to thank the institutions of Çorum, Bayat, Iskilp, Osmancık, Ankara Metropolitan, Çankırı, Amasya, Kargü, Tosya municipalities and forest management, 14 fire departments, 9 arazy, business machines, 2 water tanks and 1 pickups of all neighbouring counties and provinces. Our Ministry of Health has also been at the scene with two ambulances, two doctors and five medical staff, and all public officials here have served in a brutal and selfless manner. Around 4:30 in the morning, the fire was completely contained. I especially want to point out that both the public officials and our municipal staff have done a selfless work, and the residents of the surrounding village and especially the Çukurist people have done a very intense effort and have also been exemplary in social assistance and solidarity. On this occasion, I thank them and thank them for their exemplary work, and after I offer my thanks, I wish them well. The Red Moon moved very quickly here and delivered 30 tents, 100 beds, and 200 blankets. Tents have been set up by the AFAD teams. Now, here, the container has been delivered, setting up 30 containers. Our Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Numan Survivor, who was present here in Corrum, was immediately involved in the incident, and the contributions, the contributions needed from this intervention, were co-ordinated to get to our citizens quickly. There are two important outcomes here, one: fires continue throughout the country outside the fire season, and therefore fire workers -- there are numbers, there are fires in January 480 and November -- so they need to be constantly constructed, their information and equipment increased until next November. Secondly, the fire department is especially required to be free of the city's municipalities, or the fire department in the woods, to be recovered from the mess, to be single-handed, and to be part of a national network. Thus, free of political debates, the fire department will be more efficient and efficient. Artificial status, such as seasonal, temporary, or subcontractor work, must be redesigned according to the norms of the European Union, the ILO norms, the modern standards, and designed by considering EU practices. And at this point, I'd like to get the attention of those involved. Yesterday, my dear fellowman, Mr. Flood Köse, spoke and said that the health of my child had deteriorated. In fact, he gave two examples of the health and social peacebreakers of Çorum, one of which is related to hospitals. If my dear Brother Flood Köse had been here, I would have spoken better, I would have expressed it to his face, but he will surely know of these reports. One: there are 180 clinic doctors in the country, but there are 118 police clinics. According to the number of doctors, it is possible to organize polyclinics at the old hospital, in construction-building barracks. Second: Yes, our hospital is being built, and 20 per cent of the construction of the hospital that started in January is now completed. When this is over, the old hospital will continue entirely as step one and step two health care. In particular, there is no distinction between different political parties and municipalities, Mr. Flood Köse is a close witness to this, as I have done my best to ensure that both CHP municipalities and AK PARTİ municipalities will receive fair public service. Last time, Mekitsuru is from CHP, I arranged for a 465 thousand lira water pipe and a funeral vehicle to be sent to Oğuzlar Municipality. It is more important than what municipality is given in public interest, what municipality needs it. So far, 4,716 people have benefited from working for the community, and a budget has been transferred to Chorum for $30,77,000, without working for the community; I think it's more important for all of us to boast about it, to be content. I'm paying my respects again.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0007par0061	Thank you, Mr. Goody. I will make a promise to our 10 friends according to the 60th article. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0008par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, after the Act of the Metropolitan Law came into effect, the law itself began to create problems in our entire country, and the law itself began to become a problem. See, after the entire city law was passed in Balıkesir, when the municipal property of the district was purged, even though the liquidation of the municipality of Edremit was completed after the law had been passed, the municipality of the city has taken over its service buildings, and the building of the City of Goldolus service building and the city of Olives is seized. It's a gazdi, a gazbi. In addition, the city's municipality is confiscating the Aksakal service building in Bandirma. The water is $3 in the Bandirma district, and Balıkesir sells water for $1 in the centre. He uses his powers almost as a guardianship tool over districts, CHP municipalities; he uses them as a means of oppression; he performs discrimination, immoral and illegal practices among citizens. Today in Bandirma, water prices are three times higher than the central price, and our nation, our people, are rioting in the streets. I'd like to see these fixed as soon as possible, a water policy that suits justice and justice.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0009par0070	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0010par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. Denizli Metropolitan Municipality Water and Sewering Administration General Directorate DESKI has announced the change of the substructure of Azpayam, expanding the wastewater colector line in this framework, starting to build a network of 600,500m long. As part of the work, the sewers and wastewater pipes will be left to Dalaman Tea, which stretches from Aşapayam, to Dalalaman, Dalaman Province, Turkey. Is it true that sewage and waste water will be left to Dalaman Tea? Why is this plan, which has been collected by locals and various NGOs, done without first considering the first activation of the decontamination systems? Have feasibility studies been done for this practice that would destroy Dalaman Tea by increasing pollution? Are the results of the infrastructure work well assessed? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0011par0075	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0012par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. It's Dentist Week this week. We've been talking about our problems in the House for four years. Despite the parties' joint proposals, the government is failing to keep its promises. I'd like to express my regret here that you haven't made any progress in our profession in four years. They don't take services from free clinics even though they're promised to buy them. In addition, regulations that make the practice difficult are being drawn up. There's been no improvement in the rights of our colleagues who work at oral and dental clinics. The performance problem is still going on. Gene, the problems of the technicians and the industry that make up the side branches and imports, exports, the manufacturing industry, the industry can't be dealt with. But we're not giving up hope. We're celebrating Dentist Week. I believe the House will promise all my colleagues that these problems will be taken care of from here. I'm celebrating their week again. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0013par0082	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0014par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the Global Slavery Index has been published. This new report came out of which 35.8 million people live in slavery conditions around the world. According to the slavery index, Turkey, which is among 167 countries around the world, unfortunately, is ranked 105. According to this, Turkey is the country where the most slaves live in Europe with 185,500 people. Last year 120,201 people were considered modern slaves in Turkey, while this number increased by 65,299 this year to 185,500. Again, 185,500 people are defined as slaves in this country according to the world index. This is what the AKP has brought to our country. With all due respect.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0015par0087	Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0016par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. As in our country, almost every district in our province of Kütahya, Gediz, Altıntaş and Haganlı districts have closed down several underground mining businesses in the last month, and therefore nearly 2,000 workers, unfortunately, have been out of work. The number of workers in this situation is more than 10,000 across the country. Due to recent legal regulations, some charges that have led to a cost increase in underground coal companies, which have increased by about 50 per ton, have become inevitable to support domestic coal production by the state. Otherwise, our country will be forced to import coal and will face new business accidents in large numbers. In this regard, I have made it my duty to invite the government's relevant ministries, particularly the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, once again. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0017par0092	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0018par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Farmers and tradesmen in the town of Tokat are in great trouble, calling us and asking for their status at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to be brought to light. The tradesman's super and the law of hypermarkets is so difficult that we're faced with closing our stores, we're losing our jobs, they say. The government immediately expects supermarkets, the law concerning the malls, protecting the small tradesmen, to be discussed in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to be legalised. Besides, the slap farmer's lost it this year. Tokat Province began to impound the farmers of Kazova, Zile, Artova, Kelkit Plain. They're facing loss of their land, their homes. And this year, they're saying they haven't received anything, including the seed to use in October. In order to get rid of debt, the farmer needs immediate support. We're inviting the Department of Agriculture on duty. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0019par0098	Mr. New...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0020par0100	Mr. President, why don't you tell me about the work in Samsun? We've built courts in our Terme districts on Wednesday, especially in the Samsun central court of justice, where 57 million euros were spent. I wonder which way the opposition MPs go to Samsun. If they're going by land, we built the double roads, and if they're going by air, the plane to Samsuna took 2,300 flights in 2003, while the flight to Samsun took off by 10,600 flights in 2013. Now we'll build the fast train and make sure that our entire nation reaches Samsun in comfort. Also, in our Bafra district, we've built our 291-bed, hotel comfortable state hospital, which has been served. We've completed the Bafra-Sinop pass. Natural gas is now in all our counties, which is particularly used in Bafra, and I hate to say it's a magnificent factory without chimneys, but there are a lot of people working there - prison...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0021par0105	Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0022par0107	Thank you, Mayor. Hundreds of rights owners have complained that their homes have been destroyed in the urban transformations launched in October 2012 in Istanbul's Esen district Airport neighbourhood. The owners of the rights are reacting because the dwellings, which are declared to be given to them in the contracts, are cut in half. ▪ Who will pay our rent from now on, they say, when the key deadline for the contract expires. The second stage of luxury housing has been sold between $280,000 and $9,000 for revenues. What kind of urban transformation is this? Last week, hundreds of right-owners walked to City Hall and were blocked by the police. What about the hundreds of rights owners who say they're victims right now? How long are they gonna be homeless? Who's in charge? Is it the City of Works, the ESCON, the Real Estate Investment Partnership? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0023par0110	Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0024par0112	Mr. President, the Cuban mosque, the "Taxim" Gunny Barrack, the "Kudus," the "Syria" is our trust. The message is given that we will continue the Ottoman sovereignty of the world. The Istanbul Metropolitan budget was relocated to the Gunner's Barracks. Those who call the trip, the people who call their actions, speak again, and those who call it freedom say that they will receive 2 million gas flares from Korea in 2015, 55 million liras. Their public order is the constraint of those who resist the reset of corruption files, the rand and debdebe of living spaces, the pursuit of free futures, the restraint of those who resist handcuffs to their identity beliefs. Gas, TOMA, that's what the concession laws are for. Football guard beats journalists, private security student breaks arms at the university, quick olive tree cuffs the company keeper, and the ruling arm of this corrupt system swears to the nation as it did in Highova. Here's the AKP public order, here's your freedom to be beaten! Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0025par0115	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0026par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, I'm glad the Minister of Development is here. We thank him for coming. İstanbul province Gülsuyu, Gülnsu, Başsılar, Zümrütevler, Esenkent and Fünklılı, where small public buses work for the right of transportation of citizens, İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality buses don't work and citizens pile up as hoarders and traffic accidents happen all the time because they drive fast. We demand that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, including our Ministry of Development, be assigned city buses by İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality for transportation. Secondly, the Yavuzturk neighbourhood of our Üsküdar district is unable to rise again. Indeed, this Head is not able to rise. As Minister of Development, what kind of work do you do for the development of these regions? And in that sense, our people expect your services. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0027par0122	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Security and Intelligence Commission has a thesis on the election of president, vice president, spokesman and clerk, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Security and Intelligence Commission was elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk for the election on Tuesday (18/11/2014), as a result of the draft of 14 (14) ballots held at 7:30 p.m. and used at 7:30 p.m., in accordance with Article 24 of the Interior Charter, the President, the Speaker, and the Clerk. For your information. Yours truly. President: Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu Niğde MP: (12) votes Vice President: Şurmuş Ünal İstanbul MP: (10) votes Speaker: Ramazan Can Kurıkkale MP : (10) vote Clerk: Fatosh Gürkan Adana MP: (10) votes It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current structure of the TESK (Turkey Traders and Artists' Confederacy) in our country, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened, based on the 104th and 105th Amendment clauses of the Interior Charter, in order to determine the problems and solutions of the tradesmen and artists, and to investigate the ways to support them, to make administrative and institutional legal arrangements. 1) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 2) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] [[Let's go.]] [[Malatya]] [[Niğde]] [[Aydın]] [[Erzincan]] [[Sinop]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 14) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] 17) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 20) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 22) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Amasya]] [[Mersin]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Tekirdağ]] 27) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Hatay]] 29) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 30) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] [[Hatay]] 35) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 38) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] Traders and artists are essential in our country's economic and social life. In our country, economic and social development are stable, disbanding and sustaining their contribution, reducing unemployment and rapidly adapting to changes in the role and market conditions in the creation of new jobs, making tradesmen and artists in economic, social and social ways indispensable. Small and medium-sized enterprises make up 99.9% of the businesses in our country, while their share in employment is estimated at 81 per cent, and their share of the increase is 59 per cent. The vast majority of these businesses are tradesmen and artists organized under the roof of TESK. The tradesman and artist community, along with their employees and family, constitutes almost a quarter of our country. However, because of this cut, there are many growing problems. In addition, the issues where our trade artists face the most problems include lack of conditional financing in support programmes and incentive packages, legislation regulations, lack of marketing, lack of vocational education and technological information, planning, tax and social security practices, job procurement, not exporting, bureaucratic procedures. Other than that, there are problems with motor vehicles. AVM and hypermarkets are disrupting the tradesman's tissue. Unfair competition must be eliminated. The social security unit must be reorganised by the health insurance unit. The problem with the tradesman today is that he can't do business. The recession of business volumes, the falling profitability, the tradesmen can't even afford their mandatory expenses. The number of tradesmen and artists who can't pay their loans, who can't invest their tax and social security premiums is increasing rapidly. For tradesmen and artists in the new package of incentives; Tax cuts for five years to new business owners and artists. It's a discounted fuel for the mover's trade, The driver, the van driver, and the bus driver have a chance to renovate their vehicles for once without the VAT and the OTV. It's a discount on social security premiums for people who work for the shopkeepers. The insurance premiums for the Kalfas are being paid by the government, A reduction in energy prices, T. Support, incentives, such as the diversification of trade loans used by the People's Bank with interest starting at zero per cent. The Social Security Agency must provide representation. Social security benefits should not be increased. Therefore, the rate of social security support agreed upon by the top judicial body should be reduced to 10 per cent. Insurance people with premium debt should also be able to benefit from health care. The difference between BUG-KUR monthlys must be resolved. In the transactions of the tradesman and artist-instructors, they must be asked for "esnaphic and artistic credentials." Today, Turkey's People's Bank, the most important share of funding for tradesmen and artists, needs to be strengthened, but the privatisation of the bank from this position is on the agenda. Legal arrangements must be made for the People's Bank to be rebuilt into the bank of the tradesman and artist. It is known that indirect taxes are a form of tax that is unfair, and that few winners and many winners pay equally. The total tax revenues of indirect tax revenues in the EU and OECD countries, which averaged around 30 per cent, rose to 70 per cent in Turkey in recent years. It's an incentive to be off the books. Minimal income reduction is an essential part of the modern taxation system, which has been implemented for many years by all developed countries. Our tradesmen and artists, however, are often a group of workers who work hard, based more on their work than on their capital in law enforcement. It is imperative that he be supported and encouraged. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the problems and solutions of the troops to the villages in our country, we demand and demand the establishment of the Parliament's research commission under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution 98th and Turkey's Grand National Assembly. [[Adana]] 2) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Mersin]] [[Samsun]] 6) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Erzurum]] 8) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Inconceived]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 11) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Elizipt]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Sakarya]] [[Mughle]] [[Lug]] [[Kastamon]] [[Mersin]] The Ministry of Service to Villages (KHGB) is a private organisation established by the permission of the Ministry of Interior and the Council of Ministers, under Article 127, Article 5355 of the Constitution, and Article 18 of the Law on Mahalli Administrations to meet and meet its needs in order to meet and meet its needs. The Units of Service to Villages are the local administrative units that have increased their efficiency in recent years. In accordance with Section 5355, these troops have been given many tasks. The management of the Service to Villages Associations has been left to 297 personnel and governors in the provinces and to the governors in the districts. The employees of these troops, whose administration has been run by the state and has been activated by the SCEAS projects, which have been one of our government's leading projects in recent years, are being run by people who are called temporary employees in labour status. In contrast, the Unions of Service to Villages are institutions that are subject to different provisions in terms of staff employment. These different provisions, unfortunately, make the staff employed in these unions a victim, unable to look ahead with confidence, in another expression unsecured. To understand the subject we are trying to make a statement, we need to briefly focus on the quality of the troops and the legal framework they are subject to in the employment of personnel. In the joke of Article 3 (b) of Article 3 (named "Knowledges" of Area 5355, the local governing union refers to the public legal person they have established among themselves to see some of the services of multiple local administrations together. From this point of view, the local government forces... - Only members of the state's private administration. - Only the councils are members. - Only the villages are members. [[KHGB]] - State private administrations, municipalities and villages. - State private administrations and municipalities. - The state's private administrations and the villages are members. It's possible to categorize it as a unit of municipalities and villages. Sadly, even though they are in the same status, there are no troops in the KHGB, where only the villages are members. This distinction is of great importance to the creation of staff jobs and staff. That's where the victims of the staff working in these units begin. In order to prevent these victims, these units must be first covered by Law No. 657, followed by the violations of the officers and workers' staffs in these units, as part of the rules of Norm Staff and Standards, as well as by the Council and Associations. After that, the practice of Law 5620 in the past will also ensure the end of the victims with a legal arrangement for these units. Given all these developments, it would be beneficial to open Parliamentary research to determine the problems and solutions of the Union of Service to Villages in our country. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In an effort to investigate the effectiveness of social policies implemented in Turkey, to investigate whether social policies imposed on different groups are effective in overcoming the poverty limit of these parts, to determine if the social policies run by the government so far are a strengthening role in women and children's traditional roles, and to establish a comparative study of active social policies by the EU countries, and to establish a comparative study of the Constitutional 98th, under Article 104 and 105th Articles of the Civil Law. [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Social policies that every state in the world has implemented, more or less, are set up as a means of treating the sari and veiled wounds that the capital savings process has created on poor and laborers, reducing social isolation. However, these assistance by state hand have caused more serious problems. The AKP government has implemented its social policy approach since its arrival in power, implementing poor and labourers to vote by keeping the city's poor in poverty. Experts stress that social policies should be made by voluntary organisations and NGOs in order to resolve the inequality of the capital savings process. In research on poverty profiles in Turkey, 13 million -- 18.2% of the population -- the most vulnerable groups facing the risk of poverty are women under 14 years of age, single-man households, mostly women over 65, women living in the country, and women working in the country -- because they work in unsafe and bad conditions. In the shadow of Neoliberal economic policies and global crises, 35 per cent and 40 per cent of employment risk direct poverty because of structural problems in Turkey's business market, at a time when long hours of work are considered lucky to be among the poor who can at least work. Turkey is not successful in fighting poverty, due to lack of regular income support for the poor and lack of a civic approach. Social protection spending has a 29.5 per cent rate in EU countries, while Turkey has only 13 per cent. However, since this part is not being applied for a right-based basis, especially social welfare practices are separating groups that are more deserving of assistance than providing services on the basis of citizenship. The quality of help in particular in exchange for care is based on ongoing inequalities in domestic relationships. Social policy practices, which divide groups and base the family, are reinventing inter-family and domestic gender inequality. In the field of social protection as a poverty measure, especially the girls can't go beyond making conditional cash transfers (SNT) to families who are attending school and the cash allowance for women whose spouse died. Direct cash benefits for women during the AKP period are seen to strengthen the gender-gender work sector by highlighting the woman's care responsibility. Social policy practices are directly related to what kind of society and what kind of citizenship model is adopted. The AKP aims to form citizens who are dependent on these policies. When creating social policies, it must be considered the difficulties of categorizing groups and the need to create universal policies that will solve the problems of disadvantaged groups. In dealing with regional inequality, ethnic discrimination and inequality stemming from social gender relations, there must be comprehensive, human-based and long-term policies, and most importantly the implementation of policies that will save people from poverty. Social policies by the AKP government on different groups that it considers an election investment are nothing more than the creation of the culture of alms. In this sense, the relevant ministry must carry out its analysis of the impact, along with different actors, such as civil society and academics, to measure the healing effect of social policies. The state must implement right-based social policies instead of helping poor people out of poverty and helping certain groups. In this context, we propose that a parliamentary research commission be opened to investigate the effectiveness of social policies implemented in Turkey, to investigate whether social policies imposed on different groups are effective in investigating whether aid over the poverty line and to conduct a comparative investigation into the creation of active social policies by studying EU countries. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Wednesday 19/11/2014 (now), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 29 January 2014, the parliamentary inquiry proposed by Batman MP Ayla Akat Akat and her friends (4897 rows) to investigate the violations of the rights in prisons in Turkey's Grand National Assembly was proposed to be presented before other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the same-date joint of the talks on Wednesday (January 19/11/2014). In favour of Peoples' Democratic Party Group proposal, Şırnak MP Mr. Faysal Sarıyıldız. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0028par0374	Mr. President, I have been promised to express the opinion of the People's Democratic Party, our party regarding the rights violations of the prison and the condition of the sick prisoners. I salute you all. In Turkey, prisons where human and moral values have been sacrificed to political accounts continue to be the bleeding wound of this country. Prisons are at the top of the most rights violations in Turkey. The prisons are where countries are most prominently exposed to the value and respect of human rights to human beings. Unfortunately, Turkey has had a bad record of rights violations from past to present. In particular, rights violations in prisons have also been moved to international areas and have shown a significant increase in recent years. With the AKP's power, the number of prisoners and prisoners remaining in prisons in parallel with right violations is remarkable. Statistics show that it has reached the highest issue in the history of the Republic. Even in the 1980 coup, the rate of hail has never been this high. He's currently trying to live in negative conditions in over 145 thousand prisoners and convict prisons. Despite this negative picture, however, the government finds its solution to building new prisons. I don't want to hear about rights violations from prisons every day. The naked search, arbitrary practices, handcuffed examination; blocking publications such as books, magazines, and newspapers; restricting conversation and ventilation rights, exiles to other prisons, and the government continues at its full pace, and the government has an attitude that ignores these violations. Human shame in prisons has reached a whole other level, and prisons have become wells of death. In response to a question asked him during a prison visit, Mr. Cemil Cicek, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, said he felt the word "Jezaevi" touching me, the guesthouse. In the so-called guesthouse where I stayed for five years, we saw nothing but right violations, handcuffed treatment, hunger, arbitrary disciplinary punishments, isolation, sickness, and death, and our eyes were touched by your hospitality! We're looking forward to this hospitality again. [[!]] Mr. President, good lawmakers, one of the most important problems in prisons today is certainly the condition of the sick prisoners. As a deputy out of prison, I personally witnessed antidemocratic practices, lawlessness, and arbitrary practices that have been applied to all political prisoners, particularly the sick prisoners. I've seen sick prisoners on my side bunk at night moaning, trying to sleep with morphine meds. In prisons, sick prisoners who have turned skin into bones and their faces faded are standing in the middle as the biggest shame in this country. In prisons, the vast majority of sick prisoners have suffered severe illness due to the state's systematic torture policies and poor conditions of prisons. The problem of sick prisoners has become increasingly dangerous due to the insensitiveness of the AKP government and its small political accounts. Currently, 228 are heavy, 578 sick prisoners left to their fate and death. In response to the Ministry of Justice's Information Act, five prisoners lose their lives each week. Patient prisoners face the government's policy of killing Tedricen. The basic human rights and freedoms can't be restricted, except for the limited rights of one person from being in prison. As a matter of fact, the execution law in Turkey is prepared with an understanding that does not humanize prisoners, impose authority and rules, not the right to live, but the security issue. The imprisonment and death of sick prisoners is a clear violation of the European Declaration of Human Rights and the right to protection from torture because it is injustice and torture for sick prisoners to live in the right to health and to be kept in prison. In prisons, there is a crime of torture against sick prisoners. I'm afraid the fate of the sick prisoners has fallen into the hands of the Forensic Medical Association, the product of the September 12th fascist junta. Due to the poor practices of the Forensic Medical Association, which considers the unscientific and ideological interests of power, heavy patients who are not allowed to be executed die in prison or die a few days after being released. One of the latest examples was Ramadan Özalp, who died shortly after his release last month. Our attempts by the government and former President Abdullah Gul for other sick prisoners, especially Ramazan Özalp, have failed. On the basis of the reports of İstanbul Security Directorate and Idil Gendarme Command, I ask you to listen to the cautionary decree sent to Ramadan Özalp: ▪The decision of the prosecutors to dismiss the request for evacuation, which is not a danger to public safety itself, but may be used as a means of propaganda by some political individuals and citizens in case the person comes to the village of Dirsekli or the district of İdil, which may lead to various social events has been decided. I mean, even if he dies like this, the patients inside can't be left alone in a fun way. This is no ordinary death. The government responsible for this death is the AKP government. Here are the sick prisoners sacrificed to such an unconscionable wheel, and this is done in the name of justice. Shame on such justice! The government must eliminate this unconscionable and illegitimate attitude. Prosecutors who are prosecutors must not save money on sick prisoners; prosecutors must be stripped of that authority immediately. The execution must be halted by a full-fledged hospital report, depriving ATK of the decision-making of the state's ideological interests as the only validation of the sick prisoners. We call upon the government to put an end to this human disgrace immediately. The release of the solution to the problem of sick prisoners leads to serious anger and tension in society. If he wants to show that the AKP government is sincere in its resolution launched by Mr. Ocalan and the government's declaration of will, he must take steps to reduce anger and tension in the community. When we look at the world's experiences, those who are in the process of resolving have always taken steps to soften the anger in the hearts. Although not the quality of political bargaining, human, moral steps have set the stage for great peace. We appeal to the AKP government: If you want to soften anger at the heart, release the sick prisoners immediately. Mr. President, good lawmakers, one of the most intense rights violations in prisons are exiles under the name of mandatory transfer. Prison administrations and relevant state officials say that prisoner and prisoner transports are often due to insufficient capacity. However, we know very well that's not the case. Exiles are one of the penal policies developed to break the prisoner's will. In addition, the fact that campus prisons are being held in the region makes exiles illegal. Going to prison thousands of miles away is becoming a torment for families. Many families may not be able to visit their relatives in prison hundreds of miles away for years because of financial inadequacies. In addition to the prisoner, it is to make his family and relatives pay the financial and spiritual price. The government must end these banishment policies. Prisoners must be sent back to their families' cities or to prisons in nearby settlements. Mr. President, before I stop speaking, I would like to point out that the right to use continuous or indefinitely broadcasts in prisons is sacrificed to the arbitrary practices of the administration. A larger ban has been imposed on prisons with five book restrictions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Recently, Tekirdağ and Kandira F-type prisons and Copperville and Sincan women have been banned from all newspapers and magazines not distributed by distribution companies in closed prisons. In particular, there is an application against the opposition and the socialist press. There's no jail time in this frame for the newsletter. Although the court does not have a decision to convene and ban, the publications are not taken to prisons freely. This practice, initiated by the prison administration, is also a lockdown policy.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0029par0392	Thank you, Mr. Yellow Star.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0028par0393	I'm finishing my last sentence, Mr. President. This fear and pressure against books and newspapers, which are one of the tools of human knowledge to produce information and enlightenment, is the continuation of the mindset that sees books and enlightenment as a great danger in the middle of the Middle Ages. Don't be afraid of books and knowledge, please read them. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0030par0397	Against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, İstanbul MP Bulent Turan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0031par0400	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group against the HDP group proposal. First of all, I salute you all. In terms of a public conscience, our society uses the expression "destiny prisoner" with a common approach to people in prison.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0032par0402	Not prisoners of fate, politicians...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0031par0403	We all know how valuable this approach is, how different it is, how different the view is, how this society sees the matter as a matter of conscience, by the expression of a fated prisoner, for people who are in that field without a crises. So, I would like to extend my condolences to all the prisoners of fate, especially our friend who just spoke. Prison is a conclusion, and the heart wants it, if we can boast that we have no prisoners in prison, even though these crimes, these evaluations are not at all, we've done good work in prisons, we've done this, we've done this, we've done this. But when we look at the history of mankind from the great Adam, I think there's always been a criminal, a public right to take credit for it, for the sake of public authority. But the group of our party knows very well that our civilization is looking at this with the approach to Medrese-i Yusufiye. We are the people who know about Madrese-i Yusufiye, and we know about Pınarhisar Prison. So I think it's our government's duty to be more sensitive as we approach prison, to be more balanced, to be much more balanced with the people who are there and the people who are within four walls, if there are mistakes about it, to correct them. However, as I bring up the approach to Medrese-i Yusufiye, I don't think public administration can be a matter of public rights. I don't think the rights for the prisoner in prison should give birth to a public right to people who aren't in prison. I mean, if there's some basic rights to the people in prison, depending on that, there's got to be some anxiety from the deterrent of the people out there, or else the prison won't be separated from the hotel. But as it was just now: the AK PARTY government acted unconscionably, acted wrongly, made a mistake. It would be wrong, and it would be hurtful. I've got papers, I've got reports. We have a government that has taken too many steps in prisons, making serious investments regardless of the idea of prisoners, regardless of their guilt. Ten years ago, there were these things, and I'm not going to take you a lot of time today, but if you remember, ten years ago, on the agenda of this country, every week, every day, at the European Court of Human Rights, we had a country that was convicted of torture, practices in prisons, but today, with a few exceptions, we know that this issue has been removed from the country's agenda. The book didn't come, the food was like this... these are the problems, of course, but I don't think there's a big problem with that. But if there's a problem, it's our job to figure it out together -- which I am, a member of the Human Rights Commission -- to assess it. We'll appreciate the work we've done so far, we've done better, but we'll think we'll do our rights, our duty to do better. Dear friends, inmates in prisons, people who have given us the biggest data ever given us when we look at the work on what's going on. The Human Rights Commission has been established as a subcommittee and has all gone to the locations of your party's representatives, and the complaints have been reviewed, but a large majority of these complaints have been raised with a bit of press-based, a bit of an exaggeration.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0032par0405	No exaggeration, what exaggeration?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0031par0406	Once again, the heart wants that it never happens, but we have to look at the acceleration. When we consider the path we take in terms of human rights, the way we take in terms of strengthening our democracy, in terms of giving it the right to the job, in terms of handing it over, we can all consider together how well the physical conditions, economic conditions, other conditions have been corrected in the AK PARTI administration. Every detail has been considered from the rights of vegetarians to the choice of food because of their religious beliefs, dear friends so far. In this regard, many internationally, on the basis of the public rights, the institution has been allowed. The European Court of Human Rights, the European Union, the relevant institutions of the United Nations, has been given the right to visit the prisons in Turkey with civilians, to study them. They're being audited all the time, and we're going, and you're going. Once again, once again, we have no duty to look out for injustice. There may be some bureaucratic obstacles that can't perceive the government's sensitivity to human rights, that can't make a move on it, but it's our job to get over it. Let's talk together, let's share the findings, let's intervene, but I'll point out again that the AK PARTY hasn't set foot in this matter. If you say, "We'll be sorry if you say the charges just now." In society, it doesn't pay you back because it's not true. I don't want to tell you for a long time, but it is our duty to tell you that prisons have been opened to national and international audits, detention boards have been established, prison staff have opened four new centers for education, such as supervised freedom, new institutions such as the Judiciary Control, have been created, have been given some rights, such as electronic handcuffs; have taken medicine from health care; and have many rights to be given to prisoners until the doctor's choice; I can grant you the right to the detention of children's education centers, to live in prisons, to grant an alibi for severe patient; the right to be punished; the right to submit our right to trial; the right to examine our right to be punished is much more difficult -- Our problem isn't that our fellow inmates in prisons are victims, but that they're being compensated. I don't think Mrs. Sakine will believe it, she's looking at me too sideways.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0033par0410	I don't believe it. Did you believe what he said?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0031par0411	But the whole world knows that in their time in prisons, people weren't even given the right to speak their native language.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0034par0412	There are three people in the same bed, Mr. Bulent, three people in the same bed.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0031par0413	Let me remind you that in this world, in this country, in these prisons, it's not even an agenda to speak with your native tongue, it's forgotten. But we still have work to do.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0035par0414	There's child molestation, rapes, prisons, what's going on, what's...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0031par0415	See, for all the complaints, there were 135 monitoring boards for all the prisoners' complaints, 141 execution judges were set up, my friends. Very important institutions, such as the Human Rights Agency, such as Public Controllership, have been created, such as justice inspectorship. Each one of these is a ten-minute title, each a new structure in terms of law, a new step, but our claim in the referendum, our claim in the law of democratisation, our claim to bring a package every week, every month, shows our sensitivity. You know, the public already knows how many administrative investigations, how many sentences there are for the wrongs committed in prisons. Look, dear friends, you all know that there's a Public Expenses Watch platform. This platform has papers for all of us, so I looked at it today. I'm just thinking that even the expression shows what's really wrong with us: look, there was a small amount of money that the state had paid to the prisoner ten years ago, but today, the payment to the prisoner, which was $25,000 in the United States, is 5,000 dollars in South Africa, and the payment has passed by 24 grand in Turkey. Dear friends, spending on prisoners in America is almost as much as our country. I think it's a small concrete example. But if there are mistakes where there are hundreds of thousands of prisoners, I say again, let's look at it together, evaluate it and solve it. But I'd like to remind you that we see a Madrese-i Yusufiye, where we see them as places where our leader enters, where we see them as a place of education, a center of jump; we see them as places that value human rights, the development of our democracy. We don't see people coming out of there as a place to get screwed up, screwed up in society; we see it as a place for them to be able to reintegrate in some way, to make a living again. The heart wants nothing to do with it, not to worry, but I'm afraid you know there is. Dear friends, the matter of prisons is a local matter. Prisons are the result; the issue is human rights, democracy, the development of our country. If this nation gives us the opportunity to achieve our goals in 2023 in this country, and in spite of you, if this nation gives us this, we will not be talking about them in 2023, and we will see that these exceptions are much less. Our momentum, our destination, our point of view. Troubles in prisons are our crown, and it's our duty to solve them. But I'm proud to say that all of this has been greatly resolved. When our commission went to prisons, many times, as your party's representatives confessed, good work was done. We have all seen in their place that the rights of the international standards were given to the highest degree, from food, from the bed, from the physical conditions, from reading books, from watching television to all kinds of rights.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0036par0419	Come on, the prisons are in no condition to live. I'm a member of the Human Rights Commission, three inmates in the same bed, don't, don't. They don't run water, they don't eat quality.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0031par0420	Once again, if there are exceptions, we'll fix them. Look, the notes are in front of me. 215 prisons have been closed in seven years. Our ministry's decision will be closed to 196 by 2017.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0037par0422	They've been replaced, replaced.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0031par0423	We don't want to open it, we want to close it, we want to fix the conditions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Since it's not working out, we want results here. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0038par0428	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0039par0429	The painting can't be told the opposite. There are children being raped.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0040par0430	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0041par0431	Mr. President, our friend's prison painting does not reflect the truth, so let me share a little something.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0040par0432	We'd like a two-minute word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0042par0433	You didn't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0043par0434	Now, he didn't pick on me.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0040par0435	It's not a tease, Mr. President, it's a false...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0044par0436	No, it's not teasing, it's definitely not teasing.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0043par0437	I'll give you my word on that.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0040par0438	All right, let's have it in place.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0043par0439	I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Yellow Star, please.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0045par0442	Mr. President, now, as someone who's been in prison for five years, as someone who just got out, let me share a few things with a friend that I've had a little bit more fresh, which is much better understood than what his painting is really about. I stayed in Mardin Prison, it was a 300-capacity prison, there were 1,050 of us. As your friend pointed out, bunks were left at the door of the prison bathroom. We could go to the infirmary six months later, the food was being taken out according to him. Well, I'll tell you what... well, I don't know where to start. Now, a republican prosecutor in this country can say that this man's condition is fatal, and he can't do anything about it. However, in the event of his release, this organization can become propaganda, and when it is claimed, the country's indivisibility can be damaged. In addition, just yesterday, Mr. Halil Aksoy, our friend, waited at his door for five days to go to prison, without permission from the Ministry of Justice. You mentioned Kurdish correspondence; a letter written in Kurdish can be delivered after six months, and can be delivered after three months, please note all this down. If you'd like, let's form a commission together, go to the prisons to see if that's true. That's what I'm offering you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0046par0449	Thank you, Mr. Yellow Star. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Erzincan MP Muharrem Ilk. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0047par0456	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) about the rights violations in prisons. I salute you all. When I just listen to my brent friend's speech, you get to go to jail, it's a five-star hotel. [[Smiles from CHP rows]] Now, in 2002, the number of prisoners and prisoners was 59,429. As of 2014, there are 155,863 prisoners and prisoners today; 22 of them are prisoners, 11.488 That's what success is. There's more than three times the increase since it's been rehabilitated beautifully. Of course, in the economy, we're the world's 6th, or the world's 17th, and we're building a thousand-bed, 1 quadrillion- trillion palaces per capita, $10,500 per capita income; for prestige, we're building a thousand-bed, 1 quadrillion, 375 trillion palaces; we're building roads.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0048par0461	Where's a thousand beds?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0047par0462	Wait a minute. But most of all -- where am I going -- there are people in prisons who are sentenced to prison for theft. You say you're very conservative, you claim that, but in your time of power, prostitution and drugs exploded, and in the second place, there are those who do. The people who ruled the country have disturbed the social and psychological balance of society. He may have changed in prisons by now because the number changes daily -- 27,366 drugs, 26.596 thefts, 226,944 homicides. And that's how well our country is managed, how well the economy is going. Of course, since there's no peace or prosperity in the country, people are always stealing or turning to drugs or killings, and that's another way to feed them, but you can't help yourself. Now, you have a plan to build 153 more prisons in Turkey -- just now we will reduce the number of prisons of our friends. On 3 February 2014, the Ministry of Justice told us that in 2017 the capacity of prisons would be increased to 255,715. Of course, when you categorize prisons, your sole goal is not to design the idea of getting people in here, but to get them into society, but to do whatever it takes to get them under pressure and out of there -- you're trying to get them out, and that's for sure. You're telling us to let the others do it. Here's what we, the People's Party of the Republic, see where we go as the prison commission, where, above all, they forget that the prisoners are human beings. Because you're putting so much pressure on the naked top search... that the student is studying at the same university of applied sciences in the same county... that when she leaves to go to and from school every day, she's looking naked, and when she comes back, she's looking naked, and she's still looking in a way that doesn't suit humanity. Places we go all the time. You're obstructing conversation, courses, workshops, hobbies. The beating goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on You're giving me a restraining order against counseling. The heaters don't burn, so the guy says, "I'm gonna go get a beret, I'm gonna get a glove, I'm gonna put it on my head." You say, "Go get a doctor's report." You don't care. Is that a thing? You don't give letters or you give them late. He's in a fun cell and he's on a roll. You're blocking the right to chat. Tortures in sponge rooms growl. Anyway, physical and psychological things that are done to children are not something that will fit in with humanity. They're definitely...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0049par0467	Then you must stop them.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0047par0468	Here, you have to do the blocking. What should we do? The government will do it. It's not your fault, either.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0049par0469	Go, press it.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0047par0470	You go and watch, you come, but no one pays attention to your reports when you arrive.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0049par0471	We went together, together.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0047par0472	Now, another thing: exiles, things you do to send prisoners elsewhere. The people lying here aren't Reza Sarraf, so he can afford 50 lawyers, 100 lawyers, and he can defend himself. These people are already begging the lawyer there to stand up for themselves, or his parents don't have any money. That's another form of torture. There's great difficulty getting to the doctor. Of course, the prisoner who enters is surely a liar, surely a cheater. It's not sick, it's lying to get out. There's a lot of sick prisoners lying in there right now, we're guessing about 500. We know that close to 200 things are fatal, that he has cancer, that he has heart disease. Now, three days of solitary confinement in Van M-type Closed Prison, a prisoner named Sevket Sanlav, was found dead on November 17th, a suspicious death. Orhan Dursun died on 3 June 2014 because of stomach cancer in the Bingol Type M Prison. He had reports, but he wasn't released. On 12 November 2014, Yunus Erzurum was found dead in Ereğli Closed Prison, still unknown. On November 3rd, the modern Aktepe was found dead in Elazig E Typei Closed Prison. The person responsible is the prison administration that doesn't send him to treatment. They said, "There's been an investigation, but there's no answer." Only 30 per cent of the heart of a prisoner named Abdullah Kalay in Kandira Prison is working. All the forensics reports are in, all of them. He's obviously in no condition to meet his own needs. Despite numerous doctor reports, he was still not released, he was left to die. Of course, don't take it the wrong way... when we say, "Your rule, or rather, your rule." Your government has always blamed Forensic Medicine, but how forensic medicine was designed, which I know very well, because when I was studying in Surgery, Forensics was there, and we knew what our former teachers were like there. You designed it, and you did it your own way. 12 years in prison. There are over a thousand sick prisoners or people who died without being sick. Their cause is unknown, and his death is unknown. Supposedly, investigations have been launched, investigations have been conducted, but the result has not been found. Of course, our most shameful job is to do all those disgusting things to children in Shakran, Sincan and Posanti Prison, the tortures there, the abuses of children there, the rapes. Of course, his posis was immediately closed. The Republican People's Party had worked very hard on that particular issue, and it was shut down. When we came to Sincan, we saw what happened later in Sincan, one by one. So there's no point in seeing it as a big success. Now, our friend just mentioned that Mr. President was in prison. Of course, the five-star, seven-star prison is different. And right now, let the President go to a prison, see the prison, see what the prison there is... (Applause in CHP rows) (Applause) I don't want anyone to go to bed, let no one, let alone see it, then it's clear what's going to happen. It has nothing to do with that. Now, when those things go to bed, of course, there's only one room, which is beautifully arranged, a room where he can open the door and take his guest whenever he wants. We've seen all those prisoners, we know.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0050par0483	You know everything!
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0047par0484	He's got a TV, carpets hanging on the wall. He settled down with them. Don't call him a prisoner.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0050par0485	Oh, come on, come on!
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0047par0486	Let him go, and let him see Kandira Prison, and see Tekirdağ E-type Prison, and see what is done there, and let Sivas go to Sivas, and see Sivas.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0050par0487	We know all about it.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0047par0488	When you see those prisons, you'll know what's going on. Unfortunately, in Turkey, the only thing you're bragging about right now is that we've built a prison, we've built a courthouse, we've just reduced the number of prisons.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0050par0490	The numbers are ahead.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0047par0491	You're not cutting it down. Look, I scored, 255...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0050par0492	We're rounding it up, picking it up.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0051par0493	We'll shut down the little prisons...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0047par0494	What are you picking up? You're doing me a favor by picking it up? You're gathering, for example, the man in Diyarbakır. You're banishing him here. Do you know how hard it was to get to that prisoner? Now that you've gathered it, where are you collecting it? In certain cities, it's like he's gathering these public hospitals and building a city hospital. That's not gonna hurt.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0050par0495	Are we going to do it like tunceli, do it like you guys, or do we just bomb it?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0047par0496	No, the important thing is to keep him from getting to this level. It'll be better if you stop him. Of course, when you go to Forensic Medicine... let me get back to him, it's very important because there are sick prisoners. Forensic medicine needs order. Well, if forensics reports are going to be, we have universities.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0050par0498	I agree with that.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0047par0499	It's got to be easy to go to colleges and get a report there, it needs to be done, it needs to be done. Unfortunately, in Turkey, your view is to bring in and silence the person who makes every noise by increasing the number of prisons. You've been having this tension all over again lately. I'm sorry, but the gas you're taking, the gases you're bidding on right now, the TOMA numbers you're giving to a new firm, if one goes up, we'll get ten. These show that our future is going to increase the number of prisons; they're going to be more prisons, more prisoners, more people going to go in. Oh, and here's the thing: people are being brought in for very simple crimes. Here's a citizen who just called, he says: "We borrowed money from a loan, we vouched for someone else. Hence, the execution is coming, so we can't pay, so we go in. There are also many purchases, so there are similar problems. And lastly, if you really want this country to develop, which you claim, if you really want the brotherhood to come and bring peace in this country, you need to be more careful not to let the new Travel events happen, what happened in the Validebagan. If you're in power, power should always be giving, not assertive, not attacking people. And you need to give the mayor's statement the answer. My respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0052par0504	Thank you, Mr. Light. Against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Mr. Recep is a member of the Isparta Special. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0053par0508	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against the group proposal given by the People's Democratic Party. Of course, prison is a situation no one wants to be in, no one wants to be in. Of course, no matter how much we improve the circumstances, even in the comfort of a five-star hotel, you're taking away human freedom, which is the most fundamental feature, so we need to be sensitive about... There's no problem in prisons, we're not in a zero-problem approach, but no one can claim that the conditions of prisoners and prisoners in prison are worse than before 2002, when they compare the situation before 2002 and the current situation. Many rights... we passed a new law here in 2005. There's a very detailed explanation of how the execution will take place... We were even subjected to criticisms such as: "You have made a very detailed provision of materials, why do you need it? " Then, for the sake of argument, let's make every item in detail so that we don't leave any initiative in the hands of the enforcers, so that the enforcer doesn't squander it in his hand, not leave it in interpretation. No matter how perfect we make the situation, there are some errors in the application, I'm afraid. No one wants a prisoner in prison to be taken into action in contempt, not in the honor of humanity. None of us approves. Even if you dig up the most vicious criminal, the prisoner in prison, you'll find a human being underneath it. There's a power that rejects all actions in a manner that violates human dignity, there's a party, but bringing in some of the mistakes in practice and pretending that's the general practice in prisons here, and it seems a little unfair to me to come here and talk about some of the wrong practices that have been done to juvenile prisoners in prison, and to talk about them. Here, something concrete, if you know anything about it, share it with the bride, and we'll go as an AK PARTY. Look, the principal who tortured Engin Cheber ▪ was sentenced to life imprisonment. So, in no time, the warden, who was tortured and abused in prison, was not covered by the manager, and whoever was doing the wrong thing, went after him personally. Yeah, well, right now, they've got prisons that are over capacity because they've been held too many prisoners. There are 15 in the barracks, 20 in the barracks. We have to improve the physical conditions of this, we have to. Prison construction quickly needs to be closed down and transferred to large cities in campus-shaped prisons. In that sense, prison construction continues. Of course, the main thing -- my brother Bulent, who just spoke on behalf of the group -- expressed that our people shouldn't enter the prison, but once they've entered the prison, they should be treated as useful individuals to society, not to commit crimes again. Prison is not the base of a terrorist organization, not the headquarters, not the prison. When a person goes in there, they come out worse, unaccompanied to society. Bringing it to society must be the main thing. In society... now, there's something about my brother who just spoke for the CHP who's been there, who's been beaten, tortured, who's going to die. So if you've got a number like this, you've got to talk about something that's common, and you've got a lot of people who've been tortured, and you've got to use it, but we'll talk about it like it's a common practice.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0054par0514	Travel, see things.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0053par0515	You're being unfair, you're being unfair. Look, here, we brought in a world of provisions that we put in the penal system, the CMC, the evacuation of sick prisoners in prison with materials, the benefit of the judicial control system, a world right here. Back in the day, when prison inmates couldn't speak their native language, we lifted that ban again. This is not a favour that has been given to you -- but a surrender that is late, and we are never seeking to make a policy out of it. If there's a really bad practice in prison, you know, bring in the investigations you know, and we'll go over it together, no one can stand behind these bad practices, and we can't stop. If there's a shortage of executives in the sense of a number of appliances, let's conduct the necessary investigation, the administrative and legal investigation, and let them do their time. We don't want anyone to take the authority they don't get from the law, and we don't want them to have any fun practices. Since our agenda is clear today, I'm afraid we won't be able to vote against you, sir, and I'm offering you all my compliments.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0055par0520	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0056par0521	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit02spe0055par0522	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit03spe0055par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the People's Democratic Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All in favor... Those who don't agree... [[The AK PARTY ranks have a, there are voices; there are no, there are no voices from CHP and HHP rows, there are no voices.]] They didn't get along again, so I'm voting with the electronics. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit03spe0057par0008	You're trying harder, but unfortunately...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit03spe0055par0009	No, I'm not trying, I'm just trying to work if we're not working, so let's just know that if we're not working, I don't like swinging.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit03spe0058par0010	Mr. President, today is very important, we have to work today; I have a speech.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit03spe0059par0011	That's because Bünyamin has a speech.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit03spe0055par0012	I'm not objecting to anything. I mean, they didn't get along... we're voting, you're not coming, brother. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] No. Yeah, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0055par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 16th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In the second vote of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, the decision was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to make a decision. Unacceptable. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting Wednesday (11/2014), I would like to submit our group's following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On May 7, 2013, on May 7, 2013, in order to determine the measures that should be taken by the Kütahya MP Ali Ilm and his friends, who we have given to the head of the TBM, 2013, and on October 23, 2014, in order to determine "the issues that should be taken by the graduates of Ziat and veterinary schools," and on May 8, 2013, 2013, 2013, 2013/12631, 2013, 2013, 2013/12631, and TBM President, the issues that we have submitted to the head of the Adana MP Ali Halaman and his friends to investigate the issues of the peace engineers should be taken into consideration of the Parliament on Wednesday (11). In favour of the National Party of Action Group's proposal, Mr. Alim Ilton of Kütahya, please come in.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0060par0018	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0055par0019	Sir, wait a minute... Congressmans, I'll have some of you outside, make noise in 40 minutes, have some tea, then be here in 40 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0061par0022	Mr. President, I have pledged on behalf of my group that the three parliamentary research proposals that Mr. Court clerks have just read have been jointly proposed by MPs of the National Movement Party Party Group to investigate the problems involving agricultural engineers and veterinary physicians. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we all know that the profession of agricultural engineering, one of the most popular professions of the 1980s and 1990s, and the practice of veterinary medicine, unfortunately, in the past ten, fifteen years, the government's wrong agricultural policies and economic policies in the present situation, are facing very serious problems. The agricultural profession is one of the most important professions in which people need food. One of the main members of this profession is the agricultural engineering profession. Also, vets in the field of animalism, again, fishing technology and water products engineers in the area related to water products, form groups of people who are dealing with problems in this group in almost the same way. Dear lawmakers, I think it would be wise for us to consider the problems of engineers working in this field together by first identifying the situation in which agriculture has fallen. In particular, the wrong agricultural policies that have been implemented in the past decade have unfortunately caused today's plantable farmland to decrease around 3 million hectares, and many productions in this area have also declined. Of course, the precious representatives of the ruling party came from time to time and supported agriculture this much in 2002, while today this support was raised to this much. From time to time, they gave many of the talks they boasted highly about. But it's true that no farmer in the world can go and ask for loans from the Agriculture Bank or agricultural loan co-ops, and not in Turkey. So the fact that these credit numbers have gone up is not a sign that agriculture is getting better, but rather, it should be considered a sign that agriculture is getting worse, and it should be made in the beginning. We need to remember the fact that thousands of farm workers are on the run from their homes today because they can't pay their debt to agricultural loans and agriculture banks on time. If he goes home, these people know he's going to go to the right prison, where he's going to be held by the police, or the police, or the gendarmes, by the prosecutor's decision. I'd like to share this problem with you once in a while, underlineing it. Of course, the growing number of universities has naturally led to the increasing number of schools, and the number of agricultural faculty, which were around 10 in the 90s, has now increased to over 30. In universities established in the last few years, there have been nearly 10, and as soon as the universities are established, they have started recruiting students, today has led to the graduate of around 45,000 new agricultural engineers from these schools, thus adding new ones to the existing 20-25000 unemployed agricultural engineers. Unfortunately, the Minister of Agriculture has had to express that several agricultural engineers and veterinary physicians, or others, who have been on television programmes before the election, have announced that he would declare the positions of professions that I had just expressed, and that despite his commitment, the demands have been forwarded to the Finance Ministry, and that the Finance Ministry has responded negatively to this, and that he cannot recruit these staffs. When you asked the Ministry of Finance, did the Ministry of Agriculture ask for such a staff? Unfortunately, the Finance Ministry also expressed that these demands did not reach them, causing our colleagues, agriculture engineers, to be confused as to which of the two ministries were telling the truth. So first of all, we would like to share with you once again the demands of at least 6,500 of agricultural engineers currently unemployed because there is a serious lack of engineers in this area. Many of my fellow agricultural engineers have been closely followed by the fact that these professions have contributed greatly to the employment and development of agriculture. Another important problem is that agricultural engineers employed as part of a project known as the Agricultural Spring Development Project or simply the TARGEL Project have no right to use their social rights, such as gravel, permit and so on, and that vets themselves have to prepare the physical environment they need in their own field of work, and that other colleagues, staffed colleagues, in many cases, will be able to do what they do with the money they spend on their own pockets. Another important issue, 4/B, is that if some agricultural engineers, who are contractually employed at the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, have switched to other staffs or other staffs in other areas because they have high KPS scores, unfortunately, the staff they occupy remain empty and there are delays in appointing new ones. We also think that this is a significant benefit for discipline. Dear lawmakers, another important issue is, of course, the fact that the unemployment of agricultural faculty graduates is not filled with the fact that the quotas for some parts of the agricultural faculty today have not been filled. For example, there are only enough new students in plant protection, garden, field plants and agricultural economies, but few students, such as zootechni, soil, biosystem engineering, agricultural machinery or watering departments, are present today without filling the quotas the universities have declared. One of the most important reasons is that the graduates of this department, unfortunately, do not have the rewards of the staff announced by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Therefore, the Ministry must also observe this balance in the distribution of agricultural faculty graduates, both contractual and permanent staffed. Otherwise, if these episodes continue like this, in the near future, they'll have to close down because they can't find any more students. I'd like to share this with you in particular. On the other hand, according to the Farmer's Recording System, there is nothing understandable about the employment of a limited number of agricultural engineers -- when we evaluate it with businesses that are out of record and on record today. It must be discussed in this period of time. On the other hand, the agriculture engineers who still work under the Ministry of Agriculture, unfortunately, have had to work with lower salaries than other colleagues, other engineers, and I still have to share with you the fact that there are a large number of engineers involved in the ministry, in fashion terms, or psychological abuse. Another issue, some improvements or compensations in the line of duty, unfortunately, do not reflect on the pensioners of agricultural engineers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Once again, I share with you the need to resolve this problem, and I expect your support in our motion. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0062par0038	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Bünyamin Uzbek. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0063par0042	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you, too. In particular, I want to tell you how important it is to talk after my college teacher, Alim Hoxha.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0064par0044	Just join us, Mr. Bünyamin. It's okay if you agree with what we say.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0063par0045	The agricultural sector is the most important sector for our country, both socially and economically. Despite radical reforms, projects and studies in agriculture, our country's agriculture, despite the global financial crises and droughts, grew up in nine of the last decade and broke the record of the half century. As a result of these studies, in 2002, our country was ranked 11th in the world and 4th in Europe, while in 2013 it was ranked seventh in the world, and in Europe it was ranked number 1 in the first. Our country is the leader in seven agricultural productions around the world, the first in 31 products, the top in five in agricultural exports, and the top five in 21 products. From 36 billion euros in domestic revenues to 112 billion euros during our AK PARTY administrations. The per capita income in the agricultural sector was $1,064 in 2002, while the EC PARTY government reached up to $4,000. Agricultural exports have increased by 4 times, reaching $16 billion. The amount of agricultural support distributed to our farmers for free reached $1.9 billion in 2002, reaching $9 billion in 2014. The agricultural sector has made significant progress in the process, as a result of nearly 60 billion cash supports and projects launched during our government.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0065par0048	Congressman, the agricultural sector is bankrupt, the peasant is devastated.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0063par0049	I'm telling you, if you'll listen.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0066par0050	We're listening, we're listening, and I'm wondering what country in which per capita agricultural income is up to $4,000.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0063par0051	Dear deputy, if you look at the improvements in agriculture in 2002 and the improvements in agriculture in 2014, you'll see what happens.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0067par0052	It's not Turkey!
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0063par0053	We're talking $1,064, we're talking $4,000; $1,064 is big, $4,000 is big, and I'm giving you his appreciation.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0067par0055	This isn't Turkey!
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0063par0056	In addition to the improvements mentioned above, the country's agriculture, sustainable prosperity, has become an industry by raising quality, standard, and the level of life in the countryside. In the last ten years, from 1960 to today, the agricultural sector has been inexhaustiblely growing in fifty-three years. The effective agricultural policies implemented have increased investments in the agricultural sector, provided with support, incentive mechanisms and ease for investors.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0068par0058	How much for the milk, milk?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0063par0059	In 2012, it provided significant incentives as part of the general incentive system and regional incentive system, with investments in the agriculture and food sector, within the framework of renewed and expanded investments, state aid and decision-making. The limits set under the regional incentive system include integrated animal investments, food products and beverage production, water products breeding, including fish cubs and eggs, cold storage services, licensed storage, greenhouse investments. Dear friends, from 2003 to 2014, the KPSS concluded that the central deployment of our Ministry... Look, listen here, my dear friends, by 2002, there were 6,357 agricultural engineers at the Ministry of Agriculture. In our time of power, 9,165 people were taken and reached 15,474 people.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0069par0062	Twelve years, twelve.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0063par0063	Eighty years had passed until 2002.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0070par0064	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0063par0065	Yeah. The rate of increase has been 143 percent in the agro-engineer purchase. Look, my dear friends, since the Department of Agriculture couldn't provide jobs for students who graduated from agricultural engineering in 1997, agricultural engineers started as teachers, let's not forget that. They couldn't get jobs at the Department of Agriculture, so agricultural engineers who finished college started working as teachers in 1997. We've increased by 143 percent by buying 9,165 agricultural engineers. As a food engineer -- look, it's a very funny number -- there were 181 food engineers working at the Ministry of Agriculture, 181, and today it has risen to 1,561. What's the rate of increase? 762 percent.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0070par0067	They sold fake honey to the minister in your day, leave it.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0063par0068	Fishing has increased 514 per cent, 162 per cent in water products engineering.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0070par0069	Fish farms are closing, men can't get bait.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0071par0070	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0063par0071	Dear friends, a total of 23,000 personnel increased during the AK PARTY administrations. In addition, in our ministry-related institutions, the Ataturk Forest Farms, such as TEGEM, has also been made purchases, 10,982 purchases; on the other hand, 12,000 certified agricultural advisers work in private sectors, 20,000 people in private food companies, 2,600 people in water products. Perhaps you could say: "What is the Ministry of Agriculture from private sectors to the Ministry of Agriculture?" was encouraged by the Ministry of Agriculture to provide private sector incentives to employ agricultural engineers, food engineers, veterinary physicians. This is an expression of where our Ministry of Agriculture has come from in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0070par0072	He works for minimum wage, boys.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0063par0073	There are now 1,967 vets in our ministry.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0072par0074	Fill 'em up, fill 'em up, fill 'em up.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0063par0075	There are 2,185 deficits of engineers, that's correct. As with other ministries, very few of us have these explanations in our Ministry. Hopefully in March, we'll make such purchases in April. We know what it means in the agricultural sector, especially in cities like Bayburt, in cities that live on agriculture, whose economy is based on agriculture. Dear friends, because of the support of agriculture, our city, Bayburt, which emigrated until 2002, has now become immigrant. In this development move in agriculture, 101 million TL was invested in our Bayburt. In the past 11 years, 10 agricultural business facilities have been established with the aid of 50% of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting, and have made serious contributions to our province's economy. On the other hand, nearly 11,260 hectares of agricultural land have been watered by the completed ironsus dam. A collection of nearly 20,000 hectares of land, including 16 villages, has been launched to include the ironsus Dam's watering site. At the same time, there will be land collections in the Masat Watering System. Bayburt is one of the two counties in both the DOC and the DAP at the same time. In addition, projects such as the $27m Bayburt-Silver-Rize Country Development Project and the 115m TL Rehab Project were launched to be implemented in our province. Our farmers have been freed from the burden of interest, and through the Agriculture Bank and Agriculture Loan Co-ops, our farmers are given loans for up to seven years to invest in livestock and irrigation, with zero interest. In the past 12 years, the amount of business and agricultural investment loans used by agricultural co-ops in our province is 11 million TL. Dear friends, we see the benefits of this in the election. Look, last time, Recep Tayyip Erdogan voted 80 per cent in the 10 August presidential election. Bayburt is a poor region, an eastern province.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0073par0081	They're going to Istanbul for him. They can't eat bread at Bayburtt.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0063par0082	If they didn't consent to the EC PARTY, they wouldn't have voted 80% for Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Bayburt is a province without the actions of travel. Bayburt has 63% support for the AK PARTY in the 2011 election... Look, even when your mayor was going to the polls, he said, "May God keep Recep Tayyip Erdogan alive." He said, in the elections, in the villages. So, as MP of an 80 per cent-voted province, we see where agriculture is coming from in Turkey, where agriculture has come from. It's one of our most successful ministries. I'd like to thank the entire Department of Agriculture staff, especially our Minister.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0074par0085	In favour of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, Mr. İlhan Demiröz. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0075par0088	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate the problems and solutions of the nationalist Movement Party, agricultural engineers in our country, veterinary physicians. I salute our colleagues, citizens, who watch us on television with respect and love. I'm an agricultural engineer. I'm proud of my profession, my colleagues, and I'm proud of it. I know that unemployment rates are high in veterinary doctors, food engineers, water products as well as in each professional group (EC PARTY) but it's not the problem of our colleagues, it's the government's problem. Why the government's problem? I want to draw a picture of agriculture right away, and let's see what point it brings to agriculture in 12 years. Turkey is right, as my friends say, is a country of agriculture. Agriculture is extremely important for our country in social, economic and political terms; it is a food and bar industry; it contributes 8 per cent to national income; it contributes 25 per cent to employment. What's so important is that because of the wrong policies in this agriculture sector, farmers and farm workers are finished. I want to make it very clear that, by government, agriculture has been destroyed by the hand of the government. In the early 2000s, we see that there are less than 2 million farmers living on agriculture today. Again, we see that the rate, which is 36 per cent of agriculture in 2002, has reached 23 per cent today. In the last 11 years, the GDP has grown by 5 per cent annually, while the growth rate in agriculture has been 2.3%, friends. 3 million hectares of agriculture have been abandoned, but the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting rents land from Sudan. Who's gonna work here, what's he gonna grow? Don't they have farmland in Turkey that will provide that rate? I'd like to express that in particular. Dear lawmakers, in the last 11 years, we are net exporters in the foreign trade of food products called agricultural products, and net importers in the foreign trade of agricultural raw materials. After we draw this framework, after we reveal the collapse of agriculture, we can all see that we don't have valuable colleagues from field to table, that we don't have high unemployment rates, that this government does not have an agricultural policy, that the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism does not produce any policy that is facing forward by producing everyday policies. In livestock, our veterinary friends, zootechni agriculture engineers, in other areas, agriculture economies, agricultural structures, irrigation, we need these friends, but we don't have those friends in these areas today. Why can't he function? Because the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has abandoned our friends. And I'd like to highlight this in particular: yes, there have been a lot of agricultural schools recently, and we know that there are at least ten chapters in each faculty. But you're the one who opened these schools, this government, and as of the beginning of 2014, 28 percent of 35 universities have agricultural faculty, my friends. Of course, when you put out the parts of this, we see that it's going to go up a lot. Dear friends, I'd like to address my agricultural engineer friends, veterinary engineers, food engineers, my friends in the water products: I raised a question to the Finance Ministry when I conducted work on the Plan and Budget Commission, and I said: "There are 20,270 empty staff at the Ministry of Agriculture and Animalry. Is it true? The Minister of Finance said: "It is true. " Well, how will the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism protect or use these positions? He can use these staffs to buy from the Treasury Department, if possible. I want my colleagues to put that aside, 20,270 spare staff. So, I asked Mr. Finance Minister one more thing in the same Plan Budget, and I said, "Is this the right number?" He said, "Is this the right number?" Well, 34,500 is about the appointment of valuable friends, police, doctor, nurse, graduates, those in need. How many digits are left? 40 grand. From here we'd like to address the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting: Please make an effort from 40,000 staff to be given to the agricultural engineers, veterinarians, food engineers, water products engineers, which I've just counted of at least 13,000 staff. I'd like to say in particular that there's a law proposal that we, the Republican People's Party, have made. So, I'd like to say that the esteemed MPs, we have an empty staff, and 40,000 others, we have a staff that we can use, but Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petty, is not looking this way, he's not looking at our colleagues. What I'm saying is that today we'd like to show you where our friends from field to table are at the point where food safety comes in. There are 640,000 businesses in Turkey, friends, I repeat, 640,000. Who are we controlling this with? We're checking with 5,000 agricultural engineers, food engineers. How can we control it? There are 20,200 businesses in Bursa. The number of agricultural engineers in the Agricultural County Directorate has controlled this. Then I'd like to express who and how to do the task of enlightening our people about how cheap a kilogram of meat or how cheap a sausage is. I would like to stress in particular why there is no study of food and no study of occupational health while such sensitive work is being done on business safety. My dear friends, if there is a planned program, a permanent and sustainable agricultural programme, I would like to express to you that it is important for our friends to have employment opportunities and that they will be required if they are put to work. And I'd like to address our dear friends here who are watching us on TV: Precious agricultural engineers, veterinarians, food engineers, water products engineer friends; a commission is being set up in parliament to discuss your problems, but the AKP members say no. I'd like you to give them the answer in 2015. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0076par0101	How many engineers were taken on your takeover?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0077par0102	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Ramazan Can is a member of the Kırıkkale MP against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Yes, Mr. Can, please.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0078par0106	Yes, thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the MHP group proposal, and I hereby salute the General Assembly. Turkey has made significant improvements in agriculture, compared with previous periods. We see the agricultural sector as a fundamental strategic sector in the development of Turkey, rather than as a social policy area, as predicted, rather than as a social policy area where the income of our citizens in rural areas is provided. The first agricultural law was adopted during our time, and 14 fundamental laws, such as agricultural insurance law, tobacco and food law, land protection law, land law, organic agriculture law, the law of manufacturers, the Law on Biosecurity, were passed on the Assembly General Assembly. With these laws, what are the basic paradoxes of agriculture? What are the targets? What is efficiency in production? What are we gonna do today? What should we do tomorrow? What's the real state of agriculture in the world conjunctive? What is the status of the agricultural strategy in Turkey? With these laws, we put it into practice. There's been talk of wrong agricultural policies, the collapse of agriculture. For God's sake, 12 years ago, 7.5 million farmers in Turkey were processing 24 million hectares of land and a total of 23 billion dollars. That's our agricultural product. Among 190 countries, we were ranked 11th. In Europe, we were number four after Italy, France, and Spain. As a result, when we arrived in 2011 with the agricultural policies of the EC PARTI, we were ranked seven places in the world between 190 countries, and France, Italy, and Spain, to the 1st place in Europe. Our total cut is $62 billion. Where's $23 billion, $62 billion? So where did we get it from in the agriculture industry, where did we bring it? This is the measurement. With this price -- as I have just stated -- we have risen to the seventh place in the 11th place. We are the first agricultural producers of Europe. Twelve years ago, our exports of agriculture were $4 billion, and now we've hit $20 billion. Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, Mr. Bünyamin Uzbek, explained the comparison to the employment of agricultural engineers and veterinarians in the Ministry of Agriculture and in the ministry of Sair in 2002 and 2014, as of today's day, to our Bayburt MP, Mr. Bünyamin Uzbek. I agree with his explanations exactly. I especially want to say that students who are raised at the university themselves... if the state needs, of course, an agricultural engineer, a vet, a food engineer, but just to see the state as a business gate is abuse, populism. Governments will take the need, but when our universities are raising students, rather than governments, how do you invest in private, free markets, how do you invest in this mentality? (The student will give it to his students, not only as an employment site, but as an investor in private enterprises, we have to carve that mentality into the memory of our students. On the other hand, I finished law school. Law school graduates, you know, they can be judges, they can be lawyers, they can be employed in public, but law school graduates also work as lawyers on the free market. A lawyer who works with a public defender in the free market earns more from a lawyer who is in charge of his work, both in terms of his future and in terms of public service, and in terms of the value of his contribution to himself and his environment, of course, the lawyer who works in the free market earns more. We need to instill that mentality in all our universities and students. Of course, if necessary as the last word -- the state needs to meet the need, but we've done the damage together in the past years, there's no use to populism, and there's no harm to what's being employed to our student. In the past, we've all been through the practices, the damage. From now on, I hope our students and universities will pay more attention in this area. The agenda is intense, and the group's proposal for the intensity of the agenda is appreciated by the General Assembly, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0079par0114	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0080par0117	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit04spe0079par0118	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Serker, Mr. Ören, Mr. Özer, Mr. Acar, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Guler, Mr. Logogoğlu, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Korturk, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Özdemir. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0079par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call before the nationalist movement group's proposal was voted was not enough. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. If I tell you to be here in 40 minutes, be here in 40 minutes, Reverend. So you keep dropping my word. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Wednesday 19/11/2014 (now), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. In order to ensure that the Turkish Parliament's agenda of the Grand National Assembly be taken into the ranks of the Law Bills and Proposals and other Affairs from the Commissions, 649th and 650th rows of the 650th and 650th rows of the Law Bills, and that the order of other tasks will be established according to that order, Manisa MP Hasan Ören and 21 lawmakers will continue their talks in the Turguedial Rye area until November 649th and 650th, with the proposal for the removal of the Nikel mines of the trees and the destroyed forests and surrounding areas. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr. Hasan Ören, MP of Manisa. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In the meantime, I'd love it if we could stop humming in the General Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0081par0028	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's group proposal. I salute you all. It has been impossible to download the contract to Parliament since November 4th, under the decision that we sent the construction workers to the Foreign Commission on employees of the mines, to the chairmanship of the Turkish Parliament and to be approved by you. As the Republican People's Party, we continue to insist that this law on those who lost their lives in the mines, that the ILO Convention be brought down to the General Assembly immediately and signed, but unfortunately you still haven't brought it to Parliament's agenda in the coming days. My dear friends, whatever we bring to you from here on the commission of commissions, you're pushing back the issues we want to be investigated with these research commissions. We suffered a lot in 2014. We lost 301 children in the Soma mining accident. Then came Ermenek, and we lost 18 citizens in Ermenek, and still six of our friends in the mine. We've said it many times. Let three of our MPs, Manisa MPs, set up a research commission on Soma accidents. When you said, you were dealing with other things, and you didn't allow the commission to be established, but when a disaster like this happened to us, you immediately approved the establishment of the commission when the eyes of the entire world were turned into Soma. That's right, I wish you'd said yes to the research commission that three MPs had already given us. Maybe we could've stopped our 301 citizens from handing over their lives in these mines. Now, here's another important thing... this tragedy in Soma, followed by a thousand olive trees in the village of Yrca, and you can't understand your hostility towards green, your disregard for green. The tree massacre in the district of Turgutlu, Manisa. I'll remove nickels with sulfuric acid in the Turgutlu district of Manisa. We'll do everything we can to get it out. We must protect our followers. With their understanding, you have cut down 200,000 trees in this area, allowing them to be cut down. The trees here are 35 years old, 40 years old. You allow hundreds of thousands of trees to be cut down again, along with the last one prepared to continue the tree massacre, which was released on October 29th. My dear friends have identified the efficiency of the land in the Gediz basin, where the first-class soil was erosioned in 1970, and have planted 1 million 971,000 trees. Now those trees are 35, 40, 50 years old. You slaughtered 200,000 of them, let them be slaughtered. Now, we're going to cut down hundreds of thousands of trees. You're saying, "Ooh," and you're confirming the CED report. The City Department approved the CED report on October 29th. The trees you cut down here are 35-40-year-old trees. Trees eight inches tall, not within 200,000, when you count them, you let them slaughter 400,000, 500,000 trees. Now, in the last period, I said, "Friends, let's set up the research commission, let's go, let's see, where Turgutlu's Mountain is, where there's first-class lands, let's have this research commission do a search. If this 35-40-year-old commission will allow us to cut down our 50-year-old trees, then there's really no harm in opening hellholes like this on first-class farmland. Then let's decide together that this nickel should be removed by hand. What did you do? Just as you rejected the common motion issued by the Soma Commission by the three MPs, you rejected the motion we gave you. My dear friends, the Soma Commission worked for seven hours straight yesterday. There's no money, no money, no expenses in the establishment of the commissions. You're talking about AR-GE in Turkey when it comes to it, and you're saying to the industrialist, "Build more technological goods with RD, make more exports, more money." Well, what is the RD of this Assembly, doesn't this Assembly need to build RD? These commissions are RD. We met for seven hours yesterday, we talked, and after seven hours, we're trying to capture a certain amount of common sense, a common point about the mines. Now, what do you see in the creation of the factory of 18 million tons of sulfuric acid in the first-class land, where 200,000 trees will be cut down, these hellholes will be opened? Well, if we're right, why don't you lift your finger as a Manisa MP in the establishment of this commission? Once he's there, it's over in this room. So, the Manisa MPs are like this, but are the ministers different? Former Forest Minister Osman Pepe is on television, saying: "If I had seen that the nickel mine in Turgutlu was a project of respect for human health and environment, I would have signed under it. " They ask, is it harmful to human health and environment? If it were not harmful, I would have already signed it. They couldn't bend my wrist. He also called it a challenge. It's not a challenge, it's a challenge. And then we ask Veysel Eroglu, who came in later, and we say, "Did you sign this? The former Minister doesn't accept, and the new Minister doesn't." He says, "I didn't." Yeah, they're right, this project doesn't feel right either, but it feels good in someone. Who's it in for? You can't give away all the mining licenses without my knowledge. The Prime Minister of yesterday is attracted to today's President. My dear friends, I took them to the Environmental Commission. You see that violence? Right now, we're only exporting $600 million of raisins from here. There can be such violence! Why don't you want this commission set up? Let's set up this commission, let's go check it out. If you say yes, or reverse the question: this nickel mine does not harm here. If you say so, there's no problem. This country needs mine, this country needs agriculture and industry. But such a savage, so unfeeling... I know your hearts hurt, your hearts ache, how can you cut down a 50-year-old tree? You cut down 50 trees, not 100 trees, 200,000 trees, and now the Department of Urbanization approved CED to cut down hundreds of thousands of trees. We're gonna look for all our legal rights. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I want to end with these words: When all the trees are cut down, when all the animals are dead, when all the water is dirty, when the air becomes breathless, you will understand that money is not edible, Mr. AKP MPs.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0082par0043	Thank you, Mr. Kören. Against Republican People's Party Group proposal, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0083par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. As People's Democratic Party, I salute you all. I want to make it clear that I was a member of the Mining Research Commission established by Parliament in 2010, and we went to Mount Çal, and we studied it in the area where this nickel mine was, and we saw it in its place, and as the motion states, the CED report is actually very clear -- it's 15 meters high, 20 meters wide, it's 150 meters long -- and then they pile up on it, and then it's called sulfuric acid, mining method. There is, indeed, such a beautiful nature that there are greenery, treasure fields, villages, and settlements. We said, "Ya, how did you get this license?" Yes, the government is here, and I'm asking. This permit was granted at a very special time and a very special request from a British Royal Family company. 2005, 2006. Who was it then? We weren't in this Parliament yet; there was no MHP, there was no HDP, there was no BDP. There were two parties, AK PARTY, CHP. Now, check your memory, look, look at the registration date at that time, what happened historically in Turkey? The British Royal Family has raided... remember well, my friends. Was the Queen here? Did the royals come here? Was there a special gesture? So many acres of treasure land, so many acres of forest, so many acres of land in a signature, could that be so cool, could it be? And then it really hurt. We looked at the Gediz River from there. It's flowing too close, 15 kilometers, Gediz Delta. And the Gediz Delta was so sad that I would call it the grape of Manisa, the fig of Aydın, the pomegranate of Izmir, what shall we call it? It is the most beautiful pomegranate in the season. In İzmir, the pomegranate of Izmir is beautiful this time of year. Of course, his olives, all of them, I'll tell you this, but you should know that 10 percent of Turkey's most efficient delta is here in terms of agriculture, but with this sulfuric acid factory, with this sulfuric acid, with this poison, the Gediz Delta and the river, you can all call it your life. As there is that region, agriculture, economics, these cities, life, living things, greenery, vegetation, it's all going to be a waste. It's a shame. We were just discussing the Forestry Ministry budget, and we're on our way. Look, we used to burn oak forests every once in a while. Mr. Minister, because of this security, you're burning the forest. I'd say, Mr. Hasip, the strongest tree is oak; it's burned, and it comes out of its roots again. Let me be clear to you, as a friend of yours in that research, when this mine works, even these acorns will no longer grow in Gediz Delta and in the Plain. Look, the strongest tree is an acorn, not even the strongest acorn will grow. You will be longing for grapes, for pomegranates, for figs, for food, for olives, for air, for water. Not only that, but other than that, you're going to tear down the nests of birds, friends, the nests of birds. To make a British company rich, you'll dig, cut down 2 million trees -- you've already cut down enough trees -- then the environmental organisations will come, and the TEMAECEP will come, and all the platforms of environmental organization in the Aegean will come, and you won't understand. Come on, we get it, then, did the queen come, who came from the royals, but who's here these days, for God's sake? This new addition, the expansion of space for cutting down the new 2 million trees, where did that come from? Look, we came to the Targut Chamber of Commerce after the investigation. Here, I respect and salute the honorable resistance and honor of the Turtle people. All the parties were in that room, and the AK PARTY was in the district, and the MP, and the MHP, and my party at the time -- it was at the time -- the representatives of my party, and me as the MP. They all agreed. Oh, for God's sake, the whole party, all the county organizations, all the industrial rooms, all the civil society, everybody's coming together. Then why do you want to spill poison and breathe it? Why are you doing this in the interest of some corporations, global capital? You steal the Mount, you make it ring, you make it ring, you make it ring in broad daylight, you make it ring with tamtams, you make it ring, you make it ring, you make it ring, you make it sing, you make it sing, you make it ring, you make it ring, you make it ring, you make it ring, you make it ring, you make it ring, you make it ring, you make it ring, you make it ring, you make it ring, you make it ring, you see, you make it ring, you make it ring, you see it ring, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, You're having a global company steal the Play Mountain from one of the British companies. I ask you: Can a company from Turkey go and do this in a mine where Buckingham Palace is in London, where there are those greens of Scotland? Can a company of yours do that in any European country? He can't, he can't, they'll make you do it, you! Because they know the truest thing about colonialism, my friends. Look, I'll tell you this: Chief Seattle said a lot of things, but he has a sentence that I really like, he says: "Every part of this land is sacred to my people." It's part of my people's memories and hundreds of years of experiments. Remember, what happens to other creatures today happens to people tomorrow. Now I ask you, for God's sake, 25 kilometers from Izmir, 25 kilometers from the beautiful Izmir. Look, you're going to poison the bays, four lagoons and bird heaven Under the Salt of Pine, 40,000 hectares, or wet ecosystems of Gediz Delta, and you're going to open the nickel mine of Mount Çiz, and you're going to run its waste in liquid form, and you're going to throw its waste into Gediz Delta. And then you're going to destroy ten farmlands in our country, and then the world-class olives, grapes, all this nickel acid, all this product, and then imports, exports will be banned, and very soon 153 tons of sulfur fog and sulfuric acid will be in the waters of the region. When our people are mingled in the waters of the region, and our people are poisoned, and our fish are poisoned, and our fruit is dried, and our fruit is dried, and this nickel mine will be shut down for fifteen years, and it will go away with its boots, but all the Aegean Deltas will weep with blood, and the birds will not be able to fly, and your grapes, and your olives, and your figs, and your life will be extinguished. If this Congress can't get together for this, friends, we don't need to be together for anything. Believe me, it's the easiest way to colonize a country, they're doing it. Let's stand up to it, let's set up a bride's commission, let's do the right thing, I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0084par0061	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0085par0065	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I took a pledge in favour of the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate the environmental impacts of the nickel mine set up in the Manisa Turgutlu Sil Mountain region. I salute you all. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to say that in the 23rd term in 2008, and in this 24th term in 2013, on 18 April 2013, as the National Movement Party, we had submitted a motion to investigate the environmental impacts of this nickel mine on Turgutian Çal Mt. But these motions, you know, they're always rejected for various reasons by the power and you'll probably reject them. But, my dear friends, in order to accept these motions of our research, do we have to have mass killings, mass killings, then... 50, 100, God forbid, when more people lost their lives, we were able to set up the Soma mining commission in a rush and panic, in a guilty psychology. The Plan and Budget Commission now considers the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. There's a very good book of presentations, such green forests, trees, beautiful nature, and water, and life, he says. If there's forest, there's water, yes, there's life. So, what do we have here, dear friends? Why don't you put this on? This is a view of the Turgutian Mount Nickel Mine. It's embarrassing, horrible, murder and slaughter. Let the Minister of Forestry and Water say in his next budget book: We have a song of children, a long string of axes, and we go to the forest. From now on, we wish we could see these images of this mountain nickel mine as a reality in these presentations. Some friends smile, maybe they don't take it seriously, but really the nature of Manisa, our country, the forests, the trees, and the water is ruined, and the future centuries are blackened. It is one of the most important farmlands in the world and our country, and it is located in the middle of the Gediz basin. The average 10 per cent of agricultural production in Turkey is happening in this region, and the plains produce the world's finest grapes, olives, cherries and strawberries and other products. Turgutlu is estimated to have 12 kilometers and 40 million tons of nickel reserves, and the market value is $6 million worth of valuable friends. There's gonna be a ten-year run here, tops. Maybe two or three billion dollars in export revenues, but for a ten-year business, nature, forest and water will be massacred for centuries. It doesn't do the math, it really does the math. Short term, let me make a profit today; let me fill my pockets; it's the result of your understanding of ten years, five years, twenty years from now. However, when we look at the long - term, even the middle - term, economically and financially, the work is extraordinarily wrong. Yeah, no nickel mines, no more modern techniques here or why aren't they brought in? Here we are learning that the second CED report, which was written in early 2014, was approved by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism on 27 October 2014, about the company that was going to extract nickels in an open form on Mount Çiça. I mean, that's stubborn, shame on you! Indeed, this is a disaster. This is an example of poaching disasters, rants, and madness, and there is no other explanation. There's no use in bringing people to our country. It was expressed by previous speakers. It has been stated that the British Royal Family has a company, and now it has changed its third hand, and it appears to be on top of three college boys, but its claims that the company continues to own the company are very convincing. At the time, Mr. Gul, who was then President of the British Royal Family, had an engagement from the British, and Mr. Erdogan will have to wait, won't he, Mr. Ören? Since its impact on the environment is minimal in the world, the high pressure is no longer used in the liquid process. This method is used, which has not been used anywhere else in the world, which we have just shown a photograph of. The Gediz Delta is also a delta protected by Turkey's international wetlands contract. There's no way to understand that an open selection of nickels with sulfuric acid is allowed in Mount Çiç, which is part of the Gediz Delta, which is under international protection. Then why did Turkey sign this contract? This is a violation of the contract. Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu is also aware of the environmental catastrophes of the Çal Mountain Nickel Project. Mr. Minister Osman Pepe, who was before him, was also aware. Mr. Veysel Eroglu -- which he later said he didn't say -- we were under a lot of pressure, we couldn't resist. I mean, it's a really sad situation. The Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs and the Government must explain which pressures you are under. As the National Movement Party, we are also prepared to protect such international, foreign-dominated ministers and governments, so we will protect them from all kinds of pressures and pressures. It was cancelled on April 3, 2009, under the decision of the Manisa Administration Court. Again, on 5 June 2012, woodcuts began and continued quickly, despite the Manisa Administration Court's decision to cancel the Law of Forest Tahsis. So far, about 250,000 trees have been cut down. We're talking about a tree that can reach up to 2 million. It's called three or five olive trees, three or five trees at the Ataturk Forest Farm, three or five trees at the Taxi Travel Park. It's always called three or five trees. This is not a tree of three or five trees; it is a tree that exceeds hundreds of thousands and millions. Also, we're making more. They're saying that it's not true. The one you cut, the one you broke, the one you ripped... You're picking up the greens in downtown Adeta. They asked Nasreddin Hoxha how many stars are there in the sky? What if there are 5 billion stars? If you don't believe it? Now, the government says: I planted 2 billion trees. How do we know, where is the document? If you don't believe me, count it. The government says. We don't believe them, dear friends. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] Let's keep our nature, our nature. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0086par0083	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Manisa MP Selçuk Özdağ opposes the Republican People's Party Group proposal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0087par0087	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group proposal of the Republican People's Party. I salute your high council. Manisa is a historical city, Manisa, a city of ancient history, and a city of recent history; three of the seven churches in the Gospel are in Manisa. At the same time, 17 princes are in Manisa; they have studied, trained, and raised five great sultans. Manisa is also an agricultural city; Manisa is a city that produces 85 per cent of Turkey in grapes, and also contains 20 million of the 177 million olive trees in Turkey. Manisa produces 16 per cent of white meat production; it also produces 14 per cent of egg production, 10 per cent of corn production. Manisa is also an industrial city. With five major industries, Manisa has 50,000 people working at the center. The 6th organised industry is being prepared, its publicisation is finished, 2 organised industries in Turgut, 1 organised industry in Akhisar, 1 organised industry in Salihli, 1 organised industry in Salihli, and another 50,000 people will continue to march and march to 100 per cent with a 50 per cent capacity rate, and now -- God willing -- are in the process of publicizing an organised industry in Soma. The northern Aegean Chandar port is almost finished in 2015, and as soon as this port is finished in 2015, it will be the fifth largest port of Europe, and the first ship will dock here, and 25,000 people will work. On the fast train, İstanbul-Ankara speed train and İstanbul-Ankara-Izmir speed train will be provided with industrial integration along with the Istanbul-Manisa-Izmir highway, and nearly 4 or 5 million people will have met Manisa. In the future, a town of Manisa, which is the center of grapes, the center of cherries, the center of strawberries, the center of olives and olive oil, will, hopefully, be a real Soraya star of both the Aegean (Ege) and Turkey, and I believe, the city, which is the seventh largest exporter, will have the title to be the fourth or fifth largest. Dear lawmakers, we are 5 percent unemployed in Manisa, this is Turkey's 2023 target, and hopefully with what we're about to do, we are in the goal and goal of reducing unemployment to 3 percent. There are also nickel mines here, in Gördes, in Turgutlu, in nickel mines. There is also wind energy here, one of the 244 regions of Turkey, Turgutlu, Fortytree, Akhisar-Bekirs region, and our very serious windmills, wind energy, have been activated. One of the most beautiful regions of Turkey is that we have geothermal in Alaşehir. The geothermal generates electricity with 282 degrees of steam. It's also used in health tourism, in heating. At the same time, there are uranium mines in Manisa. We have about a billion tons of coal in Gördes, and soma. On the one hand, with new thermal plants, with new coal stoves, jobs will be increased in Manisa, and with this employment will be added value; we will make a serious contribution to the well-being of Manisa, Turkey, and Turkey's added value. Dear MPs, Republican People's Party members have proposed a group of proposals here and have said: "Let a research commission be set up, we want research." Until now, there have been 2,664 research requests in the 24th term, opposition and power, more opposition. Do you think this House will work if these commissions are set up? No way. Earlier, the MPs of the Republican People's Party said: "Sir, if our parliamentary inquiry motion had been accepted, there would not have been a mine accident in Soma.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0088par0093	It might not be.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0087par0094	But in 2010, in Turkey, this Parliament issued a parliamentary research motion, together with opposition and power. The mines have been researched here. The presidential State Control Board entered into operation, and after nearly a thousand pages of report, the Employment Health and Occupational Safety Act came out in 2011, which took place in 2012. Were we able to prevent accidents? It's a matter of mentality. It's a matter of culture. It's a matter of training. There's no way we can prevent accidents by simply giving a parliamentary research motion.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0089par0095	Unless you get the mines inspected. Mr. Selçuk, we'd like to go and see what the application is like with the research proposal.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0087par0097	Dear MPs, as for the nickel mine, the nickel mine in Mount Çil... Let me correct the HDP speaker first. This is not a British firm, this is a Turkish company. I'm not a spokesman for any firm. How can we add value to Turkey in the nickel mine, coal mines, uranium, or any other energy, geothermal, how can Turkey get rid of the hegemony of sovereign forces, and how can it get rid of external dependency? I give the word and the fight. They said here: this is a company owned by the British, owned by the Turks, owned by three Turkish children and owned by a company called the NATA Holdings; this is the first one. Secondly, let me correct the speaker of the National Movement Party here, he said: here, in these mines, there will be a revenue of around $6 million. I'm saying investment here. The investment both in Gördes, which is difficult, is an investment of about 700 million dollars. People of CHP remember that a pot made in China could only be delivered to Gördes with 250 wheels in a car brought from Germany. At that time, when this boiler was being brought in, it was closed-liquored, where some MPs wanted to block it. It's an investment of $700 million, and there'll be 1,200 people working. We take all of the nickel mines from outside; we buy them from Greece; we buy from Finland; we buy from America; we buy from England. Shouldn't we work these mines? Coal processing, gold processing, oil mining, natural gas extraction. For God's sake, didn't you ever invest in the Republican People's Party or the National Movement Party, in the time of the Inönu, in the period of Karayalçin, during the Baykal period, during the State Gardened period? You've never built a dam in these investments, you've never done anything, you've never built a college campus, you've never cut down a tree, for God's sake, tell me. So you've never invested, never contributed to development. That's why I'm saying that the precious MPs here are being cut down. It's called trees. The trees were cut down, first learn, 16,000 trees were cut down, and during that time, a single tree was planted under the existing law concerning the trees that had been cut down. So far, this firm has planted 65 thousand trees. At the same time, he paid 6 million dollars a year. Every year, for twenty-five years, 4 million will pay the price of rent and the price of the tree. He'll certainly pay for it. It will be within the laws of this House. My dear friends have planted trees in Gördes, where around 200,000 difficult groups have produced nickel mines, and they pay for them. They're going to employ 1,300 people. Likewise, 500 people will work here in the nickel mines and will earn 250 million dollars each year. Mr. Erkan Akçay, 250 million dollars; that's a huge number. They're gonna run this place for 25 years. The others will be employed for 35 years. It's a long process, and we're going to get a billion-dollar income here. We're taking all of these nickels from abroad in the automotive industry, in the aircraft industry, in the pot industry, in the kitchen industry, even in the cutlery industry. We have to protect the environment, we have to extract coal, we have to generate energy, we have to support wind energy, we have to support renewable energy. Now they say, "No wind energy." So, what's it gonna be? Sir, no thermal power plants either. Well, what's it gonna be?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0090par0102	Solar power plant, solar power...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0087par0103	They say, "Let's go back to solar energy. Let's draw solar energy from the west to the east. There's not much in Antalya, there's not much in Manisa.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0090par0104	Four times what you need, four times what you need.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0087par0105	There is more sun than the sun of Manisa. Turkey is dusty land. We need to find out first. Yes, let's move on to solar energy, let's have the technology of Germany. To do that, we need serious RDs. We're going to take advantage of our wind, we're going to take advantage of our nickels, we're going to take advantage of our coals, we're going to take advantage of our HES, we're going to build our nuclear plants. There's nothing going on in Germany, there's nothing going on in Finland, there's nothing doing in England, while we're... Dear lawmakers, let us now agree that if we are working with technology outside today's modern technology, let's call it a crime complaint together. When it comes to protecting the environment, I'm sensitive to the environment. When I became a congressman, a friend of mine brought me 30,000 fruit trees, and I gave them to another city every year, and this year you became a deputy, and I gave them to you. I took it, and gave it to the citizens in Gördes, or in Demirci, or in Selden. We planted 13 million fruit trees in Manisa, 13 million. It's a terrible number, these precious MPs. I'm closing my words like this, about the water...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0091par0110	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0087par0111	Mr. President, one moment, please...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0092par0112	It says so in CED: 2.5 million tons...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0087par0113	I tell you about the water: we will not use water from the Gediz, nor from the mountains. We'll tell them: "Build the Turgutlu treatment facilities, there are 7 million tons of water, use 3 million tons of water, and water our trees with 4 million tons -- a warm climate with turguts -- and make fruitless trees worth adding to Turkey." I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0093par0117	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0094par0118	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0095par0119	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0093par0120	Now, first, let me ask Mr. Hamzacebi... in order.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0095par0121	Let Mr. Kören speak first, and I'll talk later.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0093par0122	I felt the need to listen to you, of course, as you two stood up together. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0096par0124	According to Article 69 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0093par0125	You mean without you picking on me?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0096par0126	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0093par0127	Here you go. Now, we're trying to get him to be healthy and safe. Don't go to the fire by gas. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0097par0132	Dear MPs, I'm having trouble understanding these Manisa MPs.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0098par0133	You're a Manisa MP.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0097par0134	So these AKP MPs, one of them is going to vouch for Soma. One of them is going to be under 3,000 liras on the grape. Our deputy says, "Let me take it." He says, "I am the guarantor of this mine higher than the number." He says, "I am the guarantor of this mine." And how do you vouch for this mine? This mine cut down 200,000 trees. You haven't read the CED, you still don't know about the new CED. The CED says that we will draw 2.5 million tons of water a year from the Gediz River. The CED says, "We have cut down 200,000 trees, and we will cut down at least 30,000 trees in 100 hectares. The CED says -- he's lying -- we'll get water from the Turgut city purifier at CED. It's a lie, and he's not having any relations with the Turgut City and the Metropolitan Corporation. Guys, we've been through so much disaster, I understand your hostility to green, but I also understand your sensitivity to the other green. Why don't you allow 1,800,000 tons of sulfuric acid to destroy this plain in the area of Mount Play? What are you saying? You're saying that you've given these group proposals and research proposals to this extent. Weren't we on the Soma Commission with you for seven hours? Wasn't the establishment of the Soma Commission helpful? If only we had established the Soma Commission, the Soma Commission, which has been working for six months, before our 301 people died, wouldn't it be useful? As you say, the commissions are not useless, but the commissions are the RD of this House. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And as long as you don't set up these commissions, these accidents will happen to you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0099par0139	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0100par0140	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0101par0141	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0099par0142	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0101par0143	And I'd like a word from the tease, Mr. President, twice...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0099par0144	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0101par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm deeply sorry to say that I'm disappreciating this love of mine and the love of our friends, the Manisa MP of the Justice and Development Party. And these mining businesses either slaughter people or slaughter nature, forest, water. Let the government and your government pay for this. Tomorrow, you'll all be charged together. It's obvious. What investments are you talking about? What investments are you talking about? You have no real activity but to sell huge, huge businesses that the Republic of Turkey has built over the years. In the 57th government, there were investments and services, but there were no natural massacres. That's how we know. Dear friends, it has now been stated that it is not a British company. It's the third time he's changed hands, there's a pattern. It's still run by this British company. Then why does Simon Purkiss, the technical manager of this company, which is now called Sardes, still travel and supply this mountain of Rock nickels? Well, you'll have to explain that, too. So this company's activities continue, and I wish that this love, this love, this understanding of killing nature for this nickel mine, that no longer matter how important it is to human life, that power should give up as soon as possible. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0102par0154	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0103par0155	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0104par0156	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0102par0157	I'm the last, yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0104par0158	One at a time, their shields first...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0102par0159	Yes, yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0105par0160	I can speak to Mr. Hamzacebi, and I can speak last.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0104par0161	Okay, all right.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0102par0162	The bands talked first, I'm taking last.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0104par0163	Okay.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0106par0164	Please, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0104par0165	I'm very pleased with your kindness. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0107par0167	Sir, in a statement from the speaker speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, there has been a taunting of the Republican People's Party Group. The slogan was: "The Republican People's Party MPs have made a motion saying that business accidents will be prevented by the Soma disaster." We don't have that expression. On the contrary, sir, he's expressed what we're saying in a different way. I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0104par0168	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0107par0170	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers also used a sentence that spoke on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group: Republican People's Party MPs say: "Work accidents will be prevented by providing a parliamentary inquiry proposal." There is no such thing. So by making a motion to investigate, work accidents, work killings, catastrophes cannot be prevented, he said. This sentence is no different from the following sentences mentioned earlier: Year 2010, the Karadon mining disaster, 30 workers died, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan said: "Death is the fate of this profession." The Minister of Labor of Time said: "They died well." The 2014, Soma disaster, our 301 brothers lost their lives, Mr. Erdoğan said, "Death is on the edge of it again." Mr. Özdağ maintains the same understanding. It means death is the destiny of this work. It's a shame, I'm expressing my regrets. The Soma disaster took place on 13 May 2014. On April 29th, we came here with a proposal that a disaster could happen at the Soma mines at any time, so let's investigate it and take precautions. We brought in a motion with the signatures of our Manisa MPs and 54 of our MPs, and you rejected it here. You're saying that if we had accepted this motion, this disaster would have happened again, and it would have happened again. Dear friends, after that, the bag of laws has been passed, and you've given the image of all accidents being prevented. 18 of our workers were buried in Ermenek, and still their bodies were not recovered. Put aside your understanding and listen to these workers. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0108par0176	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0107par0177	Mr. Kaplan, I forgot to thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0109par0178	Mr. President, in my speech just now, he said that it was all a lie, that it wasn't the British company.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0110par0179	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0109par0181	Look, guys, I'm the only one left on that Commission, the second one elected, and Halil, Antalya MP; none elected. But when I do, you'll have to watch my language when you talk about it. One: European Nickel, British company, not royalty? Come out of here, your government. Speak up. Is he on the London Stock Exchange or not? Then he changed his name to this British company, Bosphorus. Later, Sardes. You know Sardes, where the first gold coin was printed. No, a local Ankara company came along: VTG. No, he's been changing stocks over the last six months. There's a collaborative cutting down 2 million trees and then expanding the license. What if he's 100 percent Turkish now? What law is it to defend those who work together for global capital that spill poison to people, burn the Gediz Delta, burn everything down? You're telling us that they're fighting back. Yes, I'm against it. You're going to flood Hasankeyf in 2014. I just gave the Minister of the Forest a picture of Hasankeyf. History will write you as the ones who flooded Hasankeyf, the greatest culture, the massacre of history. THE HESEs are, the thermal plants are. Look, I'll tell you what you did last time, how many plants do you sell? The last number of plants you tried to sell, yes, 46; 70 billion... if it was a profit, why sell it? And after that ye scattered the valleys of the Black Sea, and Munzur, and Hasankeyf, and Dicle, and Ionia, and Gediz, and Mount Ida, and all the earth. How do we say yes to your breakdown? That's treason. That's robbing the country. This is persecution. This is violence, my friends. Be careful when you talk here.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0111par0186	Easy, easy...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0112par0187	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0109par0188	Mr. President, I'd like to invite the government to take out all these companies, and let's see how many of them are 100 percent Turkish. Türkoglu Türk, how many companies are there?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0111par0189	Don't be racist! Don't be racist, Hasip!
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0109par0190	Is that the European firm, Turkluk, the VTG, the Sardes, which one? Let him speak.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0113par0192	Don't be racist, it's racist. Don't be a stranger.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0114par0193	Mr. Kaplan, thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0115par0194	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0114par0195	Yes, now that you've put in a sentence for the record, then I'll call you; that's the way we do it. What do you want to say?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0115par0197	Sir, I was going to ask for a word one-on-one, but I'd like to speak to the three of them together, and I'd like to speak to the three groups separately. Hasip Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0116par0198	Are three groups to be spoken for together?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0114par0199	Not separately. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I promise you, no hard feelings. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0117par0200	Let your Minister come out, bring his business record, see if they're British or Turkish, brother. I mean, why don't you just...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0114par0201	Now, I followed it to make things go fast.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0117par0202	Mr. President, there's the Minister of the Cabinet here, let them bring in the business records of the companies. Let's see these, business records. Let's see if they're British or Turkish.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0114par0203	According to the Civil Code, you're a lawyer - I don't have that right and I don't have that law.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0118par0204	We do, Mr. President, we do.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0117par0205	And the government's giving you the license.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0114par0206	You invite me, but I can't, Reverends, why are you leading me to commit a crime? Mr. Özdağ, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0119par0209	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Vice President of the Republican People's Party Party, have just distorted my words and brought them up. I'm not saying there shouldn't be a parliamentary inquiry motion here. I said, "This Parliament will not do anything else when we've tried to discuss all of this." And I said, "It's not just a matter of council research, it's a matter of mentality, I said the matter of education." I've brought up the lack of our laws in this matter. That's why we need to get this right.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0120par0210	Are you against the mine or not, Mr Selçuk? Tell me if you're against the mine or not!
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0119par0211	As for another matter, Hasip Kaplan says here: "You have torn this place apart, you have destroyed this place. We know those who destroy what we want to do." We know who came and bombed them there, killed the soldiers, and were in action not to have the HESECs built there.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0121par0213	What's that got to do with anything? What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0122par0214	Get the fuck out of here! What the fuck? What are you confusing with his exploits?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0119par0215	We know those who don't have airports built, we know those who don't have dams.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0122par0216	I'll make you a hero in Manisa, but you'll be another hero so you'll even become a Tarzan Manisa. For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0119par0217	We're not looting anything. We serve Turkey using our mines, using our energy, by maintaining the environment, protecting the environment. That's the way it's supposed to be known. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0122par0220	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0123par0224	The Republican People's Party Group recommends...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0124par0227	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0122par0228	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0125par0229	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0126par0230	I'll do the roll call.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0122par0231	Mr. President, about the exploitation, about the company...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0126par0232	I told you, I just told you, there's roll call.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0122par0233	Mr. Speaker, when he gets up on something about the company, he twists our conversation with the company about nature, and he says, "I don't know where he's bombing, what's going on."
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0126par0234	No, I've got people up. Mr. Kaplan, I promise.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0122par0235	I'll take it easy.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0126par0236	No, no, I don't mind promising, but now...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0122par0237	No, but don't pick on me...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0126par0238	I'll be glad to see your manners work out just now.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0122par0239	But, Mr. President, it was a very strong accusation directly against us.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0126par0240	I'm not saying I won't promise you anything. I'm asking you, my friends are up.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0127par0241	We're standing, please... you'll do the courtesy.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0126par0242	I'm a fool among you, I swear.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0128par0243	Check it out, all right.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit05spe0126par0244	Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Gök, Mr. Kören, Mr. Serker, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Akar, Mr. Acar, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Düçük, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Logoglu, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Özgündüz. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger. Closing Time. 17.54
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0126par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call before the Republican People's Party Group's proposal was voted was not enough. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Now, Mr. Kaplan, since we're taking a break, I'll give you my word on your position by turning on the microphone. I mean, I'm just saying, you don't want to pick on me...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0129par0014	It's because of the bullying, because it's been a very serious accusation.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0126par0015	I'll give you my word on your position, whether you've spoken there or there, you'll speak with the microphone open. I mean, since you're such a great guy with the law, don't push me.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0129par0017	Actually, according to 69...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0126par0018	No, no, I'll give you the same amount of time, so there's no loss. That's good, you'll talk from where you're sitting. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0129par0022	Mr. President, thank you. In terms of manisa, Turkey's first environmentalist - 1897 - is Ahmettin Carlak. I want all Manisa people to take a good look at this picture, take a good look at this picture: Manisa Tarzan is the first environmentalist of the Ottoman era in Turkey. It is a great injustice to Manisa, to all who live in the Gediz Delta, not to all who live in Manisa. In contrast, a slap from Manisa Tarzan was enough for those who opposed the environment, life, history, and culture. The manisa Tarzan who opposes thieves, those who scatter nature. Today, in Manisa, those who defend the mines, those who advocate exploitation in the mines, those who corrupt the environment have no right to live and make politics. The people of Manisa will pay for this election. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0130par0026	The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's 19/11/2014 meeting on Wednesday (now), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Interior Charter. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The Law Proposal No. 655, which was issued under pressure, would not take 48 hours to the 5th order of the Agenda's "Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" and again to the ranking of 73, 638, 432, 610, 612, and 471. Besides weekdays, 21, 28, 29 and 30 November 2014 Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays at 14 p.m. The meeting at 00, and the discussion of the work involved in these mergers in "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions," Until Wednesday, November 19, 2014 (today) the meeting of the talks of the works, until the Charter Number 638, was completed; Until the meeting of Thursday (November 20, 2014), until the meeting of the 432th Bill of Laws; Until Friday (November 21st 2014) the meeting of the talks of the operations of the Law Bill, number 610, was completed; On Tuesday (November 25, 2014), the merger of verbal questions was not discussed until the meeting of the talks of the work of the Law Bill No. 612 was completed; Until Wednesday (November 26th 2014) the meeting of the talks of the jobs leading up to Bill 471 in the merger; Until Thursday, November 27, 2014, when the talks were completed until Bill 455 of Laws were merged; Until Friday (November 28th 2014) the meeting of the talks of the operations leading up to Bill 646 in the unification of Friday's merger; Until Saturday, November 29, 2014, when the talks were completed until the 31st Bill of the Law were merged; Until Sunday, November 30, 2014, when the talks of business were completed until Bill 51; On Tuesday (December 2nd 2014), the meeting of verbal questions and other audit issues, which are not discussed on the agenda, is the talks on "Law Bills and Proposses and Other Affairs From Commissions," On Wednesday, December 3, 2014, the unspoken questions were not discussed. On Tuesday, December 2, 2014, it was 15:00-23. Between 00 hours; On Wednesdays and Thursdays, December 3 and 04, 2014, 2400-23. Between the hours of 00 hours, 24 a.m. in the above. At 00 p.m., when daily programs are incomplete, they continue to work until daily programs are completed; The Law Proposal No. 655 was proposed to be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, and to have its sections in the accompanying form. In favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0131par0056	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a promise to express my opinion in favor of our group proposal. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, our group proposal recommends a two-week working schedule of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until December 4th. In this framework, the General Assembly's work schedules and hours are rearranged, some of the law proposals and bills on the agenda are placed in the front row. In this framework, the General Assembly's talks today had a vote on the health code, you know, from last week, and then, hopefully, we're planning to start negotiations with the Central Law today. After that, the law on judges and prosecutors number 655, which is a very important law. There are significant improvements in the rights of our judges and prosecutors' rights, and again, the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals on the pardon of certain disciplinary sentences, which are recommended to establish some apartments in order to ease the workload. This law is also recommended to take the lead. This week, it is recommended that the General Assembly work on Friday, outside of normal working days, and work on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, until it is completed again next week. 24 on normal days of the General Assembly. It is recommended that it work to the end of the day if the work is not completed. I await your support for our proposal, and salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0132par0062	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Ardahan MP Ensar Öğün against the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0133par0066	Mr. President, dear friends, I have made a pledge on the proposal of the Justice and Development Party, with all due respect. Dear friends, the Justice and Development Party has proposed law number 655. A bill that has nothing to do with Turkey, with the agenda, with Turkey's fundamental problems; I, for him, will focus on the real, fundamental issues of Turkey, not on this. Dear friends, the Justice and Development Party has ruled our country for 12 years. For twelve years, as he had finished the peasant, so did the tradesman and the industrialist, and all the tradesmen, and all the people. Why? I'll give you the numbers right away. Now, we just had a different conversation. Dear friends, let me first say that in Turkey, about 4,000 villages have been evacuated in the southeast, 1.5 million people have been forced to emigrate, come to major cities, people have been devastated, production has been reduced in the east and southeast. Then, during the Justice and Development Party, 2 million people migrated, and again came to the capital cities, in real poverty in the cities, their children are unemployed, and many of their children are in prison because there is no work, there is no work, there is no robbery, there is crime. Third: The lands of these migratory people are about 3 million hectares of friends, 3 million hectares of farmland have not been planted or mowed. The Justice and Development Party deprived Turkey of hay and imported hay. Yes, for the first time in the Republic, we imported hay in a country that had so much land, so large. Outside that first straw, we imported the first sacrifice. God forbid, if we had brought sacrifice in our power, they would have said, "What if these animals were fed?" Now, I say to you, all the animals from the outside come from the slaughter, feeding on the feed of pigs. Why is a pig's giblet fed on lard and fed? Because when the animal eats it, it gains weight, it swells; and when it gains weight and swells, it suits the merchant. They bring him in, they sell him to us, they feed him to us. I mean, there's snails being sold here in Muslim neighborhood, nobody's making a sound, and I'm amazed at that. We're a Muslim country, why, brother, do you feed me the animal made of pork, pork fat, pork giblets? Why don't you give us our own production? Dear friends, now, during the AK PARTY, import animals and agricultural products have been paid close to $100 billion. Look, hang on, over $100 billion has been paid in 12 years. I mean, it's a terrible amount of money, guys, making 220 quadrillion.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0134par0072	We have a lot of money, a lot of money, that's why!
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0133par0073	We have a lot of money, a lot, a lot of money. We're building palaces for him, don't worry! Now, my dear friends, let me tell you, we have 22,000 tons of red meat in the first nine months -- January and September. Chicken's rising, meat's improving. Now, here's something interesting. You know, they say that omega 3 is a high-food, mind-blowing, brain-opening meat, red meat, that's mera meat. So the free, wandering animal has a higher omega 3 nutritional value in its meat, and Turkey can't eat this meat. We're always eating the animal that's brought in from the outside, fed on lard, fed on the fat of the pig, eaten the food from the giblet. See, in Australia, one person eats 142 kilos of meat a year, one person eats 125 kilos of meat a year in America, and one person eats 82 kilos of meat in Germany. How many in Turkey? 12 kilos. So, friends, what are you bragging about?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0135par0076	It's our cholesterol. It's our cholesterol.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0133par0077	What did you guys do in 12 years? Can you imagine in Turkey, people can't eat meat? What are you eating?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0135par0078	Look, there's the Minister of Health. Too much cholesterol, too much black meat...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0133par0079	There's no cholesterol in the meat of the animal that roams the Merada. Now, my dear friends, look, the Justice and Development Party has made a decision here, bringing 15,000 tons of meat from Bosnia and Herzegovina, issued a decree on 13/5/2014, bringing 15,000 tons of imported meat. But I hear that these meats, Mr. Minister, respond not to the animals of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but to bring animals from outside, from Christian countries to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is that true or not? Please look into it. Look, they recently issued another decree on September 16, 2014, two months ago. You know what this is? A decision that sinks the villager, sinks the farmer, which represents close to 30 per cent of the population, says here: the current number of domestic original food materials in the operating company can be imported by 40 per cent. There is a decision coming out in September. What does that mean? The rich, the big operators will import, the villagers won't be able to do it, the villagers will sink when they bring in the rich, brother. A friend here said that Bünyamin Bey of the Justice and Development Party said: "We have given animals for two years without pay and five years with zero interest." How did they give them? I'll give you a loan for two years with no pay, five years with zero interest, but you'll go and get an animal from the man I said. They bought animals for six or seven billion, my friends. What happened after that, very smart Minister of Agriculture, what did he do? He set the import free, peasant, all those loans went down, 6-7 billion-dollar animals went down to 2.5 billion, and it went down to 2.5 billion. Is that true or not? Well, that's a shame, isn't it? You're sinking your own farmer, your own village; you're bringing in imported animals in the U.S., Hungary, where you can develop farmers, and you're paying close to $100 billion for agriculture and livestock. My brother, it is the truth. God will not forgive, nor will it ever happen.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0136par0083	You'll be fine. You'll be fine.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0133par0084	Dear friends, do you recognize this picture? You know him, don't you?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0137par0085	Let's see!
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0133par0086	Your eyes choose. Your old friend, Mr. Kaçir.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0137par0087	I don't know how to see him.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0133par0088	The fugitive came out of the ground, he says. There's meat on the loose from Mersin. 1,044 tons of contraband, worth 28 million. Our former Minister Kemal Unakitan has come out of his in-laws. There is a claim.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0137par0089	Who's got him, who's got him?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0133par0090	Who caught him? We reported it, and the government officials caught it, and you let them in as parallel structures. Now, wait a minute. We'll talk about it, Mr. Kaçir. Now, my friends, the police catch the officer who committed the crime here, they say: "You're from the parallel structure." Yeah, there's no such thing as cruelty. Now, the Minister of Customs and Trade has explained, Mr. Canikli said: "These meats, OK, have arrived, but we have doubts about how they were cut."
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0138par0093	Don't go around, tell me the in-laws, who's the in-laws?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0133par0094	Ahmet, look, listen! We have doubts as to how it was cut.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0139par0095	He doesn't understand, he doesn't understand!
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0133par0096	Now, if you have any doubts, brother, why don't you destroy these meats, send them back, and punish these men?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0140par0097	Let's find out about the in-laws, don't jump from place to place!
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0133par0098	Now, my dear friends, how it was cut out... you bring in the flesh of an animal not cut by Islamic rules, feed it to Muslims. Allah will not accept it, nor will His bondmen accept it. Dear friends, in conclusion, the Department of Agriculture has earmarked 9 billion budgets, and the farmer owes 32 billion to banks. This is what I say, let the banks be paid off by farmers, let the farmer be given decent loans, don't produce, don't imports, let the villagers rise, let our people eat healthy meat, let's be at peace. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0141par0102	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. In favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, Istanbul MP Osman Love Bak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0142par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of our group's proposal. I salute your high council. Our group proposal recommends a two-week schedule of the parliamentary agenda. The Law Proposal, which proposes a amendment to the 655 rankings of the HSYK Law, is recommended to be taken to the 5th place of the agenda, to the 14th, 13th, 14th, and 16th, in turn to the 7th order of the agenda, and 638, 432, 610, 612, 612, and 471. Besides weekdays, Friday, November 21st and November 28th, November 29th, Friday, November 30th, Saturday, Sunday at 14pm. It is recommended to work by meeting at 00. In a moment, İstanbul Research Centre 640 will be discussed by the Bill of Law. Due to the intensity of the parliamentary agenda, I respectfully salute your grand delegation as I end my promises to the agenda.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0143par0113	Thank you, Mr. Bak. Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu is opposed to the Justice and Development Party proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0144par0117	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when I begin my words, I salute you all. Yeah, the other one's a new change before the ink drys out of an offer just before that. In fact, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has become a parliament that doesn't know what it's doing. Because, with the proposal delivered only a week ago, the House was scheduled to work hours, but without implementing them, a new motion came here. Of course, it's all about HSYK Law number 655, scheduled for next week. How many of them are in Turkey as a judicial package? This is the fourth one in a year. You're acting in an understanding that changed what you did a month or two ago after a month or two. Really, it's amazing. Now, in that understanding, what we need to do is prevent you from breaking this law, and I'm telling you clearly and clearly. By trying all kinds of applications, you're saying that you have to make this law this way, and you have to get ahead of these legal, judicial games, and you're giving it to us, and you're saying that. But, really, if you had suggested a solution to this, you would have to admit that the HSYK is in a position above politics and not to play on it. The most important thing about keeping a state alive is to have a state of law, but you want a state system, not a state state of law. This is not a bright attitude for Turkey's future. Dear lawmakers, haven't we... haven't we actually increased the judges' salary by the end of October? We raised. Now, where does it come from again, and for what reason are you trying to take it out, you call it the rights to freedom? Then why did you take it off? Because before the HSYK elections, you were in a position to win the vote of judges, prosecutors, people who would vote. Now, why are you changing it? Because here, and now, you're putting HSYK on all of them, including the Supreme Court. If you're the Supreme Court... you know, the law you've passed before this, why did you guys take out the court of honors because it's a court of law? Here, you're out, you're talking to yourself. You said, "We're setting up a court of law because the power of the judge is too high in the business volume, so we're just setting up a court of law, and we're just making it a court of law." But before that, you added some circles to the Supreme Court because of the workforce here, and you saw that this is not the solution. For him, we're setting up law enforcement courts. You said, "Well, there's no solution for you either." Because everyone knows that law enforcement courts have not been able to perform successful work in the past period, which means that these courts established in the Ottoman period -- the courts of the building -- and then the litigation courts -- are not the solution. Now, even though you've already set up law suits, are you or are you not adding new apartments to the Supreme Court in this new law? Why do you add it, tell me, for what reason do you add it? You're making the Supreme Court more responsible for the task that is being carried out by law enforcement courts. What happened to the recrimination hearings that would stand in the way of that, and the Supreme Court would be able to work better? But what you're doing is you're adding apartments because you're adding new judges to the HSYK elections by adding new apartments because the Supreme Court doesn't choose who you want them to be, and you're going to put politics there, and that's what you're doing, and that's why you're doing it. Oh, it's a shame, it's a sin. This goes on the record, and you guys are gonna answer for what you did tomorrow. So you're not just going to give this account to the law, you're going to give it to people because it's not the road, guys. So, you're making a decision to work on Saturday and Sunday, but look, if you try to close this House on Thursday, I want to make it very clear that if you try to close this House on Friday, we're not going to allow it, so we're going to continue the meeting Act until the end, and we're going to extend it, and we're going to continue it on Friday. If that's what you want, we'll do it. Then why are you bringing it in if you're going to cancel it? You come to us, and you say, "Come to us, let's make a deal." So, why don't you come ahead and tell us this and put in a workday on Friday? Come on, let's make a deal. Why don't you bring it? Don't bring him here and bring him back. Thus, the AKP's motion is seen as a product of an understanding that, in fact, does not agree with the Parliament to work in a certain order, and we do what we want to do. And I'll tell you this: unfortunately, the laws here are not considered in accordance with international rule of law, in accordance with regulations. So think of it this way: you make a law, Turkey's Grand National Assembly makes a law, and it tries to change the day after that, let alone the day after that. What kind of legal system does that have, bro? Shame on you. So what you're saying is that the government has to be a cautious, planned, well-equipped, well-equipped state. Otherwise, he's got some sort of repetitive image of what's going on that keeps the House running like a sabbatical. In fact, the Civil Law must be changed by considering these issues, and it must be well known when and how the Assembly will work. I mean, how many times have you changed a law, such as the Contraction Act, since you've been in power? You've changed it 28 times -- I'm not talking about its materials -- 28 times you've changed it. In the end, by holding a large part of it out of the tender, you've put it in a situation where there won't be any need for the Contraction Law, and I'll do it as you asked. You're trying to run a state by account. I repeat: we are against this proposal, and we do not constantly accept the wear and change of the House. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0145par0127	Thank you. I'd like to put the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0146par0129	There's not enough of a decision.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0145par0130	But he wasn't wanted. Those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs from the Commissions.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0147par0133	There's a vote to be made.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0145par0134	Now, I'm in front of me, reading the article I've been given, so don't make a sound in every head. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will continue our talks with Kars MP Yunus Kılıç and Amassian MP Avni Erdemir and 79 MPs who were ranked in the 3rd ranking position of President of the Health Institutes of Turkey; and with the establishment of the President of the Health Institutes of Turkey; and with the amendments to Decisions in Laws and Health, Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Report. The Commission and the Government? Here. According to the 91st Article of the Civil Code, talks were completed in the 14th Union of 13/11/2014. Members of parliament, the Commission has a request to amend it according to Article 85 of the Interior Charter on the 24th article of the bill. I want word, Mr. President. Mr. Commissioner, come in. There is a change in Article 43 of the National Education Basic Law under Article 615 of the Charter of Laws No. 615. However, Article 43 of the National Education Basic Law was amended by Article 6552, which was adopted on September 10, 2014, and by Article 95 (95) of the Law on the Amendment to some Laws and Laws and Reconstructions of some Public Acquisitions. In response to this amendment to the text of the law, part of the provision in Article 43 of the bill was misplaced. In concrete terms, the chapter on the 5th joke of the National Education Basic Law (the 43rd Article) was inappropriate for the change of the expression "Preparation and Measurement and Placement Centre" in the form "Preparation and Measurement Centre" and/or "Scalation, Selection and Placement Centre" (the 5th article of the National Education Basic Law). Because this change has already occurred with Law 6552. Therefore, the amendment to the fifth joke must be issued within the framework of Article 24. Again, under Article 24/4 of the bill, there is no law under which the declaration of the National Education Basic Law shall be changed in the subtitled or written or verbal examination, which is included in the subsection of Article 43/6 of the Article 43. Law number 6552 has been changed into the written and oral test (also written) and the written and/or oral examination. For this reason, the amendment of the bill to the sixth joke must be corrected in the form of a written and/or verbal test. With the correction of these two financial errors due to changes in the current and related text of the law, the problem of law technique will be resolved without the will to regulate them. Admired by the presidency and the General Assembly. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0148par0160	Mr. President, sir, the commission's corrections aren't redacted. This is completely against the Civil Code. This needs to be taken back, it needs to be negotiated. Otherwise, Mr. President, there's no way to correct a law like this. It's completely against the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0149par0161	The technique needs to be negotiated.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0148par0162	The technique needs to bring in the negotiation. Otherwise, we've made such a mistake....... Look, they're making such false laws that they bring a law that's been broken, or rather a law that's been changed in some other way, and they change it here. Now he says, "Sir, he's changed." Were you asleep then?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0150par0163	Yes, now...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0148par0164	I mean, he can't make that kind of correction, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit06spe0150par0165	Hold on, hold on. Mr. Halaçoglu, I understand he has objections. May I invite the members of the group to join me for a cup of tea? I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0150par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 615 from where we left off. The Commission and the Government are here. Does the government agree with these corrections?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0151par0005	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0150par0006	I submit to your votes the commission has demanded and the government has agreed to the amendments: those who have... those who do not accept... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'm going to call the General Assembly's decision on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like members who can't get into the system to ask for help from the technical staff present in the hall, but those who can't get into the system to deliver the ballots through technical personnel in three minutes. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the clear vote of Bill 615: The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. Mr. Secretary, are you going to give a thank-you speech?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0152par0016	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0150par0017	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0152par0019	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, first of all, I would like to thank all of our fellow workers and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Indeed, I believe, in particular, that in the historical future, the President of the Turkish Institutes of Health will have a significant contribution to Turkey's dynamics in the field of health. Therefore, I would like to thank you separately, both in the commission process, in the lower commission and in the negotiations in the Commission process, and in the work at the General Assembly level. I believe that with his power, with his opposition, everyone tried to contribute sincerely, with good intentions, and those contributions today became undesigned by the recognition of the High Assembly. I thank you all. Of course, here, as a physician, as an individual, as a member of this profession, I'd like to wish that the university of Turkish health sciences, in that sense, could be achieved together in a common way. In this sense, I believe that we can better explain this area to the opposition, especially to the opposition, and together, we can put together that vision that Turkey needs in this field. In the future, hopefully, together, let's analyze what the real need is, and the need is, I believe this Turkey will be able to bring a bill that it believes is true, that it can stand strong behind it, and I salute you all with these feelings and thoughts, with respect to the High Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0153par0023	Thank you. We will begin negotiations with the European Commission for Information and Technology and the Justice Commission for Industry, Trade, Energy, and Development and Technology, which are ranked in the fourth place. The Commission and the Government are here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 640 rows. According to the 91st article of the Civil Code, it was agreed to transfer the proposed draft into the 11th Union of 6/11/2014. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers 1 to 9. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0154par0034	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. I salute you all. Of course, global capital is very valuable, and its money is valuable; it must be protected when it goes somewhere. In Istanbul, the financial centre will be established, and the money will be precious, even more precious than their lives, and it must be protected for him. Protect me how? I need a special court for that, people, a special investigation. So that's basically the name of this law. For the profit of these global capital companies, is this subcontractor, under this privatisation persecution, a special trial for these dangerous business branches, friends, while 301 of our citizens were dying in a terrible accident, while the funerals were being lifted today? No. Do you have one for the workers? No. Do you have one for the workers? No. Do you have one for the public? No, it's for those who have money. Why do those who have money build courts like this? And that's because there's no justice in Turkey, because they don't trust the courts, because the courts aren't independent and neutral, because there's no law here, there's no justice; it's that simple. If you want, you can build a financial center, and I'll bring in my money, my capital, but if you set up a collusion like this, I'll protect myself there separately with the laws I know, and you'll get that decision out of your coven. And do you know what would happen if, for God's sake, when they cut down 6,000 olive trees, they had the tongue of those olives, but they had the authority to judge them, and this late justice could be punished? Funerals were removed today in Ermenek. And what mine in the world has life loss after flooding? Who can explain this to me? Now, this kind of capital, this kind of mining, this kind of business, this kind of nature-destroying, this kind of environmental disaster, has no special judgment. We just witnessed an interesting discussion, my friends. This discussion was about the nickel cooker in Manisa. This furnace would poison the Gediz Delta; in this mine, in this nickel mine, 2 million trees would be cut down. Take a good look at this picture, please click on Google and click "Manisa Tarzan" in Google; Ahmet Bedevi, after the war in the Ottoman era -- this is a Turkmen from Samarra, and is the first environmentalist of the Ottoman Republic of Turkey, not the Ottomans. Now, as the Manisa Tarzan, as the first environmentalist, the Ministry of Forests isn't going to build a statue of this, do you know whose statue he's going to build? And he maketh the image of the two million trees in Mount Çi, of the Turguthite, and of the six thousand olive trees in Soma. Why? Wild capitalism, money, money, it blinds a man's eyes, it destroys his brain, it destroys his conscience, you know. And that's the government making new laws for the accounting of conscience. You know these last laws, don't you? No, it's the law of protecting the government, my friends. This is the last time the Justice Commission passed, they passed the government protection law. This, the TOMA, the orders, the new gas, the new things... except for all of that, when I say the security department debates -- notice the government -- is the reason to seize the government's property. This government is corrupt, this government is corrupt, this government is inverted. When he says, "Are you the one who criticizes the government?" They will say, "Are you the one who criticizes the government?" They will grab him, not only will they let him in, but they will seize his property. Is there such a thing as justice? You'll be a shield in front of global capital, you'll lock up your own citizen, you'll take possession of his property. Why? We are the opposition of the government, we are against the government, we are against the government, we are against the government by nature. Well, then you're a reasonable suspect. Come on, cops, get after them. Now, look, private security says that in the law of protecting the private government, the decision to seize the impositions, the rights, and the recipients. Not only can you move, but if your house, salary, money comes from a bank or somewhere else... Well, then the political parties, unions, associations, environmentalists, everyone will shut up, and only the people in Turkey will talk about power; that's for him, and that's for the courts. Now, this reasonable doubt, this reasonable doubt... friends, Turkey has been split in two, in an interesting way, divided into reasonable suspects and reasonable ones. The ruling side will be reasonable, but the opposition will be reasonable. Now, the police, the police, the gendarmes, everyone, this is the opposition. He'll say, "Go see if they're eating beans, whether there's meat in the beans or Kayseri bacon." They will say, "Where does it come from?" They will say, "They will take the worlds in Istanbul's financial center with global capital, and the ships will carry their goods as they please, and put money in their pockets as they please. So, let's do a procedure on you, brother, there's an inquiry center. What if you set up this inquiry center for yourselves? But doesn't this government owe you some justice in this country? Now, look, if there's a law passed that can enforce detention, search, wiretaps, and seizure measures. Look, the guys who are gonna be here soon, practice like this, get used to it. There are two ways to get a position of reasonable suspect: either you will be protected or they will crush you, they will drive you, they will seize the goods, they want such a Turkey, silence you in the security state. They're limiting the defense, and we don't need a lawyer. Isn't that a great trial without a lawyer? Well, the corruption... look, be careful, the lawyer can't examine the paperwork, it's limited, but they counted the crimes. There are no restrictions on corruption files, folks. It's strange, isn't it? In the corruption case, a lawyer can get anywhere he wants. Bringing in unrestricted wiretaps. Yeah, there wasn't anyone in Turkey who didn't get any rest anyway. What if you increase the limit of listening where everyone's resting? Now, what happens here when you talk to the president, the prime minister, the minister, the government? This time, a special trial will be brought into effect, as well as a special court of inquiry and a private court here. I ask you now... be wary of Allah! You need the law, you need the justice. One day you will come out, and someone will ask you, "What's your mother's name?" What's your father's name? You brought this much money from here to here, and you ate that stuff over there. You went to this country, you cooperated with it. You took money from that, you took it over there. Fear God. He says. Of course, in this world, why didn't you pay your taxes? A political authority would come and go. But why didn't you give your zakat in the afterlife? The demons will catch you after the Linet Bridge. Why didn't you give alms? There's no zakat and no taxes and no justice. That's too much, too many friends. We don't hire these things, we call them Ret.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0155par0049	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Turgut Dibek. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0156par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I'm on the stand to announce the views of the Republican People's Party on the first chapter of the Istanbul Research Centre Bill. First of all, I salute you. Now, I tried to listen carefully to Mr. Hasip about what he was going to say about the law, but he told me a little bit complicated. Dear friends, in fact, the technical side is a bit of a harsh law, so it involves more technical arrangements. So maybe I see what the law brings, what's being arranged by this law, is a bill that our friends or fellow citizens who follow us have a hard time understanding, because I'm going through the same thing. Knowing that, I'm going to share my thoughts about this bill with you so that it becomes a little more understandable. Now this Research Centre bill is not really new in Turkey, so it has a history. Studies on this have been launched a long time ago, and even in early 2014, the bill was planned to come to parliament. Now, look, we're saying the world is shrinking, so in transportation, it is, in technology, it's really improved. So when we leave Turkey today, we can reach Europe in four hours, and the furthest corner, Asia, and the Middle East, and so can they. All over the world, because the development of this development of technology and transportation and trade has also improved so much, these developments in international trade have produced conflicts, created problems, and sought out how to resolve these conflicts. Here's one way to solve this, make it shorter, make it faster. Here, sir, national courts, courts in those countries can't solve these conflicts more objectively. There are a lot of arbitration centers in the world. So as Turkey, we've taken some of these examples and we've drawn up a bill. So, the academics worked, the lawyers worked, and you came across this bill. That's what we discussed on the commission. Look, when we look at what an inspection center should be, I mean, what it should be, what it should be, how it should function, or why users should go to it, it needs to have some properties. So that inspection center should be the buyer. When the research center is established, they say, there it is, deader at birth. It doesn't mean anything. It has to be neutral once, independent. A structure like that needs to be built within this centre of inquiry. He's gonna be the experts, he's gonna make a quick trial, there's gonna be a secret trial, and there's gonna be arrangements. This arrangement was made by countries. The country that does this with the law is already very few valuable friends because when you try to do it with the law, the government gets in, the institutions get in, and it's not about the neutrality that I'm talking about, the independence that I'm talking about, the independence that the state's institutions have impacted on this arbitration center, and it's not about the sense of trust. What did they do? They've established associations, they've established universities, they've established trade and industrial rooms, and institutes have set up these kinds of arbitration centers, and there's a huge demand for inspection centers all over the world. Now, when I look at the bill, my friends, how do we set it up? So when we set this up, will it function in Turkey, or will it help? How much is the government involved? How did the Justice and Development Party reflect its democratic side here? I also want to say that I was really upset when I looked at it. Because if that is the case, dear friends, no one will come in here and get any services, find any buyers, come in here and we'll solve our problems through referees, we'll come in international conflicts, we'll solve them. Because the structure was formed in a way that the government, the government, the Ministry, the institutions, is trying to hold and the state bodies will control this centre of inquiry. Look, there's a general council, it's important. He elects the board and the auditors through a grand jury. The board later selects secretary general and assistant secretary general. Now, this general board structure consists of 25 people. I'd like to talk a little bit about this general board structure, which is kind of interesting. Look, there's an arrangement with the Bar Association, and I'd like to mention it. In fact, it reveals your face with all its clarity. So what you're doing here about the League of Bars doesn't really apply to democracy or willpower or what you're saying; I'll explain that. Now, the general council will elect six representatives of the TOBBB -- from trade and industry rooms, which will be selected by the TOBB Board of Directors, from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry; the bar will select four people; the SEC will select 3; see, 1 person from the State Department of Justice's 1st class administrative judges will serve there; 1 member of the Turkish Association of Banks will be elected, 1 member of the Union of Turkish Accession Banks, 1 member of the Capital Market Board; 1 person from the Banking and Control Agency, 1 person from the Department of Justice, and 1 person from the Court of Justice. I mean, actually, the government's in on it. The government's institutions are sending representatives to the general council. Now, I've just told you why the world was founded: it's going to be neutral, it's going to be independent, it's going to be experts, it's not going to be the government. So, my dear friends, the two sides are already agreeing, they're saying: let's not take the conflict between us to the national judiciary of that country -- of course, that's the extent that the law allows it to be, so we agree on everything, so let's go to an arbitrator, but let's go, let's see this problem through the judges there, by agreeing in an arbitration center. I mean, that's the point, but how are these people going to build a structure like this, coming from the institutions of the state? We're taking it out of here, and what Hasip Bey said is that you're trying to build yourself an inquiry center, so let's set up an inspection centre in Turkey, but let's follow it up again, let's control it, let's control it. We're seeing this very clearly, my friends, about four people from the Bar Association, or rather, from the Bar Association. See, the 6th article states that each of these representatives will be elected by the governing boards of these institutions. The boards will choose those six people, four people, one person at a time, but when they come to the bars, they are called no. You can't choose the Bar Association, brother. You will only determine the day and place of the election very clearly here, but 81 bar presidents will come from Turkey and from Turkey, from the lawyers who are running for the Bar Association, from the bar presidents alone, will elect those four people to the general body of the inquiry centre. What if something like this happens? Mr. Secretary, I don't know, if he listens to me a little bit, this is an important issue, and I think it's one of the most important elements. Look, it's called democracy. Dear friends, the TOBB...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0157par0066	Mr. Turgut, that's how he gets elected to the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0156par0067	Wait a minute, wait a minute. It's like this: the TOBB chooses its own Governing Body, selects the CEC General Assembly, all institutions, all the institutions that I've just counted through the boards of directors, but when the Bar Association comes, you say, "No, you're not going to choose."
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0158par0069	For plurality.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0156par0070	What pluralism, my friends? Then do this: This is where the TOBBB chooses six people, and they are under the law. So there are presidents of trade and industry rooms in the provinces; there's a trade room, there's an industrial room, there's a marine trade room. Gather those presidents to the TOBB -- they have beautiful centers here -- and let those presidents choose -- pluralism. How many universities are there in Turkey? There are over 200 universities. Let their rectors come, and let them choose those 3 people that the CEC will choose as pluralists. Their boards choose. But, look, Mr. Secretary, please -- when we take this job into motions, materials -- it's not right, it's not right. You can't bring a separate arrangement on the matter of the Bar Association. Friends, did they choose how the League of Bars was chosen?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0159par0072	The rules of the Human Rights Institution are the same, and the rules of the Constitutional Court are the same.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0156par0073	I mean, did the Bar Association come in on assignment today, or did they come in custody? Choice is choice. The Bars have made their choice, and the Bar Association is one of the candidates there. This arrangement has to get out of there. I mean, if the other 25 people are going to choose boards, just as the board of directors has to choose who will come to that general council, four lawyers, and his lawyer, the Board of Directors of the Bar Association, dear friends. Other than that, there are a lot of problems with the law. But, look, there's no way we can say yes to this law here unless you basically fix the problems here. But in essence, when we look at it constructively -- in the developing time of the world -- it is inevitable that there is an inspection centre in Turkey. Istanbul Turkey is now the tipping point of a table tennis ball. So, when the ball is shot there, it bounces from Istanbul to Asia, skips from Istanbul... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He's going to the Middle East, here he is, sir, to Africa. So, this inquiry center will be established, but we have to address these problems here. If you remain indifferent, we, the Republican People's Party, will make every motion to correct the wrongs, we will make our talks, but we will not support it if it comes down to this. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0160par0079	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Congressman Faruk Bal. Since Mr. Faruk Bal has also taken a pledge on behalf of the individuals, I promise to join him for 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0161par0084	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In the 21st century, the world grew smaller. In the age of science -- the scientific community -- together with technological advances, capital has become worldwide, and so in conflicts that can arise, there have been other institutions that are believed in fast, safe, and unbiased, besides some traditional methods. The legal and commercial cases are also due to the need for swift, reliable, independent and impartial investigations in conflicts. Because of this need, Turkey's access to a country with legal security, which the capital markets could rely on, was created by the adoption of the International Law during the 57th Government in 2001. Thus, we consider it a good service to establish the Istanbul Research Centre -- even though it is a little late -- during a process of such opportunities. Of course, our criticism of the bill is confidential. Before we enter the reviews, I'd like to make a brief statement as to why the international inquiry should be necessary and what features it should have. My dear friends, capital never wants conflict on the floor because capital time is precious, to ensure that investment is not delayed; time is valuable in terms of capital, interest and loan costs. And when conflict arises, the capital, of course, wants to resolve conflicts within a reliable legal order that works quickly, what might happen before, what rules may be followed, and ultimately, it wants the people who will follow those rules to be independent and neutral. We're looking at the Istanbul Research Centre from such a point of view, but there are very serious provisions in the bill that don't match that. The most important of these provisions is the general structure, which we call the main part of the bill. The General Assembly consists of 25 people according to the bill; 6 from the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey, 4 from the Association of Bars -- 3 from the Association of Exporters -- 1, 1 from the Ministry of Justice of Justice, 1 from the Union of Turkish Banks, 1 from the Joint Banks Association, 1 from the Capital Market Board, 1 from the Stock Exchange Board, 1 from the Stock Exchange Union, 1 from the Union of Traders and Artists. This general board selects the board of directors, elects the auditors, selects the Istanbul International Court of Investigation, and selects the Istanbul National Court of Investigation, which means the general board shares the party among them. How is this called the General Assembly, brother? It's called putting certain people in certain seats after we get there. So, what happens on the way here? On the way here, it is clear that anyone who will be elected directly -- including the Bar Association -- will be under the influence and color of political power. The general council, which will be elected under the influence and color of political power, will not be an independent and impartial inquiry that international capital will trust. There will be two basic consequences. One of them, although he had started out with bad intentions or good intentions, eventually by creating a legal conflict, will arrive at the door of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, where they think he's running Turkey tomorrow, and they will force him to take care of one of our investigations. Didn't we see the pattern? We have, Mr. Secretary. How was the $2.5 billion tax debt of Citibank reduced to zero in this country? $2.5 billion, if there's a document that's really been issued, it's an orphan's right to pay. Mr. Unakitan has given up this $2.5 billion in the course of your government, with a global imposition in his time. Now, in a similar way, when international companies have established such an audit board, where will I go to Mr. President tomorrow and put 110 million dollars into the pool, where will I get it? I have this conflict with the highways, I have this conflict with the railroads, or... I have this conflict with the Privatisation Administration, it's an investigation. He'll say, "Hello." "Get it done." So this is a very serious problem. You agree to this serious problem on the grounds of the law, Mr. Secretary. You're saying that in order for him to be independent and neutral, this law has to be established by civil initiative -- that's right -- but he didn't make the civil initiative, so we're building it for him. And when you do, of course, it's a law shaped by AKP logic. We have an offer to fix this, and I'll explain it to you. But from your point of view, I'd like to touch a few sentences to what Turkey has become. In 2007, Mr. Minister, the law was sent from the Council of Ministers to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, 2007. When we came to 2011, a different bill came in, and it was said: "Let's increase the workload of the judge's workload, let's increase the number of members to a total of 387. You have, together in the scope of the Constitutional change, created the world's most obese Supreme Court and injected the world's obese Supreme Court with political hormones. I'm the one who told you this would be a problem for you, the MPs from the National Movement Party told me. We used the Jurassic Park monster as an example, and that's wrong. But you didn't listen. Now, there's a bill again, and here it is, next week, and this time in 387, he didn't cut you, and you're going to take the Supreme Court member to 516. My dear friends, this is a politically tragic situation, and it's a funny legal situation. Is there ever a 516-member Supreme Court? If you look at the laws you've passed before, the Supreme Court is an appeal to judges and prosecutors, so think of a 516-member court, and I'll leave you to appreciate the tragic and funny aspects of this. My dear friends, this has brought Turkey to a new point, in addition to the fundamental issues of the judiciary, which is a political hormonal judgment. This is the truth of Turkey. This is not the issue of the judiciary; this has become the problem of parliamentary democracy because the politicalized judiciary oversees the legislative body in parliamentary democracy according to the Constitution, oversees governance according to law in all legal and procedures and guarantees the basic rights and freedoms of an independent and impartial citizen. What fundamental rights and freedoms can such a hormonal political judgment maintain? Today I feel sad and ashamed to tell you. We're going through an environment where they're grouped to threaten the judge, and they can't talk to each other in court, and they can't greet each other. In the last HSYK election, judges were separated based on ethnic, belief, sectarian origins and members of the HSYK were formed based on these fundamentals. There is a very serious perception in the form of this very serious perception that will lead the interethnic, political thought and sectarian conflict into the HSYK. We see the bottom of this conflict in the courthouses. That's what the judgment is about, dear friends, and we see the sign of it in this law, as if it were a bridge connection. And that sign is that, as in the 2010 Constitutional Amendment, a freaking proposal has been made to bypass the General Assembly of the Bar Association: the choice of bar presidents will be made. My dear friends, rights, law, mathematics. So if our minds are too affected to work for justice, then there's math. At Bayburtt, the number of lawyers is not more than ten, it has one vote; Istanbul has 50, 60,000 lawyers, and the president of the Bar has one vote. Is that a thing? We've given up this, this democracy, justice, law, rights, and he's got no place in math. So this sentence is exactly the same here. Now, Minister, we propose a motion to change that -- and we have other reasons -- to make it possible for all four political parties to act from a point in the Constitutional Compromise Commission to create full independence and neutrality. According to this motion, members from public organs are being removed, such as representatives from the Ministry of Justice, the Capital Market Foundation. Representatives from the Association of Bars, the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey, or other public institutions that may be considered civil initiative, are the general boards to determine four candidates for each representative against one representative in a vote with a single vote. These four candidates, four candidate candidates, will be publicly evaluated and heard by the Turkish Grand National Assembly Justice Commission. The commission's report will come to the General Assembly and will be elected each representative with a majority of two-thirds -- if it can be met. This means that the number two-thirds have an agreement on the neutrality of the chosen one. Therefore, after such an important agreement, there is no concern that the chosen person will be neutral and properly served. If two-thirds of the majority can't be reached in both votes, then there will be a draw in parliament among the four candidates. As a result of the draw, the person named after him will be the representative. In this way, the influence of politics will be removed from the International Court of Investigation, the National Court of Investigation, and the Istanbul Research Centre. My dear friends, we hope that this proposal will be evaluated. In this and other proposals related to the judiciary, the Justice and Development Party said yes, but only because of the presidential system. If you consider it within this scope, we will continue to contribute positively during the negotiations of the law text. No, no. If you say no, we will shield our chests, as we oppose the AKP's judiciary, we will oppose the appearance of an AKP Istanbul Research Centre. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0162par0098	Thank you, Mr. Honey. On behalf of the individuals, the last word is from Mr. Kamer. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0163par0102	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the first chapter of the Istanbul Research Centre Bill. My respects to all of you. Now, dear friends, I'm a law enforcement officer for years. Now, we're bringing in an arbitration center system, but what are the discrepancies that are going to be the subject of investigation in this arbitration system, which is not specified here. So what's he saying? ▪ Central's duties: 1) Set the rules on the rules of the examination and alternative discrepancy solutions... What conflicts will be the subject of investigation? Let's know about him first. Then, to determine these alternative methods... well, that's how the board of inquiry will work, how many people will decide, what they'll decide, what they'll have to do. The person who determines these things is also stated in the law, which is completely against the principle of law enforcement to recognize the authority to set rules on an arbitration board without being specified in the law. Now, of course, what sort of things will be resolved here? Now, my dear friends, the judgment, unfortunately, was already derailed by the arrival of Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ. You know, I gave a speech when the entire law on this was being discussed, and I said, here's Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ, Chief Public Prosecutor of İzmir Chief Public Prosecutor Hüseyin, to establish, to manage, to become a criminal organization for profit, to become a member of the organization, to engage in bribery, to spread corruption into the tender, to change the irretribution, qualified fraud charges of 2011/12445, to call the Attorney General of Izmir and say that he's calling the Attorney of the Republic of İzmir on the issue... that he's calling on the issue of this case... and Ken Silk -- I'm not saying that I don't say that I don't have enough time here -- Hüseyin Başaya't want to talk about this. Who says that? Undersecretary of Justice Kenan Silk. After him, Bekir Bozdağ takes the phone again, it says here: "On 2007/01/2014, when he was working in the office of Chief Public Prosecutor Hüseyin Chief of İzmir, Mr. Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ was called in -- and after his secretary -- he said that he was reported again because of those crimes, because of... So, after Mr. Bekir asked him briefly, he said, "Well, you know, they've been briefed, people are being treated, people are being treated carefully in the investigation, they're being called to the detention site, they're being taken from the Republican Prosecutor's office about the investigation and the investigation is being conducted by the Attorney General himself." Now, it also says in an investigation conducted in Adana: Bekir Bozdağ took the phone, Mr. Minister of Justice, and said that the truck, which is the sum of the report, belonged to the MİT law, was subject to the Prime Minister's permission to conduct an investigation against MIT officials due to the special regulation of the MIT law, so that the prosecutor in charge can't search this truck, and that the Minister of Interior and MIT's Minister of Justice has been present in the truck, and that they say that they are lying and that the informant is correct, and that they are saying that they are saying that they are saying that they have not been able to hold the law, and that I am using my authority, and that the prosecutor is not able to send him to the authorities to the authorities, and that they are not looking for the authorities. Now, can you imagine? Bekir Bozdağ, who resides in the Ministry of Justice, has this much influence on the judiciary, says, "Don't make these cases." When I said here, he came out to me and said, "He's a bastard and a bastard who doesn't prove that I said these things." Did you or did you not make these phone calls? Who's the bastard and the bastard now, so let's find a middle ground for him. The Attorney General's first call to the Attorney General, then to the Undersecretary himself... Friends, is there a judgment in a country like this? Recep Erdogan is bringing his lawyer's brother to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. I'm going, he's coming in front of me -- we're suing for damages -- the judge is ruling against the case we're 100% right about. Friends, is there such a thing as judgment in the country? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] How are we supposed to win a case? On whose behalf do we defend our rights? Turkey, that's Bekir Bozdağ and his government, unfortunately, has destroyed justice so much, it's neutralized it. It's hard to live in Turkey with such justice. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0164par0115	Thank you. Moving on to QA. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0165par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Right now, Minister, how many arbitration commissions are there in Turkey? And at the same time, how many files have come in to reduce the work of the judge? And the number of these files comes to every commission, every inquiry... What are the disagreements usually, is there any problems that are born here? I mean, what's the rate of reducing the burden of judgment? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0166par0121	Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0167par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, what action has been made by your government against the declarations of autonomy made by the PKK's youth organisation in the face of recent events in Cizre and Silvio? Is there any procedure or file that's been brought to the court on this matter? What's the situation now? How is this declaration of autonomy judged by your government? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0168par0125	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0169par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there's nothing in this bill on how to elect these judges, how to appeal judges and decisions. Now, what I want to ask you here is, is will he set these rules in his own hands? If he is, isn't that the law? Who can rely on such an instigation that determines its own way? Could he have a business or a business in the world that would accept such a centre? What kind of board would that be? How's a board of inquiry going to work that doesn't have a court of law? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0170par0129	Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0171par0130	Mr. Secretary, are there any arrests for two years of convictions? In Turkey, in terrorism, honest citizens are victimized, vehicles burned, beaten, shop hit, and no one caught in contact with them. The government's paying for the land. Do you plan on making a study to make those who did this to pay for it? How many prisoners are in prison, and each prisoner gets a bed? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0172par0133	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0173par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, any addition to this December 17th operation has been fixed with a report from Forensics, where there is no forgery. You've been a lawyer for years, and I've been a lawyer for years, and when the D.A. sent the case to the coroner, no state's attorney's office has made a decision or made a non-obsolving decision before that file was filed by the coroner. Right now, in the history of Turkish law, how would you react if you, as the Ministry, received a written order not to be discredited in the case of December 17th, when the expert has sent his file to the expert and decided not to follow without a report? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0174par0137	Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0175par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, a few days ago, you made a statement to the media that when the so-called solution process is concluded, all martyrs will pray to God. I want to understand, so how will the martyr pray that the AKP has finished the solution process and ended up negotiating with the PKK? Is this a statement you made in your faith, or was it an article given to you as part of a perception operation? I wonder how you could use a sentence like that. I'd appreciate it if you could explain it.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0174par0140	Mr. Tanal... Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in this bill, of course, most of the chosen ones, more or less, can be chosen by power, the majority is seen that way. Doesn't that undermine the principle of neutrality and independence in terms of administrative and central autonomy? Thank you. Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0176par0145	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, with this bill, this bill is just a structurally-responsive centre, without material rules of inquiry. In fact, the rules to be carried out in the investigation are by the parties themselves. In addition, the material rules are laid out in both the Law on International Research 4686 and Law on Law Number 6100. In Law No. 6100, provisions have been issued for the court's review of referee's decisions. When it is established, the centre will establish its rules based on models of established arbitration practices such as the ICC and UNCITRAL. It has made it more effective and attractive to apply for an investigation through these arrangements. The basis is adopted as soon as the arbitration decisions are made to encourage the prosecution. In this way, the investigation was able to be brought in quickly. Now, of course, it's kind of like an official article, but I'd like to say, in fact, as a matter of my own knowledge, that the law is essentially an organization for liability, it's an agency law. The arrangements for which the investigation will be conducted are in the International Law of Reconstruction, and if an international witness will be involved in it. If the national witness is involved, then the HMK has a sentence, which will be applied in that framework. So, this law does not include regulations concerning the procedure, it only includes arrangements for the organization, and I would like to express it in particular. Of course, there are two questions for Mr. Light, in the face of the events in Cizre, I'd like to say by combining them, he spoke about autonomy. These expressions can only mean something to those who say it, perhaps they can use them to satisfy themselves, but in terms of the state of the Republic of Turkey, these are the things that are destroyed. We all know no one's ever respected them. If there are criminal issues, the republic's prosecutors are already authorized and authorized to open a resen investigation. As a matter of fact, I didn't have the opportunity to get an immediate answer, but I'd like to find out and share it with you. Of course, I recently said in Antalya, when I spoke about the solution process, I said that the success of the solution process would not affect the souls of our martyrs. Because in criticism, there are criticisms that say: "Does not the process of solution satisfy the spirit of our martyrs? " I answered them, and I said, according to our belief, the martyrs are alive, not called dead. In the realm of Mana, the Lord extends to them in his own knowledge, and that is the way we believe. Let all our martyrs end in terror. Let me be the last martyr, no more martyrs. Let the tears stop, let the blood stop. In fact, let this issue come out of Turkey's agenda. They have been martyred. Otherwise, I'm a martyr, and someone else is a martyr. My mother cried and someone else's mother cried. We believe that the terror did not end while I was fighting, nor did it ever end. We believe that he did not fight the battle of testimony with the thought of it. Their whole struggle is Turkey, where terror is over, blood is no more, tears are no more, Mehmets are no more martyrs, but other mothers don't cry. If the solution process is successful, that's exactly what I've established -- if the weapons are abandoned, if peace climate in Turkey becomes a permanent climate, then our martyrs won't be disturbed, their souls won't be exposed, they won't be hurt, they'll be pleased because our brothers, our sons, they'll be pleased that they've succeeded.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0177par0149	Mr. Secretary, there are no BDP people here.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0176par0150	I have the same faith. No martyr will be a martyr after this, so that there will be other martyrs. If his thing is in the fight against terrorism, the goal is to end terrorism. The main goal of the solution process, of course, is to end terrorism. I'd like to express that in particular.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0178par0151	What do you give in return?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0176par0152	We have a congressman asking for the number of prisoners. There are now 155,869 people in prison today. Of these, 22,609 are prisoners, and 133,254 are also convicted. There's a bed for every prisoner and prisoner, and there's no problem at that point, so I'd like to express that in particular.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0179par0153	Mr. Secretary, are you sure? That's why there was a riot in Izmit Prison recently.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0176par0154	Of course, now, in Izmit, that prison, we closed it, you know, we closed it.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0179par0155	I know, but 120 people sleep in 70 beds.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0176par0156	Look, there's nothing wrong with it right now, okay? We've transplanted those people, we're fine. I mean, I'd like to say once again that there's nothing wrong with that point. Of course, in our country, there is a limited rate of resorting to investigations and alternative discrepancy solutions, compared to the number of discrepancies in the application of these methods. The number of annual investigations seen in Turkey is estimated to be between 150 and 200, and most of them are foreign. In New York, there are over 50,000 investigations carried out by the American Association of Investigations. I mean, right now, the number in Turkey isn't so high, but we're hoping that this could go up even further after the arbitration law. The question of how the judges will be elected is that right now the parties will choose it according to... and the parties will choose it, and if they don't agree, then they'll go to court. It's supposed to be a single number, it's a number of sides, and if the parties don't agree, there's got to be three. One of the three sides chooses the other one, and if they disagree with the other, the two judges choose the third. It is held in the 7th article of our law on this matter, which is clearly arranged in Article 7 of the International Law on Reconstruction. It's also the process of trial, which is the issue of this claim, especially if the international instigation law states that if you do what we call a national witness, you'll be doing it in accordance with the HMK.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0180par0159	Set it up here, why are you running a cross-country investigation?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0176par0160	Is there a warrant for arrest in two years? That's right, right now the 100th article of the CMC has a ban on arrests in crimes that require two years in prison. Of course, in the Child Protection Act, it has been a ban on arrest for three years. I mean, there's a difference between a simple beating and a qualified beating, especially in relation to these acts of battery that are disrupting public order. Qualified battery is basically an arrest, but simple battery is a ban on arrest, where it enters due to a lack of punishment. Does he need to make an adjustment here? As a matter of fact, I believe he needs to make an adjustment, too, because it's terribly wrong for people to come in through one door and walk out the other door at a point where they're uncomfortable and they're being hit. As the Ministry of this, we are also preparing, and I want to express it specifically, and I want you to know that we're doing a study here that evaluates punishment. Of course, there are new regulations in the security package on this shooting, breaking, burning issue, which is likely to come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the coming days. The issue of compensation is that compensation is already possible according to general provisions, but other than that, I know there are additional arrangements in this security package, and when it does, Parliament will consider it anyway. It's about the non-obstructive decision, it's about the forensics, Mr. Tanal asked. Of course, the coroner's report and the D.A. who went to the D.A.'s office didn't decide until after the report came in, so he decided, in fact, what I know is...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0181par0165	I'll add two minutes.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0182par0166	No minister of the Republic of Turkey read their intentions about our people who were martyrs in Turkey and became martyrs so that no one else would die here. They can't say or speak for them. Our soldiers who were martyrs in Turkey...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0181par0167	Yeah, now, okay, okay...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0182par0168	They were martyrs so that the land of the Republic of Turkey would not be divided.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0183par0169	Congressman, please don't twist what I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0182par0170	Those who are martyred in Turkey have been martyred so that this country will not be divided...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0183par0171	Look, what I said...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0182par0172	In the name of the martyrs, a minister cannot speak for them.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0184par0173	Mr. President, is that possible? It can't be done. Shut him up.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0185par0174	How do I shut him up? I'm gonna take a break, we're gonna go, okay...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0184par0175	Mr. President, shut him up.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0185par0176	Mr. Elitaş, what should I do? How do I shut him up? I'm telling you. We're all fighting right now.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0186par0177	Mr. President, I made it very clear...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0187par0178	No minister of the Republic of Turkey, they were martyred here so that no one else would die. He cannot speak for the martyrs. It's wrong, it's not right. The soldiers of the Republic of Turkey have been martyred for the unity and unity of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0185par0179	Please, we understand, but it's not the way it is, Congressman... it's not the way we do things.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0188par0180	Mr. Secretary, keep talking.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0185par0181	Yes, please.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0189par0182	Mr. President, of course, I'd like to thank you, but I'd like you to read back what I'm saying. I explained what I said. Our martyrs, of course, have been martyred for the fluctuation of our moon-star flag, the unity of our country, and the stopping of blood, terror in this country. Otherwise, they're not fighting for the flag of this country, for my land. As I said, it's your assessment, but I'm telling you very clearly that all our martyrs are alive according to our faith, and it's not our place to make their assessment. May Allah grant us their intercession. We believe so, we know so, but our martyrs have been martyred in the indivisible integrity of this country, the moon-star flag, and the fact that other people are not at least martyrs in the fight against terrorism after all, while fighting for the end of terror. I don't think any of our martyrs cried and someone else's mother cried. I don't think he's a martyr, if that's what you think he is. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit07spe0185par0184	Okay, we're done. Yeah, I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit08spe0185par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume negotiations with Bill 640 from where we left off. The Commission and the Government are here. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions in Article 1, which I will have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the First Amendment. We propose and propose the addition of the term "purposed" in Article 4686 under the Inter-National Court of Investigation. Faruk Bal Emin Çınar Lütfu Türkkan Ahmet Duran Bulut Yusef Halaçoğlu D. Ali Torlak Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1st Amendment bill of İstanbul Centre of Investigation, 640 rows in session. We submit and propose that the following joke be added to the article. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Ömer Suha Aldan Ali Riza Özturk Gürkut Acar Turgut Dibek This law does not apply incompatible disputes over the same rights to non-movable goods found in Turkey and in conflict with the will of the two parties." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of the 1st article of the current law, which is 640 rows, be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit08spe0190par0029	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit08spe0185par0030	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit08spe0191par0031	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit08spe0185par0032	Read the reason, please. The essence of the legal arrangement is to help global companies create their own judicial systems, for reasons such as problems with current trials, the lack of trust in the judiciary, the lack of objective decisions, the length of trial due to workloads and lack of hardware. Instead of making the national judicial mechanism functional and making it possible for these problems to be resolved, it is difficult to create a binary judicial system with such mechanisms. The amendment aims to prevent any inconveniences in this matter from being subject to investigation under what circumstances, as well as the fact that the investigation mechanism is not clearly included in what tasks to cover. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1st Amendment bill of İstanbul Centre of Investigation, 640 rows in session. We submit and propose that the following joke be added to the article. This law does not apply incompatible disputes over the same rights to non-movable goods found in Turkey and in conflict with the will of the two parties." Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit08spe0192par0042	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit08spe0185par0043	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit08spe0193par0044	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit08spe0185par0045	Mr. Kokturk, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit08spe0194par0047	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the first amendment, which determines the procedure and the basis of the institutional structure and activities of the bill, with the establishment of the centre of inquiry, titled purpose and scope. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the situation of alternative conflict solutions, such as inquiry and mediation, has brought a lot of criticism and criticism in favour of the national judiciary. It is said that there should be preferential measures for the protection of social peace due to the contribution of entity's will, the shorter cost of conflict, the less efficient and relatively expensive solutions, the reduction of the workload of courts, the covertness of their decisions, the ease of their execution and the prevalence of their decisions, are the result of many economic and political developments in the world, as well as of other alternative conflict resolution solutions, but the fact is that more and more of these reasons than the fact. As Mr. Halil Yilmaz's international investigations have made clear in his article, multinational capital has also entered into the trend of expanding and changing international relations and has sought ways to settle in cross-border areas. On the other hand, they have prepared the means to attract investments made by foreign capital in low-level countries in order to prevent unemployment, economic strengthening, and overcoming other business problems. In this context, multinational capital wants to secure its economic and profitable existence, and in this sense it sees the national judiciary of the country it invests in as an obstacle, and as an alternative solution to the national judiciary, the conjecture is a condition. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as we look at the development of the inquiry in our country, this picture is clearly seen. As the first steps of the inquiry in the pre-Republic period, the amendments in 1856, as stated in the bill, appear in front of us. The date is when the Ottoman Empire entered the collapse, and the Western pressure felt the most intense. During this period, the Ottoman State took its first foreign debt from England in 1854 and imposed foreign debt 15 times between 1854 and 1874, including the pressure of these loans, and the laws of land sale and the regulations mentioned to foreigners. However, valuable lawmakers, as we all know, such regulations have not been sufficient to prevent the Ottoman decline and collapse. The Ottoman tax revenues have been confiscated by the Western states, and the bankruptcy of the Ottoman treasure has been declared clear. Dear lawmakers, the general reason for this bill is that the desire to attract foreign capital lies in order to strengthen the legal structure of the Istanbul financial centre, and that the provision of the Istanbul Central Court's Law shall be drawn up in parallel with the historical process and the reasons for the exit of the indictment. Istanbul will become a financial centre, and as a guarantee of foreign capital, Istanbul will be a centre of inquiry. Dear lawmakers, in light of these general assessments, the basic function of the state should never be forgotten, even though critics of the inevitability of world order and the inevitability of globalisation have been criticised by the prosecution and alternative methods of conflict. The basic function of the state, as we all know, is legislation, execution and judgment. These three functions form the essential structure of the state, and the overall era of these functions is never at stake. In this sense, as a result, the investigation is an exceptional form of judgment; it's primarily about strengthening, activating, and making the national judicial system reliable. Unfortunately, however, the AKP has brought judgment to its conclusion in the process we left behind. Today, the judiciary and the congregation's judiciary are divided into. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He gave up his goal to achieve justice, and it became a mechanism for laundering corruption. However, we will never give up our ideal, our goal, and our struggle. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit08spe0195par0058	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit08spe0196par0059	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit08spe0195par0060	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit09spe0195par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the 1st Article of the Law Bill 640, there was not enough decision in the vote of Mr. Ali İhsan Kokturk and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. I'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I give you ten minutes to the union; you have stayed with 133, and gather, and come, and wait.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0195par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the tenth session of the 16th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The second vote of Mr. Ali İhsan Kokturk and his friends' motion on the 1st Article of the 640th Amendment was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. The Commission and the Government are here. I'm reading another motion on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the First Amendment. We propose and propose the addition of the term "purposed" in Article 4686 under the Inter-National Court of Investigation. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0197par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0195par0013	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0198par0014	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0195par0015	One moment, Mr. Honey... Congressmans, don't go too far, we're voting every five minutes, but please don't make a noise, because I didn't hear the clerk read it, please. Mr. Honey, here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0199par0019	Mr. President, in my speech on the first chapter, we have explained that this bill will be based on AKP's political will, according to Article 6 of the organisation established under the name Istanbul Research Centre. This law, which would be based on AKP's political will, pointed to the use of public resources in legal conflicts that could be born, in terms of international arbitration and in terms of national arbitration, or the use of political will as a pressure on the arbitration centre. We proposed a truly independent, truly neutral election procedure and the general central structure of the 6th article, which was related to this mark, and we also submitted this proposal to the Minister. If such an independent and neutral body could be formed, the National Movement Party would support it and contribute to positive improvement of substances, maturity. So far, no response has been received to our proposal. Now, we've made a amendment motion to the 1st Amendment. Article 1 determines the purpose and scope of the law. We demand that the purpose and scope of the law be corrected by a motion that will show that the Law on International Research shall be carried out in accordance with its laws and our laws of national investigations. This will be an arrangement for its operation under the International Law on Reconstruction 4686. If there are no laws on national arbitration which this is not implemented, the Istanbul Research Centre will organise its field of activity, which is unlimited, not limited to these. According to Article 12 of the bill, the International Court of Investigation has been established, and the National Court of Investigation has been established, there will be a judicial action since there have been appeals made to these Courts of Appeals again. What do we do if Law 4686, Law 4686, does not make it possible for us to implement this action, if, for example, a restraining order issued by a foreign-based contract on real estates found in Turkey? Or, the discrepancies of Turkey's public order or born against the will of the parties are out of question. What happens when he decides to be in charge around here? This is chaos. The meaning of this chaos is that we're dealing with a bill that has no legal credibility. The principle of legal credibility is the basis of the investigation, so there will be a safe law, where there will be a reliable system, where there will be foreign capital and domestic capital, so that people who bind themselves to the terms of the contract may be able to apply, with ease, to meet the requirements. Now, this is the first suggestion we have that we can deal with those flaws. We will continue to contribute positively to the maturity of the bill until the 6th article, but the 6th article says that if it is fully accepted, we will use all of our resources to make it a hormonal and obese judiciary, like an AKP judiciary, which is political, hormonal, obese, and obese.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0200par0023	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0201par0025	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0200par0026	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... I do it with electronics. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three proposals in Article 2. I'll have them read and processed in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2nd of the Istanbul Research Centre Charter, which is currently in session, 640 rows. We offer and propose that he be removed from the text of the article. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Ali Riza Özturk Jesus Gök Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2nd of the Common Bill of the Law We offer and propose that the clause of the article be removed from the text of the substance, which is provided to him by law and by law. Faruk Bal Lütfü Türkkan Emin Çınar Ahmet Duran Bulut Yusef Halaçoğlu D. Ali Torlak Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the Law Bill 640 be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0202par0055	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0200par0056	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0203par0057	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0200par0058	Read the reason, please. Reason: The amendment aims to avoid the difficulties of the Istanbul Research Centre, which will be established, under which conditions it has not been applied. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2nd of the Common Bill of the Law We offer and propose that the clause of the article be removed from the text of the substance, which is provided to him by law and by law. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0204par0066	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0200par0067	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0205par0068	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0200par0069	Mr. Honey, here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0206par0071	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our proposal will probably be rejected again after the vote, but I would like to read with the law to allow you to evaluate our amendment motion. If there's any sense, if there's logic, if there's any evidence, if there's a conscience, you'll consider it. Article 2: Why is the Istanbul Research Centre established to ensure the implementation of this Law and to carry out its duties with the Law? He's about to do his duty by law. Does that mean anything to you? No. There's a duty given by the law, which is to establish this center. Thus, we have submitted the motion to ensure that the declaration of the Law, given to him, is removed from the text. I probably don't read the code, but he's always reading the intention. You're saying it's going to be rejected because I don't think you're seriously looking at what this law is going to bring, what it's going to take. In accordance with the decisions that have been made, the fingers will rise and fall, but ultimately, Turkey will face an arrangement that will cause serious problems with the investigation. Turkey has suffered a lot; it has paid with painful experience how many pines have been knocked down, how many mistakes have been made, in the laws that the AKP has passed by order, by order, by control of lawmakers. We're all going to have those painful experiences together here, but I'm expressing them for your lessons. The errors made in the 2010 Constitutional Amendment are in this law. Instead of the general decision of the bar board in the 2010 high-judgment elections, the people who would be elected by the bar presidents' votes were moved to high justice. You all agree that those who moved in later caused enough trouble with the threat to be fought by the AKP himself, and you're dragging Turkey into a turbulence in that struggle. This law contains the same material. If you don't learn from the past, the future is destined to make mistakes. Thus, in the first articles, we propose that by repeating our suggestions, these criticisms, the mind, the conscience, the sign, and a law that suits Turkey, not just Turkey, but Turkey, be matured to serve this goal as a front step, such as New York, New York, Paris, to become an international arbitration centre. If you call it what I say, if you call it a whistle, you will be condemned to face the problems of the judiciary in Turkey in general, and you will make a mistake in both Turkish law and international law, which can lead to other challenges, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0207par0077	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0208par0078	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0207par0079	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who agree, those who refuse, there is enough to decide, they are denied. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2nd of the Istanbul Research Centre Charter, which is currently in session, 640 rows. We offer and propose that he be removed from the text of the article. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0209par0086	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0207par0087	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0210par0088	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0207par0089	Mr. Erdoğdu, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0211par0091	Mr. President, the Honourable MPs, the İstanbul Research Centre Act 640, is actually a draft bill that has been passed in front of us as part of the Istanbul financial centre strategy. Now, we're thinking, could there be a financial market like Istanbul, Hong Kong, New York, or London, one of these financial markets that is the fortress of capitalism? It doesn't seem possible, because the main thing about financial markets is that they need basic concepts, such as transparency, competition, law enforcement, the legal state. However, does the Istanbul financial centre, which the government intends to establish, meet those standards? As you look at it, essentially, we're actually seeing Istanbul's effort to sell it to the public as the financial center of property projects on the Anatolian coast, and I'm going to tell you about the network of corruption and fraud in the sub-relations of this Istanbul financial center through the construction of Istanbul Financial Park, and I'm going to remind you about that. And everything I'm reminding you, dear friends, I'm going to make it through the Court Report of the Public Housing Administration. Istanbul is building a construction company called New Sarp Construction. How do we know this New Sarp Construction Company? There's a company called KC Group in the operations of the Public Housing Administration in 2004 and 2005. He's building a product-sharing model. What's a cut? The land is owned by the state, and they build and divide dwellings on it, and an tender for close to 450 million dollars is given to KC Group. The housing here is state-owned, part state-owned, and the Public Housing Administration is giving power over a company that's about to go under, and its partners, Doğancan and Demer, start two companies and transfer these properties over to this company. Doğancan and Demer companies also go to Denizbank and receive a 150 million-dollar loan. The loan can't be paid, and Denizbank is starting a real estate company called Pupa Corporation, and after the roundabout transactions, the government's homes are being seized, and they're being put on the market, and the housing in the state's hands are leaving. As a result of these transactions, the Public Housing Administration is losing $65m, and an investigation is under way, because it's a crime to be given these power of attorney, which is to be given the power of sale, and there's another incomprehensible procedure to be done because they're going to pay for this crime to the executives of the era. The partners and associates of this KC Group are starting a new company. This company is called the New Sarp Corporation and the government's conglomerate is receiving a new $450 million bid from the New Sarp Corporation. The money to be made from these jobs is supposed to be paid to defraud the government, and it's supposed to be closed. What's this New Sarp Construction Company doing? This is the Istanbul Financial Center Project, which the law brings to our attention, which I said at the beginning, is building Istanbul Financial Park, which is a real estate project and is involved in fraud and corruption networks. And that's what he's staying with? The real heartbreaking point, my friends, is that this is also the company that builds the houses in Samsun Canik, a creek bed in Samsun. What happens after building a creek bed? The floods flood, 11 lives in the basements, the basements of TOKI construction. Now, as a result of this network of fraud, not only does our government, our people, lose money, but somehow people end up dying at the end of these projects. Now, here we come, we'll make Istanbul a financial center. Like we said at the beginning, could there be a financial center like Istanbul, New York, Hong Kong, London? Oh, no, guys, because there's no rule of law in this country, there's no competition in this country. The main goal of this country's public projects is to transfer funds to certain environments, to companies close to the government. You can't build a financial center by doing this, and by doing so, you can only increase Istanbul's urban problems in Istanbul through real estate numbers, through land numbers, and leave a lot of heavy problems for the rest of you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0212par0099	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0213par0101	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0212par0102	I submit the item to your votes...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0213par0103	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0212par0104	It's okay. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0213par0106	It didn't.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0212par0107	Okay, fine. I'll call the number of decisions I need. I do electronics, give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Matter accepted. There's enough to make a decision. In Article 3 there are three motions, which I read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 3rd draft of the Istanbul Research Centre Act, which is currently in session, 640 rows. In the application of the law in the matter, we offer and propose that the declaration of the law be removed from the text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Ali Riza Özturk Jesus Gök Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 3rd Amendment to the Common Law. Article 1 of the article. We offer and offer to add c to the joke. President: Chairman of the Governing Body Faruk Bal Lütfü Türkkan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Çınar Ahmet Duran Bulut D. Ali Torlak Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of the Law Bill 640 be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Erol Dora Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0214par0135	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0212par0136	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0215par0137	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0212par0138	Read the reason. The amendment aims to prevent the conditions in which this clause should be applied, and to prevent the shortcomings of the Istanbul Research Centre, which will be established, which will be created in the judicial mechanism.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0216par0143	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit10spe0212par0144	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Acar, Mr. Öz, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Tüçük, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Köçoğlu, Mr. Dinçer. I'll start roll call, give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit11spe0212par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th Session of the 16th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough attendance in the roll call before the vote of Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan and his friends on Article 3 of the Law Bill 640. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 3rd of the Common Legislature. Article 1 of the article. We offer and offer to add c to the joke. President: Chairman of the Governing Body Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit11spe0217par0021	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit11spe0212par0022	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit11spe0218par0023	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit11spe0212par0024	Mr. Honey, here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit11spe0219par0025	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we'd like to draw your attention to the chairman of the board with our motion on this matter. While the board is being formed with fine accounts, it is predetermined who it will be, who its adjectives will be defined, who will be a lawyer, who will be the general secretary of the board, and, as a result, the polls have been calculated accordingly. The chairman of the board is not only busy managing, he is also a member of the International Court of Investigation, along with the general secretary he has chosen, and he is also a member of the National Court of Investigation. Thus, according to the resolution of Article 7 of the bill, the judicial objection will be decided and the governing board shall be determined according to the form of political will, which has been decided. My dear friends, it's called creating an organ that has nothing to do with legal security, which has nothing to do with independence and neutrality, which can decide whether political will should be resolved by legal and trade conflicts. What international capital, what international investors, what international financial environments, who have come to Turkey to invest in this body, will also apply for an investigation? If such a situation happens, they will not go to Istanbul foreclosure boards. Instead, by going to the AKP headquarters, the Ministry of Justice, the Prime Minister and the presidency, the men you elected will look at our conflict. After all, your alo lines are open; take action from lines such as Alo Fatih, Alo Opposition, Alo Court, Ålo İstanbul Research Centre, and take care of this business. My dear friends, this is the most important situation that we're concerned about, and we're concerned about. With very good intentions, we're trying to establish the Istanbul outpost, we're trying to give positive support, but we're also in resistance to the people who are trying to undermine the right to orphans, to sit in the seats set up at the sacred table, to take away the rights of orphans, and to protect them. So, this law is made up of an international and international arbitration court that will be established at the arbitration centers, which will serve the investors who will be subjected to public resources, who will be waiting at the sacred table. In this bill, the existence of a structure that reveals so much political color, is established in the modern-day form of what you refer to as a system of structures to deal with certain conflicts. This scheme operates in a field that should have nothing to do with judgment or justice, but we've all seen the example together that the plots are based on justice in the AKP's power. The disparaging of Turkish Armed Forces with the schemes of the judiciary has been carried out, discredited, moral and motivation, and now, after the transfer of capital, the goal of attracting public resources through law is aimed at attracting the newly transferred capital to those who support it. I hope you'll support our motion to prevent that goal from being carried out, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit11spe0220par0032	Thank you, Mr. Honey. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 3rd draft of the Istanbul Research Centre Act, which is currently in session, 640 rows. In the application of the law in the Article, we provide and propose that the declaration of the law be removed from the text. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit11spe0221par0039	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit11spe0220par0040	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-19sit11spe0222par0041	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit11spe0220par0042	Mr. Erdoğdu, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit11spe0223par0044	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're supposed to want to establish an arbitration center to strengthen our legal system, but I want to discuss our legal system again over an incident and tell you whether or not this inquiry center will be useful after all. Dear friends, this year 1998, the public bank, the public bank, is using a loan to the MEKSAN Anonymous Corporation, which uses a loan of $5,900,000. The firm is in trouble, it's being restructured on 21/6/2000, and it's being followed by $6 million. About 15 years ago, the People's Bank has a $6 million purchase, and the largest land in Istanbul against it is a land of 5 million square feet in the village of Pendik Ballica, a priceless plot. And there's also a guarantor for this loan, President Avni Çelik of the SINPAŞ Anonymous Corporation. Now, let's take a look at these events. Then, on 14/7/2009, the People's Bank sends a $137 trillion payment order to this MEKSAN Anonymous Company with today's money. After that, there's an unequivocally second payment order, a loan of $137 trillion reduced to 51 trillion. And then, in the most beautiful part of Istanbul, Halkbank transfers this loan to the Aqaba Corporation, which has 5 million square metres of collateral and is the guarantor of a very respected and powerful businessman, without making any tenders, without asking anyone, for the money that day, for $22-23 million. The partners of this Aqaba Corporation are very interesting. There's a businessman named Tophead, Abdullah Tivnikli, who has a brother within the Governing Body who is close to former politicians, one of the top politicians, and this Aqabe Corporation, without any competition, is taking over 22 trillion liras that the People's Bank will receive, the first payment order. And then what happens? After that, it's business. Istanbul's most valuable land was a guarantee of this loan, and this guaranteed land is being put on the market. However, when it's being put on sale, the land that needs to be sold in open tenders is being put up for sale by one company. The firm is called Trust Energy. Where does Trust Energy come from? A company with 5,000 liras of capital buys $40 million in guarantees from the financial institution that belongs to these individuals, and Trust Energy and Aqaba Corporation operate at the same address. Partners of Trust Energy, employees of the partners of the Aqaba Corporation and Trust Energy Company are taking this $120 million land -- and there are reports that this is worth a minimum of 500-600 trillion -- for $120,2,000, dear friends. And what happens when you look at the whole process? The People's Bank transfers the land, which it says will receive $137 million with the first payment order, and the land, which has very strong guarantees against it, to this company for 22 trillion liras, to the best land in Istanbul, to 120 million in non-competitive ways. As you look at the result, while the People's Bank is losing 110 million liras, those who organise the transaction are both closing Istanbul's cheapest coupon plot at the cheapest price, and they're costing the People's Bank $110m. Now, do you know why I told you this? The evidence I used here is all here, so I can deliver it whenever you want. The evidence I'm using doesn't have the slightest amount of wiretap, no police listening. I told you that a year ago in this House. This is a corruption claim that was investigated on December 17th and 25th, dear friends. But what happened? İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office... closed the 17th and 25 December files at İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office without even bringing them to court. Now, without seeing a judge, with so much evidence and serious claims, if the biggest claim of corruption in the history of the Republic of Turkey, even in the history of the world, is being closed, then the law of inquiry you have brought is merely a hoax. You can't fix this legal system by default. My advice to you is that this case is not going to close, it's not really going to close. Take this to independent judgment now. We don't know if you've been hit, but what we do know is that these allegations are very serious, and these allegations need to be tried. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-19sit11spe0224par0053	[[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 4. Members of the Parliament, there is a motion in accordance with Article 70 of the Interior Charter, which states that the motions of the Law Bill 640 are to be discussed in closed session. I'm reading the motion for closed session: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to request that the motion of Article 4 of Law 640 be carried out in closed session. The audience and the officials who are not members of the General Assembly, who can be present at the closed session, must go outside. I'd like to ask your supervisors to ensure that the hall is cleared. I submit to your votes that sworn stenographers and other sworn officers will remain in the hall: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We're going to closed session.
