tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The visit to our country along with a parliamentary delegation, along with Mr Andrew Scheer, president of the House of Commons of the Canadian Parliament, was adopted by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Court of President 27/2/2014 and by its resolution 67. The visit of the delegation to our country will be presented to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of Law No. 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey must contribute to measures taken by all world countries to halt global warming. In order to prevent global warming and reduce the damage it will see, energy investments should be directed towards solar and wind energy, monitoring ecological balance in agricultural policies and preventing any droughts and problems related to global warming. In this area, environmentally sensitive studies should be carried out, not preventing economic growth, thinking about the future of our country. Turkey's Kyoto Protocol has pledged to sign the Kyoto Protocol in 2009 to reduce the emissions of gases that have caused carbon dioxide and greenhouse effects and take measures for that. The costs of doing all of this, the implementation of the signed Kyoto Protocol, and the impact of sanctions on our economy if this protocol is not followed, are to be opened by Parliamentary investigations of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98th, TBMM Institution, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. [[Erzincan]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 3) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 4) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 5) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Aydın]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] 16) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Hatay]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 21) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 22) Cervix of Love [[İzmir]] From the formation of our world to the present day, changes in climates have been made by natural processes. The Earth's seasonal movements, changes in the axis slope, changes in the atmosphere and changes in the surface, continent movements, mountain formations have been a determinant of short or long-term changes in climates. Climates have always been variable since the world existed. Ecosystems and living species have also created the emergence of today's biological diversity, depending on these changes that have been seen in the past. Our country is favourable and vulnerable to climate diversity due to its geographical position and physical geography conditions. The rapid development in industry today has led to increasing environmental problems and climate change based on global warming as a result of increased greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. The greenhouse gases that lead to global warming are mainly caused by burning fossil fuels, changing industry, transport, land use, solid waste management and agricultural activities. In terms of the emissions of greenhouse gases, the United States comes, as is known at the top of the world's most prominent states. The annual amount of U.S. emissions exceeds 7 billion tonnes. According to UN reports, greenhouse gas emissions of 41 industrialised countries increased by 2.4 per cent during 2000-2004. The Kyoto Protocol, signed in 1997 but adopted in 2005, failed to reach the desired results. Turkey's total greenhouse gas emissions from 1990 to 2004 increased by 74.4 per cent from 170.1 Mton to 296.6 Mton. This increase is the highest increase in 41 countries on the UN Charter for Climate Change Ek-1 list. This is a high rise in the production of energy from fossil fuel consumption. A global 2-degree rise in climate change will have many significant effects on the Mediterranean basin, which includes Turkey. If global temperature increases by 2 degrees, the Mediterranean climate will become warmer, the drought will be felt in large areas, decline in the amount of rain, increasing water consumption in agriculture, loss of surface water will lead to 50 percent loss of plants in the North Mediterranean. Climate change creates serious changes in human vital activity. The most disturbing aspect of climate change is that the problems that have arisen as a result of these changes are affected by poor people in a more disproportionate way than others, and the current differences in income distribution are increased. As a result of global climate changes, water shortages and droughts will bring to the attention of continental migrations and water wars, as certain regions cease to be suitable for human settlements. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Public Housing Administration has become the Prime Minister's subsidiary under Article 10 of Law 3046 under the Prime Minister's decree dated 16/01/2004. While building housing by 2008, the presidency has become a very serious public resource-building institution, including the service building, hospital, school, mosque and business centre that public institutions need from this year on. The presidency covered the financing it needed to meet its obligations by selling the land and land available by 2007, and began using a bank loan from 2007 to meet the need for financing. In this context, he used 407 million liras in 2007, 1.5 billion liras in 2008, 292 million liras in 2009, and 629 million in 2010. The presidency is subject to public tender law 4734. He determines the contractor selection of housing and public institutions for the construction of the above-level construction work by contracting under Law 4734 and oversees the construction process under the Public Contracts Act 4735. After reviewing the Court reports in 2009 and 2010, there have been serious indications that the tenders and editions of these productions have been mixed with corruption and that the presidency has been damaged. For example: 1-The tender for the construction of the "Ordu Province, Lakeköy County 208 dwellings, trade centers, mosques, 16-room school indoor infrastructure and environmental regulatory construction" has cost about 14.041,564 euros. 2- Ankara Province of Modül, which cost about $9,746,900, is the tender of 144 dwellings and trade centres in the province of Çankırı, Çerkeş district 324 housing and social donuts (16 classroom elementary school, mosque, chadırvan, commercial centre) and the construction of the island's general structure and environmental regulatory structure (04/07/2010). It's been auctioned to the 000TL. It is not possible for such tenders to be tendered in accordance with Article 21/b of Law 4734. In Article 21/b of the Law, it has been agreed that the tender must be carried out as a presumption of the tender when it comes to sudden and unpredictable events such as natural disasters, epidemics, loss of life or property, or the emergence of the administration. It's the open bidding process that's the main thing in contracts. If the conditions are not established above, the tender cannot be held under Article 21/b of Law 4734. These conditions do not exist in the production work. The tenders would have to be carried out under Article 19 of the Law. "The administrations are responsible for providing transparentness, competition, equal treatment, security, privacy, public control, appropriate conditions and timely use of resources in their tenders under this law." It's in your power. The tenders made by the institution were not considered basic principles. The fact that these principles have not been observed constitutes elements of the crime of corrupting the tender. On the other hand, the Court reports have determined that temporary admissions of non-acceptable jobs have been paid for and that corruption has been mixed up in the nature of the introduction, not being cut off by the rights of criminal contractors who should be working. In order to clarify all these issues, we propose and propose the opening of the "Meclis investigation" under Article 98, Article 104, and Article 105 of our Civil Code. [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] 3) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Tunceli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Hatay]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[Adana]] 10) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 11) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Balıkesir]] 17) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 18) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 19) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 22) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 24) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 26) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] 31) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 33) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 34) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Bursa Yenişehir Airport was officially opened on 3 November 2000. The completion of illumination and so on was launched on June 01, 2001. On the same day, it was shut down in the air traffic at Bursa Airport in Yunuseli and delivered to Airport Air Force Command. As of today, the former Bursa Airport in Yunuseli is closed to air traffic. However, on 21/02/2011, protocols were made between the Metropolitan Municipality and the DHMI to begin re-opening this airport. In 21/05/2001, the Council of Ministers has determined that the decision 2001/2444 is a permanent entry-and-exit air border door at the Bursa Yenişehir Airport. Thus, Yenişehir Airport has been opened to international air traffic. The first passenger flights to Yenişehir Airport began on 28/12/2002, carrying tourists from Russia and Ukraine to Uludağ for New Year's Eve. These expeditions are being carried out at the same time today. In the 2004 pilgrimage season, Yenişehir Airport began to send off its first pilgrims. As of August 6, 2004, the first scheduled passenger flights began by THY to Ankara. However, due to the low demand, these expeditions have been cancelled. The scholarship was re-established on 26/03/2007. The Tripoli flights were carried out by THY again. The Erzurum expeditions have seen this. With the arrival of Sun Express's planes, the campaigns for Diyarbakır, İzmir and Antalya have begun. Then the THY flights were all transferred to Sun Express. However, all scheduled flights to Izmir and Diyarbakir and then Antalya and Erzurum and Tripoli were cancelled on 18/02/2010. In 2009, the Umre campaigns began from our airport for the first time. These expeditions are still going on. Also in 2009, MNG Airlines launched an unscheduled flight to Cairo for the purpose of exporting chicks to Egypt at 14.4,2009. Anatorianjet, the subsidiary of THY from 2/4/2010 at our airport, was launched by Ankara flights. Four tours a week (Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Saturday) and our airport is back on domestic schedules. In this way, it was possible to travel from Bursa to Ankara, to all four parts of the country, and to some international destinations. These expeditions began to take place seven days a week from 31/10/2010. In addition, Düsseldorf flights from Germania Fluggesellschaft have been held on 30/3/2010, and have been held once a week (Salı) on opposite flights from Düsseldorf to Germania Fluggesllschaft. On 20/7/2010, Borajet began his ten-point domestic flights from Bursa. However, after a series of changes and cancellations, the last flight to Erzurum on 27/2/2011, all of Borajet's Bursa flights were stopped. On 2/8/2010, Lufthansa launched a three-week reciprocal Munich campaign. These flights ended on 28/10/2011. Ankara flights carried out daily by Anatolianjet, mentioned above from 23/5/2011, are shared on the website of the institution where the ATR 72-500-type aircraft from Borajet began to take place twice a day, co-operation with Anadolujet-Borajet. But when we look at its history and its present state, the city of historical monuments, the city of historical monuments, with its beauty and thousands of years of well-known spas, has the potential for tourism and is the country's most important industrial and agricultural city as Turkey's fourth largest province. Its population has also been severely increased in recent years due to migrations to Bursa. In view of all these facts, we move forward with the fact that airline services that will contribute to the economy, tourism, industry, and social situation are not regularly provided, and we propose and open Parliamentary research on the grounds of our Constitution, in order to ensure that Bursa Yenişehir Airport will be able to actively serve in all directions in all directions, and in order to take the necessary precautions. [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Manisa]] 6) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[40s.]] [[Ardahan]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Artvin]] 22) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 23) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] 24) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 25) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 26) Cervix of Love [[İzmir]] The motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will take place when it's time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Parliamentary Production, Trade and Maritime Commission Presidents Meeting, held in Athens, Greece on 16 March 2014 by the chairman of the Council of the Council of Europe, is presented to the draft of the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on Editing Foreign Relations of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, dated 28/3/1990, under Article 9 of the Law. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkish Parliament Speaker Mr. Cemil Cicek and his delegation will be held in Geneva from March 17th to March 19, 2014, at 130th Parliamentary Union (PAB). On the matter of their visit to Switzerland to join the General Assembly, it is submitted to the General Assembly's approval under Article 9 of Law No. 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0002par0240	Mr. President, the Council of Counsellor's proposal has not been voted. There was a counseling board proposal, shouldn't it be discussed, voted on first?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0001par0241	And then... I'm having the AK PARTY proposal read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Saturday 01.03.2014 (today), I would like to ask that the following proposal of our group be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's 559th Bill of Law, which is included in "The Bill of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions," is to be taken into the 3rd place of this chapter and to be considered according to the order of other tasks. On Saturday (March 01st 2014), the General Assembly's agenda of the primary geneorary motion, which was issued under pressure (11/31), is to be held on Saturday (March 2014), and to discuss whether the Constitution will be taken into consideration under Article 99, and whether the General Assembly will be taken into consideration on Saturday (March 01st 2014); On Saturday (March 1st 2014) the meeting of Bill 559 of Law (today) in the completion of the talks between 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 March 2014, 1.8, 15 and 22 and 29 on Tuesday (April 2014) the talks on other audit issues, following the discussion of oral questions, were not discussed for an hour, and the talks were held on the agenda of "The Bill of Laws and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions," On Wednesday, April 2, 9, 16 and 30, 2014, the unspoken questions were not discussed. On Tuesdays 1, 8, 15, 22 and 29 April 2014, between 3:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m., Wednesday 2, 3, 9, 10, 16, 17, 24, and 30 April 2014, and Thursday's mergers between 2:00 p.m. and 2 p.m., If the day's schedule cannot be completed at 2400 p.m. in the following combinations, it will continue its work until the day's schedule is completed. The Law Proposal 559 was proposed to be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, and to have its sections in the accompanying form. Mehmet Doğan Kubat, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal for Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0003par0265	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my opinion in favor of our group's proposal. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, our group proposal recommends arrangements for the working hours and days of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's work next week and this week, and again on the working days and hours of April. In addition, the talks of the Law Bill of Change in various Laws with the aim of improving 559 rows of Rights and Freedoms on the agenda will be launched today, as well as today's talks on the basis of the threeth order of the agenda; (11/31) The main Justice Minister (11/31), Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, has been proposed to meet on Thursday until the end of the 559th package of the Constitution until Thursday. I look forward to your support for our proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0004par0269	Thank you. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement against the Justice and Development Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0005par0273	Mr. President, the more the agenda of parliament in a democracy meets the public's agenda, the better democracy works, and parliament brings better solutions to the problems of the people. Now, when we look at Turkey, we see that the agenda of parliament in Turkey is completely different from the agenda of the government and the public agenda. There are some basic problems with the public agenda. The first problem is the investigation of allegations of bribery and corruption following December 17th, which have been made clear. The public's wish is to close the investigation into these allegations of bribery and corruption in the opposite direction of the government's agenda while the first agenda is in such a state. The Parliament of the Republic of Turkey has been engaged in this agenda of the government since 17 December 2013. In this framework, the government passed many laws on the basis of the majority of Parliaments. We're going to see one of those laws again today. The regulations that limit the anti-democracy, rights and freedoms, the government's anti-democracy and freedom policies, which act by law, turn them into laws. If we review the laws that have been passed since December 17th, first, I'd like to bring to your attention the pre-law procedure. The government deliberately intervened in the HSYK and changed the member structure of the apartments, and with its changing member structure, a agency has appointed judges and prosecutors. Later, the HSYK Bill came to Parliament. An anti-democracy, dissolution of forces that destroyed the principle, a law linking HSYK to the Ministry of Justice was adopted by Parliament. The legal state has been eliminated and destroyed by that law in Turkey. Another law had an regulation on the removal of the 10th article of the Special Official Court of Anti-Terror Law and the 10th Amendment of the Anti-Terror Law, which he passed through Parliament, but to your attention, the law, such as the 10th Amendment of the Anti-Terror Law, the removal of private-government courts, has put in order to close the corruption and bribery investigation behind a regulation, and that law has come out of Parliament in that way. The arrangements there are remarkably severe. In order for the court to decide on a black money investigation within 30 days, institutions such as MASAK, BDDK, have a black money report here was conditioned by that law. If this report is missing, the court will not be able to make a decision about it in any way. So it's an arrangement that gives the government the direct right to run the institution. A parallel arrangement, in parallel with this, is required to receive a report from MASAK, which is either black money to the courts, prosecutors, in connection with the investigations carried out. If this report does not arrive from MASAK in 30 days, the investigation will be self-inflicted. The purpose of these arrangements is that after December 17 the prosecutors, the courts, the courts, the courts, and the prosecution, will close the case. There are a lot of arrangements. With the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Act, it is not surprising that in a few hours the government, the Minister of Justice, has made new appointments following the completion of their duties. The law was published late, especially in the Official Gazette. At around eleven o'clock on Wednesday, two laws were passed by the President. First of all, he should've laid out a bag. That bag of legislation was published in the Official Gazette on the evening of the same day, but the law on HSYK was not published. When was it published? On Thursday evenings and Friday mornings, the government made appointments at the HSYK. The 10th article of the Anti-Terror Law has been lifted. All of this is the opinion the Republican People's Party advocates, but all of this was placed there to shut down the corruption and bribery investigation as I mentioned earlier, and yesterday, at the time of Mr. Minister's appointment, a court in Istanbul decided to release the last prisoners in the corruption investigation. Reza Zarraf and his children were evacuated. The court order is extremely interesting. To your attention, the court says: "It is clear that the evidence obtained by the suspects in order to take bribes and give them, to form an organization to commit crimes and bribes, was obtained in the wake of communication detection, listening, recording and surveillance through technical tools, and that the evidence obtained in such a manner is not necessarily evidence of the basis unless it is supported by side evidence. " Yes, it's beautiful, but with the sledgehammer, the honorable officers of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Turkey, their commanders, the intellectuals of the Republic of Turkey, scientists, politicians, journalists, yes, they were convicted with digital evidence, phone records, not to produce evidence alone. And you said, "Turkey is cleaning its intestines." You said, you stood by. After December 17th, the Prime Minister said, "There is a world of sin in it." He said, "The Balyoz and Ergenekon case saluted the prisoners and played with their feelings. The goal was to get that section behind him to close the 17 December bribery and corruption investigation. Well, now, look, the court in Istanbul is releasing Reza Zarraf and his ministers' children. What about the Prime Minister's promises? ▪ Where is the practice of the word? Safe and sound people are being released, young, wealthy people, but Sener Eruygur has been comatose in prison for years. Coroner's office has a report, and he's waiting for it to come out so he can be treated outside in a full hospital. He doesn't care if the government is a spectator to Sener Eruygur. Hilmioğlu the Conqueror's son died, and a permit was given to go to his son's funeral. It's a house near the small house, so I went to his house with our Mr. President. You took him to Sincan Prison around 5:00 p.m. Why? He can run, he can go abroad, he can black out evidence... In the court's decision on Reza Zarrap, it also states: "There is no question that the evidence is collected because the evidence has been collected, whereas their fathers are in the government, in Parliament, but there is no question that there is a decision. " However, Sener Eruygur, who is in a coma, will be kept in prison as a madman. The Chief of General Staff of the Republic of Turkey is being held in prison, and the cry is not heard. Why? It can blacken the mind. But these ministers, Reza Zarrap, say the evidence doesn't black out. They have a fixed dwelling, there is no doubt of escape, he says. In addition, the offenses against him are not so serious, so even if they are punished, they may receive very little punishment. An assessment is because it is not evidence that requires them to remain inside, it is called their release. Dear lawmakers, with such an agenda, Turkey has been busy since December 17th. I condemn this attitude, this policy. As I finish my words here, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0006par0289	I don't know if that's a policy or a court order you're reading.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0007par0290	Thank you. Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP who has asked for a group proposal from the Justice and Development Party. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0008par0294	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, we've had a very busy agenda for a long time, and as if it were a marathon, the Turkish Grand National Assembly has passed many laws. In these laws, when we look at people who are directly concerned about society, we can't see that there's too much. Many of the laws that have been passed have been the basis for some new structures, especially since December 17th. So, when we look at it in this framework, the Parliament reveals the state of the government's laws to protect itself. As a matter of fact, when we first consider HSYK, we see that the structure of a court that was not thought of before 17 is suddenly changed to what is called profit and profit. In fact, maybe the government wouldn't need it too much, because it's HSYK 1. By replacing members of his apartment, HSYK had already had a situation in which it could reach its desired conclusion. As a matter of fact, 1. A major operation has been launched on both prosecutors and judges as the members of the agency were replaced, and they have been replaced. In fact, when you looked at the shifters, it was quite clear to you why this was done, because on December 17th, we saw the abuse of the children of a number of ministers, the abuse of ministers, and the replacements of prosecutors and judges who were also conducting abuse of people. As a matter of fact, the recent change has already shown itself, taking advantage of the annual leave of İstanbul Criminal Court Judge Metin Çelik, another judge, even though he was on duty, has evacuated five people, especially those standing in the forefront. He explained his reasons for evac in a very good way, stating that he was released because there was no way to black out evidence, and there was no way to escape abroad. True, it may be true, but oddly enough, that's not the way it works with other people in the same position. So you'll see that the double standard in our courts greatly undermines people's trust in the courts, undermines their sense of justice, very clearly, if you contact the public directly. Therefore, it is not wrong to see that the laws adopted after December 17th and adopted by the Turkish Grand National Assembly are often in that direction. Dear lawmakers, in fact, in the legislation brought in today, we will again see the outcome of a policy run by the government and talk about it in the coming hours. But in some changes that take place in appointments, I think that everyone should pay attention to something, that justice really has to be impartial, that justice has to be neutral, that lawmen have to demonstrate their neutrality. Because public trust in the law, trust in the state, can be done with justice. Let me put it this way, friends: Look at all the history of the world, look at the history of the countries, the destruction of states is usually caused by the failure of the legal system, the dissolution of trust in justice. Even in 1464, modern legal systems have been drawn and applied, even then -- in 1464, when the Ottoman state met the period of Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror. In his book "Tarih-i Ebül-Feth," Tursun Bey, an important writer of the period, says: "The decree of the kingdom is the law. In order to enter into law enforcement, the law requires two basic conditions. One of them is that if the sentence is carried out, it does not condemn those who apply it. The second condition is that in order for the ruling to become law, other laws and constitutions -- then it is called evil, the rule of law and the system of law, which is applied -- should not be the opposite. In fact, these are the basis of today's modern law, but if you notice, many laws have been passed that are contrary to the Constitution. For example, yesterday we talked about closing the classrooms that passed through this House. Yes, in fact, if the educational system is based on sound foundations in a country, it should not be needed, it should not be a classroom, but the 48th article of the Constitution states that anyone can open a private workplace and trade. Now, if there's a need, if someone thinks that way, they can open a classroom and make it work any way they want. You, as a government, have to take precautions on whether or not the student should go to the classroom instead of closing the classroom. So you have to spread the education fair and truly equal to the entire country's sath. Otherwise, I'm shutting down the classrooms. You can't set up a fair state system. Because even in a metropolitan city, even in Istanbul or Ankara, you can't say that the level of education between schools at the centre and educational institutions in the country is the same. So it's also quite clear that children should apply to a place where they can better train themselves to go to college because of your deviant education. If you are trying to prevent this, then you are in violation of Article 48 of the Constitution. So, you have to take into consideration the principle that the laws of the state in such matters are not contrary to other laws and the law of sherry. What will you say tomorrow if these come back from the Supreme Court? Sir, it's wrong, we've corrected it. I mean, this isn't a tent state. If you're a real government, you have to make sure that the laws you make are permanent, and you don't turn them into puzzle boards. Imagine if the Grand National Assembly of Turkey had a position to enter the Guinness Book of Records. On the day he passed the Internet law, he offered to change 4 articles from the Internet law again. So the attempt to change the Internet law before it's signed is actually a sign of how seriously the House works. And how can you think that you have the right to disparage the honor of the National Assembly, the influence of the National Assembly on society? So, the most important principle of being a state is that you try to break it before it gets cold, which is why a structure like this shows that Turkey is being wronged, and it's not the case that Turkey is going to fall in, and everyone has to pay attention to that. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0009par0305	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who has asked to be spoken against by the Justice and Development Party group. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0010par0309	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the People's Party of Peace and Democracy. I salute you all. Now we know, for a long time, the agenda of the EC PARTY and Turkey's real agenda are different. The AK PARTY has its own agenda; the bag brings laws, changes them two hours later, puts them back in the bag. We're back in a bag of democracy. But, very serious things are happening, the country's reputation is being shaken, corruption, corruption; the Syrian incident in foreign policy; the serious charges of financing Syrian terrorist organizations; the excessive use of force of security forces in the human rights report of the United States, from the attacks on democratic demonstrations to the politicalisation of the judiciary. Of course -- when we look at all of this -- we're looking at the proposal from the AK PARTY Group: what did the election bring to Turkey's agenda in March, in April? Did you guys really like the Constitution of September 12th coup? Don't you want to get rid of it? All sickness, injustice, lawlessness, all this -- I mean, try to pick up this vehicle as much as you want -- think of a car that's made of massive blow -- no matter how many doors you change the paint, here's an 80-model democracy with the Constitution. If you put brands of new 2014 cars on that 80-model democracy, it's the Constitution of the Kenan Universe, it's the main axis. You don't want to get rid of it, so it's weird. So, you guys don't like democracy? Don't you love freedom, don't you love equality, don't you love human rights, don't you love law, friends? Why are you so afraid of basic rights and freedoms? But no political power has ruled as much as you have, except for the one-party period, since 60. Look, it's a fact that Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror has conquered Istanbul. He prays and goes out in Ayasofya. As he rode his horse, with his magnificent white horse, he came down, picked up a handful of land, and drove it to his face, and rode on his horse again. It's said, next to Akşemsett, that there is a God greater than you. And it's said that the land is the end of all of us, and we will go under that land, and you will end up in that land, not as much as the end of a man's life. Why are you so hung up on the Constitution, its legislation? I mean, it's just, of course, we connect ourselves with the proverbs. They say a commander conquered some places in ancient Rome, and they came and greeted them with wonder. That commander had a regular advisor with him. And he said to his commanding officer, "Remember, you are not God. I want to tell the government of the EC PARTY and the government of the EC PARTY: You are not Parliament alone, you are not democracy alone. If you set these agendas this way, if you don't talk to four party groups... I mean, we had a Charter Compromise Commission, and it's beautiful, and we agreed on 90 percent. I mean, it's a week's work to bring this Civil Code to life, why did we leave it unfinished? That's it, we've done his work for two semesters, guys. There was going to be a color for Congress. Why don't you think about bringing him in? In our new constitutional studies, at a certain point, we agreed on 60 articles. Why don't you guys think, "Let's speed up the new constitution work again in April?" I mean, if you act on the situation that comes your way every day, believe me, people are gonna be chalk, parties are gonna be parties, rulings are not gonna make it, let me be clear to you. You're in such a hurry, and you're in such a great uncertainty, you're in a state of anxiety. Those worries are making you make such a big mistake, you guys are making some serious mistakes when you're trying to fix something. I'm going to say one of your mistakes, make a note of it, and you'll know what I'm saying. December 17th happened, and then, on December 22nd, you brought a new president to head the TİB. Now, look, what happened after the new president arrived? While we're still negotiating the TİB law, when we're negotiating the Internet law -- you know, it's just been approved, before all this happened, when he wasn't in the bag -- what happened? It's said that -- so, friends, sometimes you're in power, they say you're everything -- a team of experts from MIT is going to go to TİB, there are three engineers in there, and these three engineers are doing a good job; this is how they scan all the decisions of law enforcement, law enforcement, court, they collect, they collect, they put them in a bag, whatever they have to do with government, parties, whatever they have to do with them. It's a rumor, someone's telling it, so let's face it. And then we collected them very comfortably, and when we went as a research commission, did you listen to the MPs? We've seen the House mocked, we've seen the House, we've seen the people's will, we've seen the people's choice, we've seen the people's ridicule, we've seen the great roof, we've seen how those appointed officers laugh. If you don't believe me, Zayid Aslan is here; go, I swear -- he's a human being. I'm telling you. Then, five former apartment heads' computers -- one of them; curiosity, curiosity; friends, curiosity -- are asked what's on the head of the five apartments' computer, and then the target lists of intelligence are taken; higher court decisions and so on, whether they have a degree of secrecy on hard disks or not. What happens then? There's a law firm there. There's TİB. There's lawyers there. And those jurisprudences, they'd do an examination to see if it was in order. They take those lawyers, they replace them with gardeners. I said the gardener, so they'll put the non-lawyers in, so you'll understand. They'll bring them in and put them in their place, but they're good guys. They're strong, they're like this, they're like this, they're like a center, they're gonna give us information right away. And then -- most of them graduates of open school, diplomas from outside -- no matter how many judicial decisions there are -- about the government -- and TİB, before the law is passed, becomes the AK PARTI's own listening organization. Now, for this hearing, I'm going to say to you that history has a lot of examples of how nations who can't take the right steps in time miss the opportunities of governments, how they struggle with their internal problems, and how they become a dependent state. We warn you: come, this country is all of us, let's do things together. If he can't make an agenda together, shame on this Parliament, shame on you! Shame on us to sit on these podiums. I say shame on a parliament if it can't share its agenda. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0011par0322	Thank you. I'll put the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0012par0326	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0011par0327	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Acar, Mr. Serdar, Mr. Çandar, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Onur, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Ekleturk, Mr. Atici, Mr. Pavey, Mr. Öz. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the AK PARTI group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. At a meeting of the advisory council on Saturday 1/3/2014 (today), the following proposal was approved by the General Assembly. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman of the Group Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President Due to general elections for local administrations on 30 March 2014, 15 (15) days to begin the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on Tuesday (11/3/2014), It's recommended. Proposal request? No. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Human Rights Review Commission has had a request that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be able to work during the recession. This request, which is approved by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 25 of the Court of Justice. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. As per the decision taken, we're moving on to "Builds on Special Agenda" on the agenda. On behalf of the nationalist Action Party Group, we are starting talks on whether the group's MPs, İzmir MP Oktay Vural and Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu (11/31) will be released on the agenda of the motion of the main genotype of the genotype (11/31) on the basis of the investigations on corruption and corruption claims, under pressure on the members of the judicial law and judiciary, interfering with the investigations and the grounds that some ministers have failed to meet the requirements. Government? He's in position. I do not re-read the motion because it has been printed and distributed and has been read in the 70th Union of the General Assembly, dated 28/2/2014. Members of parliament, under Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the motion will be promised this meeting, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a prime minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holder, 20 minutes for groups and government. Now, I read the names of the members of the following members: the recommended owner, Yusuf Halaçoglu, Kayseri MP; Faruk Bal on behalf of the National Movement Party Group; Hasip Kaplan on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group; Hasip Kaplan on behalf of Şırnak MP; Bedii Süheyl Batum on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; İdris Şahin on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ on behalf of the government. The first statement belongs to Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu, who has the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0013par0377	Faruk Bal will speak.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0011par0378	Faruk Bal, MP of Konya; go ahead. Mr. Honey, you've asked for a word on behalf of the group, so I'll put it together, you have half an hour. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0014par0382	Okay, thank you. Members of parliament, on behalf of our group, I stand before you to present the views of both the motion and the National Party of Action on behalf of Minister of Justice, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ. I salute the grand jury. Where did we come from, and how did we get here? I want to make a small start so I can answer the question. In this frame, precious...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0015par0385	Congressmans, please, there's a buzzing in the hall. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0014par0387	Where did we come from and how did we get here? I want to take you back a little bit so I can answer the question. There have been serious developments in the world in the last two centuries. These developments are a process of transition from agricultural society to industrial society and from there to the information and IT community. Turkey has not successfully survived this process and has been intertwined with the properties of the agricultural society and the properties of the industrial society, the properties of the industrial society and the properties of the age of information and IT. The major problems are piling up in every field, but the most intense problem is that we're going to meet today on issues such as democracy, law, judicial independence, judicial independence, judge guarantees. The Justice and Development Party has been in power for 11 years. For 11 years, he was expected to find a radical solution to these problems and to relieve Turkey of some difficulties. The Justice and Development Party had the means, within objective circumstances, to do so. There was a strong parliamentary majority within the parliamentary democratic system, and its strong parliamentary majority was able to create solutions, such as democratisation, handling the problems of the judiciary, by running well through the Assembly. There was no coalition issue, and opposition parties also tried to encourage the Justice and Development Party at this point. But the Justice and Development Party has wasted 11 years. For 11 years, the Justice and Development Party has seen democracy as a train -- I'm not saying that, the founder of the Justice and Development Party and Mr. President of the Justice and Development Party -- has accepted democracy as a train, until the goal is reached, and has seen it as a goal to land on the station. In view of democracy as such a train, democracy's two feet -- one is the rule of law, the other is what we call the market economy -- have reflected the opinion of the Justice and Development Party. How? All conditions for the market economy have been eliminated during the eleven-year period of power, the conditions for free competition in the market economy have been eliminated. Instead, supporters, those close to their party, those who benefit from their own party, those who benefit from their own party's ministers, those who help their party's supporters, are superior in competition in these market economy conditions, those who are left behind are threatened, oppressed by the use of power, the laws of the parliamentary democratic system that they can maintain, the Public Contraction Act has been changed, the Privatisation Act has been changed. Thus, on the way to the one-party state, an economic area was created where the only party could rule. When this economic area was created, the forbidden tables were set up, those who had been fed, those who had been blessed, were organized among themselves, and they began to seek their own political allies. That's one of the reasons why today's corruption operations are at the root. Second, the Justice and Development Party view the concept of the rule of law as a view of democratic values. That look was clear, just as it considered democracy to be a train to the destination of the station, the Justice and Development Party understood the rule of law as a law that would serve its elite, and in that scope, a great staffing, a great politicalisation, and the consequences of that politicalisation have brought to a painful point here today that we will evaluate with this geneor. My dear friends, after expressing these two fundamental issues, I would like to share with you one more thing in general. The world's civilizations were built, the time of the built civilizations, the time of their time, when their reasons came to light, the world disappeared into the family of civilizations. So, the most important thing that brought that time to the destruction of civilizations is that the sense of justice is destroyed, that the sense of justice can't find enough in that civilization. Cultures have formed in the world, these cultures have contributed to universal values, but those cultures have completed their life in time-forming world culture. The only reason he's finished his life is because the concept of justice that created those cultural values is gone. Governments have been established since the day the world existed. These states have grown, developed, but the day has come and gone. Their reasons for getting up are very different, but one of the most important reasons is injustice. Powers have been established within these states, power has come and gone. In countries that have adopted democratic values, the rulings have come within a system that sets the rule of replacing them with the opposition in exchange for the value of democracy. That's the problem with the Justice and Development Party. It's a ruling party that's not going to throw away this important value of democracy. However, a ruling party, however it sees democracy as a train to ride to the goal, as it sees judgment as a force to be used until the goal is reached, has also begun to use it to avoid going back after the goal has been achieved, once it has reached power. My dear friends, I would like to share with you three new YouTube and Twitter outputs so that you can understand the gravity of this use and understand what I'm going to say next. One of them -- I was going to show it to you last -- but I decided to first show your attention -- including Zarrab, the minister, who evacuated his children, Judge Ismail Cicek shares it on YouTube, he likes it. What does he like? I'm reading to you: May God give you a long life, tall man. He says with the photograph of Mr. Erdoğan. Now, that's what judgment has become. We say to Mr. Prime Minister, God bless his life because we are not in a position to take his life, God Almighty gives his life, the time comes, we're all leaving, but in a case like this, when the Prime Minister is on the side, if he needs such an advertisement on the YouTube page, his decision will have to meet us as opposition parties and the Turkish nation with anxiety, anxiety, and doubt. Secondly, my dear friends, yesterday Prime Minister Burdur was at the rally, we all know. All the governors did so, and I was able to reveal one: Ismail Tetovo, Governor's deputy governor to the governor's name, he's sending a full shipment of government offices from the Isparta Governor's Chief of Staff to the entire government's office, and he's calling all your vehicles -- but logoless vehicles -- to the governor's order, so-called smart governor or logoless vehicles to hide them. I'll use them at the rally. He says. Third, I say again, as I justify the blessing that says, "There is no reason in your fingers. The result of the law, which you have not loaded with your own mind, has come to light. According to that law, the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office issued a written order to the judicial law enforcement forces investigating the major corruption operation. The written order is that the investigation no. Lu, the file on the criminal enterprise and conspiracy to commit a contract was sent to the police department on December 15, 2013 by the police department........ and be careful after that. Yeah, well, there's not a single member of parliament who's paying attention! It's not going to be the fingers again. Yes, after a long time, I draw your attention to this: did you ever hear a wiretap based on the court's verdicts at the request of your Chief Prosecutor's Office? Did you hear... wiretaps, communication detection...? As of December 15th, when the physical monitoring process is terminated, the State's Attorney's Office says, come here to be destroyed in our custody -- in the custody of the Attorney General's office. Dear friends, do you know what this is? Let me tell you this in Turkish: the phone calls he made in the message systems, tweets, Facebook pages -- because other friends and friends, intimidated media can no longer say these things -- the phone taps he made with the Prime Minister's son you've heard of, the tapes he made with the son who was forced to collect money in the pool, as the international terror suspect named El Qadil. Zero is the algebraic equation, but it's the money business, the money resetting. What money reset? There are those who calculate $2 billion, so there's about this much left, and then there's this little bit of algebra, and then there's those who take advantage of that algebra process, and use the math process to figure out how much it costs to reset it. According to this, there are people who say $1 billion. There are people who say $2 billion. So, according to the statement of Bilal Erdogan, son of the prime minister, who is about $1 billion, $2 billion, I have nothing in my house, Daddy, only your money in the safe. Here's what Bilal Erdogan, who he described as your money, ordered by the Attorney General of the Republic to have this money distributed and handed over to the trustees as evidence. My dear friends, this is what the Justice and Development Party has done to Turkey's already troubled judgment. The AKP economy, which he built, has made Turkey this way by protecting each other, by protecting each other, by protecting each other with the AKP's justice he built. Where we are now, what happened on December 17th, my dear friends? The date of the largest political, social, forensic and democratic crisis in Turkish political history on December 17th. December 17th, all of this is the name of an unprecedented state crisis in the history of the republic, and an operation that was initiated by the power itself to destroy existing democratic values in the wake of this. Why was the operation launched by this government, and why was the judiciary brought to this? To answer the question, because the corruption operation of the century began at that time. The figures that emerged in this corruption operation were able to use the definition of the enemy's corruption operation. The evidence was sufficient to call the operation of corruption of the enemy, and the suspects here were able to be identified as the operation of the government, as well as its four ministers and its children and from there to the Prime Minister's children, as well as the political identity of the suspects. My dear friends, the four ministers, four ministers, four children of the Prime Minister, who are very close to the 61st government, let's say Reza Zarrab -- let's raise some of this zatimuhteremi -- his business partners, Al Kadis, some mayors, the President of the People's Bank, TÜRGEV, and some of the government's government's subsidiaries, and the foundation that has been coerced into this operation. When the operation of such a large and comprehensive century was revealed, they were in a great hurry and a great fear, especially the Prime Minister and members of the government. As a result, Turkey began to have consequences that could lead us to the situation today, which would remove democracy from its values, which would eliminate judicial independence. My dear friends, four of the ministers suspected in this operation were to leave their posts immediately, while the law required them to leave their posts for eight days, and they signed for the destruction of evidence, for the destruction of evidence, for the removal of public duties, for the prosecution's duties. Therefore, only Erdoğan Bayraktar did what the Prime Minister instructed me to do. After a month and a half, he was threatened by the Prime Minister according to the way we predicted -- he had to apologize to the Prime Minister by turning back from his resignation and from the statement he had made. My dear friends, this fear, this panic, as a result of this panic, as of December 17th, the Istanbul Police Commissioner was replaced primarily by the Prime Minister's private plane and took a governor from Aksaray, and appointed him as the Chief Constable of Istanbul. The press asked the governor: "What are you going to do?" He said: "I don't know what I'm going to do." He said: "We'll find out what I'm going to do." But according to the prearranged lists that he's been handed over, they've first appointed people like the judge I just showed you who's been working on this smuggling, organised crime, financial crime operation. They thought you'd be done with it. It's not over. This time, they tried to dilute their affairs by adding additional prosecutors to the prosecutors who did the investigation, but the evidence turned out to be so strong and serious that it didn't happen. Then what did they do? They took the files away from the D.A. That wasn't enough. The prosecutors drove around. My dear friends, these works that were done in Istanbul, the police being driven around, the removal of files from prosecutors, judges, and their appointment was not enough. It's not enough, why? Because they knew he had dirty business elsewhere. Thus, they spread this exile operation in 17 separate ways, including the police chiefs of 17 different counties and public officials, who carried out their duties as judicial police officers, who investigated corruption, and drove their police to the right and to the left. Around 7,000 police officers were suspended in such a manner. In parallel with this, Mr. Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ, who began his post on December 25th, first on December 20th, when these operations came out, he was provoked, answering questions of reporters who had been spreading theft, corruption to the public, and I am pressing charges against prosecutors who have uncovered this information, who have spread the secret investigation. Then, on December 25th, he made a threatening statement to HSYK, showing such size. News has been dropped on December 28th by the press that Mr. Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ had ordered the operation to stop operations, and at the same time information about prosecutors being removed from the hands of prosecutors during the operation in İstanbul has been reflected in public that prosecutors have been in unlawful savings. After taking over as Minister of Justice, he attended a meeting with HSYK on January 15th. Just after this meeting, on the same day, the heart of the HSYK, the appointment for judges and prosecutors, did all important work, such as transport. The two members of his apartment that touched the Zulfüyura were removed from this apartment. Instead, he was replaced by two members of the entity, and in this way, he became a political leader of the AKP. The apartment did its first act the day after that. On 16 January, prosecutors and judges who conducted operations in İstanbul said that there is a possibility that this could also be covered by 16 separate parties. He issued a decree on judges and prosecutors in those provinces. This, of course, was a very urgent decision issued on January 16th, where 20 judges and prosecutors were in charge, but then there was a follow-up. On January 21st, a decree was issued involving 97 judges and prosecutors. I know this decree is an excuse, but there are judges, prosecutors, in this decree, who will touch the Zulfui, disobey the instructions. That was not enough, but another 166 people were issued on February 12th, and thus the operation on corruption within the judiciary was completed, just as the law enforcement forces in the police were eliminated in the judicial police, fully supported, as was the operation on judges and prosecutors. By the time I got here, I believe the Criminal Police Act was changed to change the Constitution on December 18th or 19th, so the Constitution was changed by regulations. The legal arrangements that removed the evidence of the crime have been made, the special authorities' courts have been removed. The evidence that they collected, this prosecutor's hand should be given to him as a weapon. The material that neutralized, devalued, and counted the evidence of their corruption operation was concealed. All of this has been deciphered, explained to you, but with your irrational majority of fingers, I'm afraid this happened in Turkey. The Internet law has been changed in order to prevent online publications. By making a change in the MIT, just in case these cops do anything, and this judge does anything, a third power, apart from the police and the Armed Forces, has been tried to make an MIT Law equipped with operational authority, and the legal order has come with the drafts that Mr. Justice Minister has drawn up. As a result, there have been reports of four ministers. These proceedings came to the Ministry of Justice, along with evidence that four ministers of the 61st government committed crimes in the corruption operation. According to the Minister of Justice's own statement, these files have been reviewed for 45 days. Why did you study it, brother? Are you a judge? Why are you going through the files? Are you a prosecutor? Why are you going through the files? Why did you study it for 45 days? Forty-five days later, he sent these files back. By what? Forty-five days later, he was sent away because he didn't follow a general order issued by the Ministry of Justice. My dear friends, the Department of Justice's generalization is two pages, and we all know it. There's a lot of bureaucrats in the Department of Justice, and when you call someone, you tell them to sleep or to sleep, and you send them on the same day. It can't be sent because for 45 days, what evidence is in these corruption files, what evidence is there, what evidence they're risking as a suspect, and what cities are involved, the research, the investigation has been done. That's how the police commissioners of 16 counties were changed during these 45 days of study. For 45 days, these investigations were conducted with information taken out of this place in a month, or even in ten days, when the judge's decision was issued, and unfortunately, in Turkey, the Justice Department was reduced to a 21st century to designing its police, its judge, its judge, despite its independence, its neutrality, the judge's security. My dear friends, of course, it's not enough, but to understand why all this is happening, you have to look at this Izmir thing briefly. Is there a Minister of Justice who doesn't talk to prosecutors? I know there's no Minister of Justice who doesn't talk to prosecutors, but there's no one who talks like you! I've worked as a bureaucrat with four, at least four Attorney Generals, maybe 50 or 60 as a judge, a prosecutor; I've never seen anyone interfere with a trial as much as you. Look how you interfered: Izmir Police Commissioner Ali Bilkay, who's going to do the operation, calls Bora Bridgelı, who says: "If he asks anything about the matter, we're working." You're going to say, "We're working," but you're not going to do any operations. Commissioner Ali Bilkay: Okay, okay. We're working, we're not doing it properly, okay? We're working, we're not doing it properly, okay? We're working, but we're not hiring, we're not sending people, okay? The governor of İzmir is interrupting:... definitely... the power at the back! Ali Bilkay: The order of Mr. Vali, we know for sure. Wait a minute... he says, he gives it to the governor. The governor says: "Now, this has become a matter of the country. The same thing happened in Istanbul. They must have done the same in Istanbul! You'll tell the prosecutor: "Sir, your instructions have arrived, we're working on it. The Bora Bridge objects: there are instructions given by the court, there are decisions. The prosecutor will now follow up on the matter himself. There's an administrative issue, and you're not involved, and there's a matter of judgment. He says, he's right. Governor Mustafa Land gets the phone: I mean, I can't fake it, but it also requires that I do it here -- he'll come, I don't understand. If the D.A. follows himself, our door is open, he drinks his tea and he's gone, brother. You'll give the instructions to all of your staff. You'll tell them that the instructions have arrived and they're working on it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's all these cities, and the prosecutor's gonna get up and go to all these cities? That's Ankara's very clear attitude. You know what I mean? That's Ankara's very clear attitude.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0016par0414	Who's Ankara? Minister.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0014par0415	My dear friends, time wasn't enough, but you can all read it from somewhere. This shows that Mr. Bekir Bozdağ's interference as Minister of Justice, the suspension of the Constitution's Article 138, the principle of separation of forces, the independence of the judiciary, the neutrality of the judiciary, the success of the judge's guarantee, and the success of eliminating it in a short period of time. I'm referring the motion from our National Movement Party Group to the consciences of valued lawmakers in order to open a gene for the Council's Inclusion and the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0017par0417	Sir, give me five more minutes. You'll give it to the Minister anyway. We can't listen.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0018par0418	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0014par0419	This time, I wish you to move those fingers with the conscience of the Lord God.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0018par0421	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP asking for the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0019par0423	Mr. President, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, I salute you all. I'm going to try to explain the views of our youth party, and, of course, before we begin this announcement, Mr. Bozdağ will probably go down in history as the minister of the republic's history who ate the geneor as soon as possible.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0020par0425	Look, there's such a thing as this!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0019par0426	He can always be here at HSYK meetings as a minister who ate the gene without sitting in the ministry seat.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0020par0427	It was ready when we were on the road. He was ready to go from home to the Ministry.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0019par0428	So, I looked at the motion for the geneorization, and there are law enforcement regulations made by an Interior Ministry, something that concerns the Ministry of Interior, nothing to do with it. Then, after Mr. Minister became Minister of Justice on December 25th, there was an HSYK meeting and the arrival of the HSYK Law, where the judge was to move prosecutors. In fact, I'm surprised that thousands of police officers have been replaced by branch managers. No one asked me to give you a gene about the Home Secretary like that. A few judges have moved the prosecutor's office in private court, and then the courts are closed, you know. So in order of urgency, when we look at which one is coming... Tomorrow the House will be closed, everyone who's going to run the election and the serious mechanisms that we, the opposition parties, have to be very strong on the basis that we sit on. But when it comes to justice and law -- and we look at the content of this gene -- there's an independent judicial framework -- we're going to explain our concerns, of course. At what points do we have such concerns? For such a gene, however, we, the Peace and Democracy Party, take into account the process that we're going through, and we make it clear that after explaining who are responsible for coming today, the Peace and Democracy Party will also explain why it is not on the side of such conjunctural genes. However, I'd like to tell you, dear lawmakers, have you, here, there's a park in the back, in the garden, have you ever been to the mayor's park? Have you guys ever been to that park in the back so I could take a walk? I believe you didn't go because the ruling party doesn't get a chance without a roll call, but we have a chance of opposition, so we're gone. What does it say there? There's a brass plate on that plate, which says something like: Three black granite cubes in the fountain in the park's focal point, three essential elements of democracy in the fountain, each one of their executive and judicial organs, the separation of forces between the pools of water boiling in the middle, and the fountains gushing out of the cubes.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0021par0431	Is it squirting, Hasip?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0019par0432	There's three granite cubes, guys. This little one, I'm sorry, I didn't get it, but I don't think Congress can see TV. I've been wondering about these wonderful three granite cases, and I've been there, and I've seen them, friends -- they can see them -- there's three granite cubes. These granite cubes look like three crates, so it's not a cube, it's a crate, a crate, granite. But the terrible thing is, the sprinklers are on the floor, the wires are intertwined, there's no squirting, there's no separation of forces, there's really a split of forces, there's a dissolution of forces here, and it's really complicated. The press can see this picture better in that park. I was so sorry when I saw that this morning. Our democracy is rusty friends, its wires are rotten, its sprinklers aren't whispering, it's not watering anymore, there's no water in it. Under the blue ladi is the name of First Parliament Speaker Gazi Mustafa Kemal. After that, there are synths and things like that. Why did I say that? If the entire House cares so much about this, about the separation of power, and if that's what's happening there, it's bad. Because where independent justice and justice have been interrupted from the history of the republic, in which political authorities have power, we need to focus on that. We'll start with Republic history. We will come from the history of the Republic, from the Supreme Court, from the Three Alilers. There, he called himself a rebel, executed him, reduced the age of Seyit Reza, raised the age of his grandson, and the age of Erdal Eren, as in the courts that have come to this day, until recently, terrible decisions have been made in these extraordinary courts. Now, from the history of the republic to the 60s we came to, to Yassuada. I would like to remind you again of the words of Judge Bashol. He said to the defendants, the late Menderes, his ministers, the politicians who were still alive, who came and went to the Parliament, who were tried at the time: "This is what the force wants. Do you understand? This is Turkey's justice. Sometimes this block force became nationalist, sometimes this blocking force became nationalist, and then this block force became powerful with its religious motifs. It doesn't matter. Every three periods, you hit us in a judgmental court; you put us in prison, you hanged us. 60 revolutions came, we found them again. It's March 12th, us again. Some cuts in between... September 12th, a little to the right, a lot to the left, us again. It's time for a special court of law in extraordinary courts, us again. Look, all of our congressman friends, all of them elected, were inside because of a phone record, an illegal phone record, for illegal, illegal, immoral records. Thousands of pages of indictments were made with cutting, stickers, and they were not put on trial for three years, and they were imprisoned for years. Our mayors are still in there for no good reason. Şırnak Mayor Ramazan Uysal, Batman Mayor Mr. Atalay, Diyarbakır County Parliament Speaker, Viranşehir Mayor Leyla Güven -- member of the Council of Europe's Local Administration Commission -- and there are 34 present, and over 50 of our mayors are inside. Why? You know why they're friends? From a press release, one of them is celebrating the 8th of March, one of them is talking at Nevroz, and for some reason, these releases don't come from our side. Look, Chief of Staff Ilker Basbug will see if he doesn't evacuate by Wednesday.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0022par0440	If it's not rude, it's the truth. You'll correct the mistake.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0019par0441	It's a shame, and then we regret it. Other evacuations start to come in chains.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0023par0442	Tell me about Reza. Tell me about Reza.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0022par0443	The KCK people have been released. Is the Basbug come here a lot?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0019par0444	Careful, we won't get our turn. Look, because the mentality of both parties of power and opposition, you can stay, you can lie down, you're separatists, you're separatists, you're laid down, the others are already in for the sake of Sakarya, the people of the country. Our heroic army burned down the village, killed a few people, killed 20,000 people in cold blood, what's it gonna be, dear? What will happen, my dear?... as long as you're in this weather, there's no justice in this country, there's no legal state, there's no human rights, call it independent judgment as much as you want. Look, what does the 90th article of our Constitution say? Independent courts use jurisdiction, don't they? There's a judge's guarantee, he says. Is there a judge's guarantee? I swear to God, all judges and prosecutors are now at the mercy of Mr. Bozdağ, but God is a man of conscience, the judge is the only one whose conscience the prosecutors will have.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0022par0446	Oh, and you're sucking up to the Minister, Hasip! While you're sucking up to the Minister, Hasip!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0024par0447	How do you know?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0019par0448	It's not the law, it's not the Constitution, it's the conscience of Mr. Bozdağ. I don't know what will happen if they get angry.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0025par0449	Where is the conscience, where is it? He moved everyone, where's the conscience?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0019par0450	No, now that special authority court, 20 judge prosecutors have gone. How many thousand judges and prosecutors are there after this?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0026par0451	Is there a firm agreement, Mr. Hasip?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0019par0452	So their only refuge is the minister's conscience. If he reverses his conscience a little bit, the judge is gone, the prosecutors. This HSYK is connected to the Minister now, friends, he's tied up, he's not gonna be able to move any more. This HSYK has passed, and Mr. Manor has confirmed it. Well, you, my brother, didn't do it properly. You've had a lot of experience, but why did he come back from AYM? And I think your cancellation application is due again Monday. Now, let's get to the point that no one can interfere with the judiciary under the 138th Article of the Constitution. Yes, isn't it? No one can talk about a case that's been seen. Don't these MPs talk from morning to night on this stand? We're talking, we're asking questions, we're proposing research, we're doing it in Congress. Aren't we, guys?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0027par0454	He can't speak, he can't command, he can't command.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0019par0455	We do. We say, we are lawyers, we speak the truth; we are lawyers, we will speak of the sacrifices, but in Article 139 of the Constitution... I mean, I'm surprised at you, all of you, really. Every time you come here, you always turn around like this, remind us of the oath. May I remind you of a vow you have sworn on human rights, law and democracy? Those who fail to keep your oath, you bastards! No human rights, no law, no justice, no democracy. You took an oath. You'll remind us, won't you? When we say, "Let our tongue be free." You remind us of our oath. No justice, no justice for you, no justice for him, no justice for him, no justice for him, no justice for him. A country without justice is not a law state. A port where a citizen will be sheltered, and after the justice of Hazreti Omar. You can change all the ministers you want, bring new ministers, change the judges, bring new ones. You're going to change the system, the system. When you don't change the system from the foundation to the Constitution, from the law to the law, from the education of judges and prosecutors, when you remove the interview and accept the interview properly, without discrimination, without barring, with law schools, without academic studies from abroad, they don't come to this country, friends. We've seen everyone come out one day looking for justice. There are still political mentalitys in this country that want to take the election on tape. This political mentality, the wrongs, nobody did it in the last election. Isn't it the duty of every congressman in Parliament not to do this anymore, not to be given a bonus? So, I'm asking you, isn't the right of these citizens to a fair trial, independent justice, the most valuable asset of the state of law? Really, the thing that's said most in this country is justice, and what isn't is justice, friends, and we're very clear. Look, didn't we agree to the Convention on Civil and Political Rights three years ago? Doesn't he have the right to a fair trial? Isn't there an economic, social contract? Didn't we put the 6th article of the European Convention on Human Rights into the 90th article of the Constitution? Which arrangement, for God's sake, is in accordance with these contracts? Can you tell me one? You will swear, but none of you will keep your oaths. Those who don't keep their vows end well in politics or in law or elsewhere, friends, I'm telling you. If you want to give this country a brand-new constitution in the 21st century, a democratic law, freedom of thought, organisation, a democratic election system where the nation can freely choose its candidates, a system of choice, without dams, without barriers, without anyone holding on to the skirts of leaders, with democracy within the party -- look, if you don't do this, suddenly, the citizen gets tired of seeing so many of the same types, sending them out in an election; he did it in 2002. Remember? All the faces of politics have gone, with their parties in the 2002 elections, new ones have arrived. We've come to 2014, twelve years have passed, and you're old friends, and we're old. Let's make room for the young, let's open it up. Let's leave the political will to the dynamic forces. We can't. In this country, we can't get the right independent justice laws, we just can't. He doesn't do power, he does what he wants, and we don't do it with his opposition. We all speak for the law. We're not all talking right, guys. If this is true, the rules are simple: HSYK will be independent, and you will guarantee it in the Constitution. You'll come back, and then you'll give the one percent of the money you've been saving for security, the gun, the one percent of the money you've been putting in the crates, the one percent of the money you've been putting in the boxes, to the Justice Department budget. There are 8,000 gaps, judges, prosecutors, staff deficits. Building, equipment, equipment... Look, guys, it's a shame. You haven't been able to open district courts since 2004. You said there was no building. You said there was no judge. You said there was no judge. It's a shame, it's a sin. You couldn't form a law enforcement unit. But when the operations took place, we got up in the morning, we opened the paper, and you changed the jurisdictions of the law enforcement office right away. The Istanbul prosecutor will not be able to investigate in Ankara, and Şırnak will not be able to do so in Ankara. Oh, you'll see after that! Ankara is in Ankara, İstanbul is in Turkey. And do crime investigations know the county line, friends? The guard's got a field, the police department's got a field. Now, you see, in the 21st century again, the prisoners of the sick are at death, and those who do not take precautions are all in hell, hell! That's all I'm saying. There is no God, no prophet, no justice, no humanity, no conscience. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's what I'm saying. They're waiting for death.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0028par0465	The man in charge is here.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0019par0466	I'm saying this for everyone, guys. Friends, we don't take sides with such smidgets. Bring in the right size, we'll be with you, we'll be with you, we'll be with the group. I'm serious. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0029par0470	Yes, thank you. Bedii Süheyl Batum, Eskişehir MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Batum.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0030par0474	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group regarding the motion to ask about Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ. First of all, let's take a look at what we've been going through in the last two months, and I'm not going to act like Mr. BDP. So far, he's out of time, couldn't make it to today. Bekir gave Bozdağ his conscience, and he was able to complete his views on the motion of the gene. Now, look, dear friends, on 17 December 2013 an investigation into crimes such as corruption, bribery, money laundering has been launched in the co-ordination of the İstanbul Special Prosecutor's Attorney General's Office. The investigation, including some ministers and relatives of those ministers and other executives and businessmen who served in the 61st government, reflected in media organs. Investigating him, the Home Secretary launched the greatest witch hunt in history on the same day. Forensic law enforcement officers in charge of the investigation have been relieved of duty, all law enforcement officials have been relieved of duty. So, in this investigation, the evidence has been obtained and the list of suspects has been requested. Bekir Bozdağ was appointed Minister of Justice on 25 December 2013. First thing he did right away, one. Two members of the apartment -- contrary to the law and the balance -- are 1. The removal of two members from the agency is immediately 1. A process was initiated when he was assigned to the apartment. After that, the proceedings prepared by Adana and Izmir Public Prosecutors and their detention, review and return for 45 days by the Minister of Justice. At the same time, a state-of-the-art bombing has been launched in the history of the Republic of Turkey and in any democracy of the world, and the laws... are written against us on the Internet. The HSHYK, uh, has passed on to other prosecutors to other judges. Let me seize HSYK immediately. Right away, HSYK law. The law of covering up corruption, destroying evidence, which we call the ministers, the ministers, the children of the ministers, Bilal, the sons of Reza Zarrabs; and they call the courts of special authority, we are democratizing. Right after that, the MIT law, the school law -- we're about to discuss now -- is a law that will make mass demonstrations a little bit more difficult for mass demonstrations. These are going away. It's all point fire, all individual, state-of-the-art laws. Now, my dear friends, the HSYK law is signed on Wednesday. Mr. Group Deputy President has just told us that on Thursday, the lists are being prepared, all preparations are being made, and Thursday is being published in the daily edition of the Official Gazette, the full liquidation movement is being launched on the same day, and, as they say, Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ is in charge of the RTE-type judge and prosecutors' deployment operation, and at the head of this operation, the current head of the operation is Bekir Bozdağ, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice, who is in charge of pulling the strings. Now we've always said it, and you've kept ignoring it while we were saying it, and you've closed your eyes tight, and one day even your children, I didn't see what happened when I was there, or what was I? Now, we asked Bekir Bozdağ, and we asked him during the HSYK Act, and we asked him in the law of covering these corruptions, and we asked him in the bailout law, and we said, "These are the shots, these are the people's laws, for the ministers, for the Prime Minister, for Bilal, for Reza Zarrab, let alone law, for justice, for the law, for justice, for the purity, for the conscience?" He said: "Our aim is to democratize, for democracy." What's that supposed to mean, to move from one mensubility to another? I said, "Ideology?" He said "Ideology." You may be a bad minister, but you don't use Turkish that badly; does ideology have the decency, does a person belong to ideology? Ideology is something else. It's quiet. I always say: 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, until 17 December 11 and a half months of 2013... did it not occur to you at the time to become a politician of Minister Uganda? Was Minister Papua the Minister of New Guinea? No, the Prime Minister didn't give that order at the time, he was a politician here, but he hadn't given instructions yet. Those sacrifices... have mercy! Those victims, those charges based solely on phone records, the indictments, the trial, the false evidence, the decisions, what happened? Those people are in there for seven years, six years, five and a half years, four and a half years with false evidence in their phone records, in their phone records, where did you become Minister of Justice? It's time for December 17th, the voice recordings made by ministers, even the Prime Minister's child, a, one minute, Bekir Bozdağ to watch, Bekir Bozdağ to work! There was one thing, I close my eyes, I do my duty! Mr. Bekir Bozdağ added two more verses, I'll bleed my conscience, I'll shut down the ministry! Dear friends, it's the motto, it's the motto, I close my eyes, I close the ministry! Now, I really believe that that might be the motto of a type of politics of Bekir Bozdağ, but could that be the motto of a politician, a minister of a democratic country? For what it's worth, I'll shut up in 2007, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13... when my Prime Minister asks me to, I'll close my eyes, I'll close my duty, I'll sit down as minister! Dear friends, I especially want to say that when the state was defined, let's close our eyes, let's close our eyes, let's close our eyes... whether Mr. BDP representatives were like that in the 1920s or in Athens democracy. When we look at it now...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0031par0483	You mess around, you get paid, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0030par0484	The state used to be defined by three elements, three elements. It was said that this state would have a country, a population, a community of people, a kingdom that we call the people. Look at the modern state definitions, when we look at modern books, we see that there is now the fourth element of the state, the law. A lawless state is a state that doesn't make sense of the other three elements. One of the most fundamental elements of the modern state is that the state is now bound by law, the state of law. Justice in the state of law is very important, judicial independence is very important, trust in the concept of justice is very important, so let's just say, let's face it, that someone in the legal state is locked up for seven years with false evidence, let alone fake evidence, with the same phone taps, without a conscience, without a conscience, when it comes to the Prime Minister, what's being done? Let me see, I'll make it stop. Come on, somebody on watch. Come on, call the prosecutors. It'll completely destroy the trust of justice in the state of the law. So I'm definitely saying that trust in justice in the state of law is very important. In short, we feel it is imperative that politicians in the legal state, like Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, never mind the law, never mind the law, close my eyes, do my duty, close the ministry. For one thing, dear friends, I've told you before -- just now Mr. Bal said you've crossed history. He said, "This is not the only time Mr. Bekir Bozdağ has passed through history." Mr. Bekir Bozdağ in the world is the only Minister of Justice in the world, the only one in the world, who has made a motion to put people away for ten years by saying, "Let it be ten years."
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0032par0487	Teacher, it's been reduced to five years.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0030par0488	Two: He is the only minister in the world who has kept the Fezlekes waiting 45 days and returned the prosecutors after changing them. In Adana, Izmir, the only minister in the world -- we don't have to explain it long -- is Mr. Faruk Bal -- who called the prosecutors directly and intervened in the report, the one who suggested incredible things to hide the interference. At least he'd say: "I close my eyes, do my duty, the boss is pleased, so I never called, I never called." Never mind, the tapas won't come out anyway. He could've said. Very clearly, yes, I did. What is it? She said it because she thinks it is. Of course, quite frankly, he said very nicely to the press the other day, and he said: "I called, I called, but if I say that the prosecutor is off duty. If I say that or so, stop asking. Let God take my life, he's a bastard, he's a scoundrel." We said, "Well, what did you say?" We said, "What did you say?" I told you to do your duty well, I reminded you of the MIT law." he said. Now, is it possible that the Minister of Justice has never read Article 277 of the Penal Code? Could he have never read the 288th article?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0033par0489	He doesn't know, Hajji!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0030par0490	There are, there are Ali, there are, never mind. I close my eyes, I do my duty, I take up the ministry! Dear friends, this is Mr. Secretary, the most imprisoned minister in the world, the minister who puts the motion on for ten years, the minister who puts the debates on hold, the minister who sends the reviews back, when he has no authority, the minister who removes the prosecutors from the office and says, "Hop, okay." And then I'll call those prosecutors: look at me, let me inform you, and I'll tell you about the law. The only minister in the world who expects us to believe that. Dear friends, the gene is an important weapon of the opposition, the middleman because we don't have a numerical majority. We want the public to know what's going on in this country.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0034par0493	Not every gun always sticks.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0030par0494	Now, each gun is always drawn, and where the majority of you close their eyes, we can at least announce it. But what we believe is that we need to use the gene, we need to use it in place. You don't always have to use it under any circumstances. That's why we believe that let me say Turkey with certainty -- that if there are a few ministers in the world who deserve to be questioned, Bekir Bozdağ is the head of them.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0035par0495	Come on, teacher, come on!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0030par0496	One of the most important ministers is the one who deserves to be asked. (CHEERING) Do you have it or not? You're going to take someone in, you're going to take them out in ten years, and you're going to put them in for an ad. Is that what you need? Bekir Bozdağ, over there! Do you have to shoot point blanks and make a corrupt law? Bekir Bozdağ is there! To black out the evidence, to destroy it, and to do that, we're becoming a great democrat. Should you answer the bithouse with sentences? Bekir Bozdağ is there! When you say, "What are you doing?," we become democratic, dear. Isn't it a shame? The only person looking at such laws in the world who can answer to them is Bekir Bozdağ! You're going to liquidate the judges? You need a new RTE-type judge, a prosecutor? Bekir Bozdağ is there! I stopped the fezlekes and sent them back against the Constitution, first I changed prosecutors. Mr. Bekir Bozdağ is there! Do you have to call the prosecutors and intervene? Do you have to clearly influence the person who serves as a judge against Article 277? Mr. Bekir Bozdağ is there! Dear friends, this is a gene question, and I'll tell you one thing, it's really, it's justified, and it's an important weapon of opposition for Bekir Bozdağ, who is the head of ministers who deserve to be questioned in the world. I want to stress in particular: I've ignored it, so forget it, what's going to happen, the one who chooses me is more important. We can all think about it, and we can all do it wrong. I want to say in particular what I said the other day: The Bekir Bozdağs can be found a lot, there was a lot of them in the past, and I even told you the example: let's make the Division head of the Democratic Party (Democratic Party) a district because they were very angry at the time, and let's not let this man come here. This is incompatible with the idea of justice. It's a 50-60 period we don't like. Now, of course, but that's politics, there are those who do their duty to Mr. Bekir Bozdağ everywhere. They find him right away, and they say: "You do the commission, I close my eyes, I do my duty, I get the commission head." He says, and he's the commissioner of the commission. Of course, at that time, the company chief said, "Ah, well, they pulled our rope on a Nevhirite." I told you that day, they had the Nevşehirman pulled a rope, and now they've got Mr. Bekir Bozdağ pulling the strings of someone's former accomplices. I hope, we... told you, Mr. Bekir, I believe that Bozdağ will be judged, and I believe that he will be judged.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0036par0509	Come on, Hodja.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0030par0510	But the thing of pulling the rope was hard, and I will not accept the thing of the company chief. We will judge him in the democratic state of law with fair, independent judgment, even if he pulls the strings, and he will certainly take responsibility for his crime. He'll take over as minister, which brings the arrest to ten years.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0036par0511	Who narrows it down to five years?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0030par0512	But let me just say, dear friends, that there are two laws that were made during that period, just like today, just like today. The Law on the move of the district of Abana to Bozkurt, and the extradition of CHP's wrongful provisions. Now, I'm stressing this one more time in particular, because when I said it, my very dear friends from your group came to me and said that that day... some of them were my students, and some of them weren't able to tell us, so we couldn't teach them. So I'm telling you, these laws were made between 50 and 60, and since there was no Supreme Court at the time, we couldn't cancel them. When the Constitutional Court was established after 62, the Constitutional Court called upon the Constitutional Court, and in 1967, the Constitutional Court called off both of these laws as such a purpose, such a public benefit, such a law? Now, I'm telling you... at the time, one of my dear friends came to me and said, "Hey, Hodja, I think you're confused, did the Constitutional Court cancel what was done in '54?" Now, for once, I couldn't tell you about that time. No, he didn't cancel because there was no Supreme Court at the time, so he canceled at 67. This will definitely cancel the laws you brought in, so don't worry. But in the meantime, you're the only Secretary of State who's ever had a motion to ask for the benefit of history, and who's definitely going to be tried in the future. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0037par0516	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0517	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0037par0518	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0519	Mr. President, by mentioning my name, Mr. Secretary, he was found in the 1930s, and without taunting me by saying anything else, and I would like to answer to him.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0037par0520	What did he say, mention your name?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0521	He taunted me by mentioning my name, saying that we stayed in the 1930s, that we could not come today.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0037par0522	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0525	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hatip, if you're a very appropriate young man, you're the main opposition party, why did you sleep and not bring it? (Applause from BDP rows) Can you tell me?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0039par0527	Bravo!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0528	Don't make us talk.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0040par0529	Speak, speak!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0530	You're offended when you're right. We stayed in the 30s! I brought it to this day, said it wasn't today, said it was the sin of law, justice, and three parties in it. Come on, let's change the system. Now you're asking why Hasip Kaplan is against it? Are there sick prisoners in this system? Is there long imprisonment in this question? Is there a retrial in this gene? The party's in custody, not even Engin Alan. Now, look, in this case, if the gene comes about the Minister of Justice, you're going to invest all the issues about justice, and if he's responsible, you're going to go for it. I'm no longer a parallel lover, I won't be, I won't be a lawyer. Guys, there's no need to make a mistake. You want to pull someone's strings, don't ask us for the coffee table. Go with your coffee table.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0041par0533	Yeah, you two got along great!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0534	Mr. Orator, you're talking about pulling rope, execution. Don't you realize it's been a long time since we've been on death row? Does that sound good on behalf of lion social democrats?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0041par0535	You're not criticizing the AKP, but you're going to criticize CHP? Don't criticize the AKP, okay!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0536	You're talking about pulling strings on behalf of a lawyer, on behalf of a professor; how do you pull strings? You want a coffee table. You want us to put a coffee table under you? Thousands of my politicians are inside fighting for freedom. Patient, 542 are dying. We're fighting them. We've come to this day and time to fight. Come, ask for a proper justice system, and I'll be there for all the parties. Without any distinction, we'll join our group because independent judgment applies to all of us, but you're so weak that Bozdağ will come and another 100 Bozdağ will come and go, and I'll tell you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0042par0539	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0043par0540	Mr. President, we need to fix something. There's bullying. I don't know what we mean about pulling the rope or...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0541	Didn't you look forward to it, brother?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0043par0542	There's a tease there. We need to explain that.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0044par0543	Here you go, Mr. Batum.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0544	You didn't look forward to it? Or are you playing jump rope?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0045par0545	When did he take it? He spoke of a fair trial, Your Honor. He told me about the fair trial.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0546	Are you playing rope jump, Hajji? Hodja, pulling a rope means hanging, you know that?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0045par0547	He told me about the fair trial. You're not talking straight.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0548	That's his name in legal literature. It's the rope that hangs Menderes.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0046par0549	Here you go, Mr. Batum.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0047par0551	Dear friends, now that we've told Parliament, we need to tell Mr. Kaplan. Now we have to tell Mr. Kaplan: Don't pull a rope, or the head of the company was not executed there. He thought so, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0552	We'll pull the plug. You said.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0047par0553	It has been converted into the district of Division Chief. The chairman of the commission to make this law became a member of parliament. He says, "If we're going to get sucked in, let Nevşehirli take a picture." Now, Mr. Hasip Kaplan probably doesn't know much about it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0554	There is, there is... you know.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0047par0555	So he thinks that they have executed the chief of the company, and a Nevhirite has pulled his rope. He tells me you talked about pulling rope. Do you, a constitutional lawyer, talk about pulling strings? No, that's metaphorical... but now I get it. Mr. Parliament, I apologize to you, Mr. Kaplan; I'll tell Parliament to pull the rope when I use the metaphor, and I'll turn to Mr. Kaplan and say, "Sir, I used metaphor here." I pulled the plug.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0558	And when I said the rope of Menderes, I thought of the rope of the sea.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0048par0559	Come on, answer me now.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0047par0560	Now, dear friends...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0561	I think of those who hang on September 12th! It's not easy pulling strings like that. You'll be careful what you say, you're a professor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0047par0562	Dear friends, it's all in the works.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0563	What's rope?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0049par0564	Sit here, sit here!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0565	I'm here. I'm in a place of honor!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0050par0566	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0567	What's rope got to do with it? You're talking about pulling strings in the 21st century. Shame, shame!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0051par0568	Let me tell you this: One day after we can explain what it is to pull the strings, we can talk to the Seawalkers, we can talk to Abdullah Ocalan, we can talk to the PKK, we can talk about everything.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0569	Whose rope are you pulling?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0051par0570	We'll talk about the Republic, but first let them understand that when the Republican People's Party's MP pulls the plug, he says it with the understanding of the company leader, he never talks about pulling strings, he never talks about killing people. I'll tell you about it and we'll talk about it later.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0038par0573	Always... always...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0052par0574	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0053par0575	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0052par0576	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0053par0577	Mr. Kaplan has interpreted the question we gave him in a different way and taunted us. I want to explain it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0052par0578	What did he say, Mr. Halaçoglu? How did he interpret it differently?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0053par0579	He expressed that his youth was not present, and that he was not present in Engin Alan. Our question isn't about them.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0052par0580	Here, I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0053par0582	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, there's no way we're going to be able to do anything by screaming in here, so I'll tell you that first. Now, what minister did we give you when we gave you the gene?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0054par0584	Minister of Justice...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0053par0585	The current Minister of Justice. We didn't give it to the government or give it to a minister of justice before, we gave it to him about the current Minister of Justice. So we can only do so in connection with the current Minister of Justice's actions. The presence of the Engin Alan Sir is not related to the current Minister of Justice. So while we're reviewing justice, while we're reviewing the legal system in Turkey, we're talking about the decisions made about Engin Alan or the decisions made before that, but we can't give the current Minister of Justice a question because of Engin Alan. So it's one thing to express unfair behavior here, but it's another thing to ask about the actions of the current Minister of Justice. We say that the current Minister of Justice has uncovered a large chain of scandals in the law before or when he is a minister; he immediately moved prosecutors and judges, and stepped in front of corruption. That's why we gave Mr. Minister of Justice the gene. Otherwise, the sledgehammer, Ergenekon, or the conspiracy of the army, the conspiracy of the national army -- which the government itself agreed to in the end -- did not mention. In fact, what needs to be done, of course, is that the government -- if it's set up by the national army -- must take measures to uncover this plot, and those people need to get rid of the burden of the people lying inside. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0055par0589	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0056par0591	Mr. Kaplan said in his speech that the National People's Party had to give us the real gene, he didn't bring it. He made an assessment and teased us, sir.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0057par0592	No, if you're so defensive, why didn't you bring it?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0055par0593	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. Two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0058par0596	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are a constitutional institution, the parliamentary investigation is a constitutional institution, and since December 17th, the government, Mr. Prime Minister, some former ministers are the subject of a bribery and corruption investigation; these are serious days. In such a serious period of time, of course, the genera is a serious institution, and the parliamentary investigation is also a serious institution, but as we move towards the election, in a compressed calendar, we find it not right to bring them to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but it is on the agenda of the Republican People's Party. When we give them to them, we'll get results in Parliament. We don't plan on giving a geneor to be rejected, we don't plan on giving a parliamentary inquiry motion to be rejected; when we get results, we'll bring them to Parliament, and you'll all see.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0059par0597	There's a new operation, then.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0058par0598	The second thing I'm going to say is that we've discussed the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Act here for days, we've discussed the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Act until morning, and we voted ten o'clock last Saturday morning; we've been here as Republican People's Party. Mr. Hasip Kaplan is a politician I like very much, who fills this bench with excitement, and I'm excited to follow him, but I want to ask him: where was the Peace and Democracy Party when we voted no to that law?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0060par0599	Look at the records, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0059par0600	How many people did you say no to?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0058par0601	Where was it? Which vote did they vote for?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0059par0602	Two parties, 18 people, two parties.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0061par0603	Mr. Hamzacebi, take a look at the transcripts, see if you've got twice as much opposition.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0058par0604	I wonder what vote they voted for in the electronic vote. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0062par0607	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0063par0608	There were 18 of you two parties.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0064par0609	How many votes did you vote for, how many votes?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0065par0610	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0066par0611	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0065par0612	Mr. Hamzacebi, where were you at the HSYK vote?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0066par0613	Where were you?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0065par0614	That's what I'm gonna answer to.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0066par0615	Here you go. I'll give you two minutes, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0065par0618	Friends, you have 135 MPs, as the main opposition, God will increase, and I'm not saying anything; you'll earn the nation's gratitude, you'll increase, you'll come. You'd better raise it yourself than get 50 from here.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0067par0619	Mr. Hasip, what will they take from here?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0068par0620	What are they gonna get out of there?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0065par0621	If our citizens entered the HSYK reports from the Internet, you'd see that BDP had the most effective opposition, the most effective opposition. Look, to the end... Now, for God's sake, we're the party that called the referendum, the party that called the HSYK referendum, the boycott. In every article, we have a motion, our name is read in every report, and our opposition has been 10 times more effective than yours. Now, when there were 135 of you -- I'm not counting the MHP -- why don't you stay in 20...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0069par0623	18... 18...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0065par0624	Did you stay at 18? Why? Why? If there are such opposition, they will be in power for 20 years.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0070par0626	Mr. Hasip, 20 years is too much!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0065par0627	I swear to God, you'll see the Peace and Democracy Party in this election in the region, and we'll see you guys. I mean, you're the reason he's in power, so what am I supposed to do? I swear to God, I mean, they're going down there and they're doing two prayers for you, so God doesn't deprive us of such opposition. I mean, brother, I didn't see your seats being filled one day.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0071par0628	If you've been supportive...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0065par0629	If you fill it up, raise your hand, maybe you'll refuse, but you won't come, you don't like the House. I don't understand, but you're coming at me.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0072par0631	Mr. Hasip, they won't pick on you again.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0065par0632	I worked with you guys all the way back to the 90s, and then I realized I was on the wrong track, on the path of peace and democracy. We're in business, that's what this is about, so I'm sorry. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0073par0635	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0074par0636	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0073par0637	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0075par0638	Mr. President, don't promise the Justice and Development Party, Mr. Hasip, there's no need for AKP to speak.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0076par0639	There's no answer to that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0073par0640	Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0077par0641	Mr. President, Mr. Kaplan has struck again, sir.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0076par0642	I wonder what he's gonna say.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0073par0643	Mr. Hamzacebi, please have the last word for bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0078par0646	Dear lawmakers, I asked a question: Where was the Peace and Democracy Party in the vote of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Law Proposal?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0079par0647	We're boycotters, brother, for God's sake!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0078par0648	So I've made a motion in every article, and the reason for our proposal has been read.... are these not grounds; have you voted or not?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0080par0649	What did you do? What right have you to ask that?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0081par0650	How many votes did you vote for?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0078par0651	You didn't use it, you left it, you left it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0082par0652	Yes, we boycotted it, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0083par0653	How many votes did you vote for?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0078par0654	So if the Peace and Democracy Party had really opposed that law, they would have voted here, no. If you had voted no, I would have accepted that the Peace and Democracy Party had voted no.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0082par0655	We're boycotts, boycotts.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0078par0656	I, now, don't think you're against that law because you didn't vote. Turkey has been rife with corruption and bribery investigations since December 17th...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0084par0657	18 people were against that law.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0078par0658	...you've never once made an assessment of this from this bench, not once have you spoken against him...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0085par0660	Make it love! Yeah, yesterday we downloaded a motion to investigate corruption.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0078par0661	You didn't make an assessment of these allegations of corruption, you even said that a friend of ours said that if these coins were stolen, they were stolen from the Turkish treasure, not our concern. He made an assessment. Dear MPs, look, let's be frank, let's be clear. This is, of course, from the nationalist movement party's discretion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0085par0663	It's too heavy, too heavy.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0078par0664	We're discussing an important matter, but Mr. Kaplan says: "Why didn't the Republican People's Party bring this gene?" On the other hand, he says: "There is no Engin Alan in this genome, there are no imprisoned friends." On the one hand, you say, "Why didn't you bring this gene?" But you don't have that in general. I see them as contradictions. I think I've given Mr. Kaplan a chance to talk, and he'll thank me for it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0086par0667	Before Mr. Kaplan, I thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0087par0668	Thank you. That's what you're really good for, thank you. Mr. President, that was a heavy pick-me-up.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0086par0670	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0087par0671	He picked on me too hard. He said that BDP had not said a word about corruption on this stand.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0086par0672	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0087par0674	Now, dear lawmakers, I'm surprised at this main opposition party sometimes, friends. Didn't we just download a motion to investigate corruption yesterday -- fear God?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0088par0675	Yeah, yeah, we're witnesses.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0087par0676	Isn't this all part of our proposal to investigate corruption? Come on down here on this stand, take out your memos, he was talking about other things, he wasn't talking about corruption. When we downloaded the research proposal, your speaker came and talked about something else on it, that's one. Look, Mr. Hamzacebi, I love you very much, and I love the Offians.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0089par0678	I'm not Oflu.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0087par0679	Look, do you see the new motion, signed by Hasip Kaplan? This is the Peace and Democracy Group. The parallel structure is the most important emergency agenda in Turkey. This is about corruption, victim, action! You can't come at us with a test of intimacy. Why can't you come with a test of intimacy? You are still in your 30s, indeed. When you say Kurdt, you jump, denial. Don't deny it when you say "talk." A little different identity, culture, song, denial when you say "haley." Denial, denial, denial. And you are not able to frustrate [Him] in this [state], because you dispute with the disbelievers amongst yourselves. I mean, the one who contributed to Turkey's true identity, to its equal citizens, to its brotherhood...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0090par0681	Tell the truth if these corruptions don't concern you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0087par0682	I know there are some very dear friends of yours, but we're going to talk about the package of democratization, and we're going to test you again. I'm not saying we're going to test your integrity, we're going to test some of your friends. We know that very well, but you can't test us, guys. We're coming and going, we're the party of the future, guys, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0091par0684	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0092par0685	Mr. President, in every motion to investigate corruption, our friends who stand on the stand representing us talk about corruption, they don't talk about anything else. I'm presenting this to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0087par0686	Here, read it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit01spe0091par0687	Well, thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0091par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (11/31) We will continue the talks of the primary Gensorial Introduction (11/31). The government is in place. Idris Şahin, Çankırı MP who has asked for the Justice and Development Party Group to speak on behalf of the motion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0093par0009	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the motion to ask about our Minister of Justice, Bekir Bozdağ. I salute your high council. I will submit my speech to the General Assembly in two parts. This will first be a brief discussion of the provisions made in the judiciary during the AK PARTI rule, followed by responding to the issues alleged in the geneor and in the grounds. Of course, we've signed under the radical and comprehensive changes that will not fall under any republic's government during 12 years of EC PARTI rule in order for an independent and neutral judiciary to take place here. The fact that we do not see these changes in the field of judgment, which are almost renaissance, which bring our country's legal system to the level of modern democracies, has a meaning that exceeds the limits of good intentions and mercy. I'm one of those who have had the opportunity and the opportunity to see and see the state of the judiciary before the AK PARTY governments, or rather the purmalance of the judiciary, as a man who has done the law work honorably for many years. To this day, I have always said that it would be right to analyze problems with a realistic eye and plan the steps to determine the problems of the judiciary and solve them. The basic functions of democratic modern states expressed as legislation, execution and judiciary have begun to change, along with the development of relations between countries. International values, which form as globalization, have also affected national legal systems, and this has become a factor that national lawmakers cannot ignore when implementing legislature functions. Thus, countries that cannot make global values part of national legal systems in harmony with the international community are in danger of being isolated from the general world system. This danger has actually increased the importance of the democratic legal state, which sustains its existence with all its functions. After the 3 November 2002 general elections, our government, which came to power alone, gave a strong boost to the democratic reform process in order to free our country from its custody regime and build a democratic law state. In addition to political, economic and social reforms, such as improving, developing and making participating democracy in the world standards for the purpose of achieving this goal, Turkey, which has a claim and effort to become a leading country in its own geography, as well as establishing the rule of law and bringing human rights to international standards as a whole. With these obligations, our country, in its time, especially to the knowledge of the person who spoke here earlier, because the AK PARTI at the point of democratisation has not taken a step, has done nothing. For those who have said, simply, my examples should be in their ears. The removal of state security courts and private officials courts, the recognition of the right to individual application to the Constitutional Court, the adoption of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors into a more pluralistic and more equitable structure, the recognising of our criminal and legal legislation in accordance with the requirements of the age, the restructuring of the physical resources of the judiciary, the development of technical infrastructure of the courts, and many service and progress, thank God, has been given to our government, in accordance with the requirements of the age of the age, that the period of imprisonments are not subject to violations of the European Court of human rights. After 2002, significant changes and improvements have been made in the European Union's law on human rights, especially in the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, the Penal Code, the Penal Code, the Criminal Code, the Law on Associations, the Press Law, the Law on Turkish Civil Law, the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations, the Law on Terrorism and Military Courts and other laws. Through the reforms and integration of our government, the vision of integration into modern civilization has revealed the will to reach a more liberal, more participatory democracy. Our government has also been the architect of many radical changes in the field of justice that have never been given to any of the republic's governments before. Let's all remember that we see a Turkey, which is trapped under government mansions, which serves as a judicial service in ruined and ruined buildings, today is a state-of-the-art judicial service produced in court palaces with modern technological infrastructure.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0094par0018	Buildings are important?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0093par0019	Of course, we are aware that we need to increase the spending of infrastructure. Not seeing all of this is no longer a realistic political stance to criticize every innovation with just, and only political accounts. We also have full faith that these services have been repaid and will be found in the great nation, which we have always believed in, in its common sense and in its trust in us. In order for the standards of human rights in our country to be raised to the level of modern civilizations and to be fully legislatured and practical, we have implemented many legal regulations in this process, in line with universal law norms, EU progress reports, and in particular by the European Court of Human Rights. Mr. President, it is with the same principle and determination that I will take a picture of the state of the judiciary before and after the AK PARTI administrations today, and briefly share with you how the motion for the genenomous motion on Mr. Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ is incompatible with the facts and norms of the law: We've analyzed the modern legal system while someone's talking. In order to ensure the neutrality and independence of the judiciary, we have always considered the European Union Agreement for Human Rights, the European Condition for the Status of Judges, the Venice Commission reports, the principles of the European Judiciary Committee, the principles of the United Nations' judicial independence, the fundamental principles of the issue -- particularly the Continental Europe and Anglo-Saxon legal systems -- and the modern legal principles adopted by universal law. We built our structural reforms in the field of law, our own social life, our history, and our practice of law on realistic principles in accordance with national interests and international commitments. In our time, Turkey became a more democratic, more transparent, fully independent country in the judiciary. We've become a nation that's been warding national will, struggling with the laws of law with all the structures that want to continue with the dirty habits of the past. Praise be to God, for today our country has become a prestigious actor who has not been guided by its growing economy and power, but by its stable political structure from the support and prayer of our beloved nation. We never gave up our way, despite attempts that he obviously didn't respect any obstacles, no originals, no scribbles, and no national will. Because this is the path of democracy; this is the path of the oppressed; this is the path of the great Turkey, where the national will lives with all its institutions. Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, here today, our Minister of Justice faces a number of affakis and abstract attributes with no legal basis. In the motion issued by the MPs of the National Movement Party Group, it is alleged that Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, our Minister of Justice, has influenced the judicial authorities in the investigations conducted by Izmir, İstanbul and Adana by the republic's chief prosecutors, pressuring judicial officers and judicial members, allowing them to be dismissed, using his influence on newly appointed judicial officers and members of the judiciary, and affecting the investigations in order to get results in the favour of some suspects. In addition, at the meeting of the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors on January 15, 2014, the reason for the gene question was the 1st meeting of HSYK. It is stated that two members of its agency have been changed in violation of law and balance and that the agency has been politically influenced and that 20 republic's prosecutors have been relocated. In particular, the precious orator who speaks here on behalf of the MHP Group has the identity of a lawyer we've known since the past, and he is a man who knows perfectly how the structure of the HSYK works, how the working methods of the apartments work. As a result, Mr. Minister of Justice knows perfectly well that he did not serve in the apartment while making decisions here, and that the HSYK General Assembly has also met with 15 people and made decisions, and it is clear and clear that such savings have been made before the HSYK law was released from the Parliamentary General Assembly. So, in the process that we've always come here to defend the principles of the state of law, the full independent and neutral judiciary, we're never, ever, ever going to be able to accept a suggestion at this point and such a determination. The second article of the Constitution stated clearly that the Republic of Turkey is a democratic, secular and social state, and that the nineth article titled "judgment authority" was used by independent courts on behalf of the Turkish nation. The guarantee of a judge, the guarantee of a prosecutor, is also one of the provisions envisioned in the Constitution. The fundamental component of the rule of law is judicial independence, the most effective guarantee of human rights and freedoms.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0095par0026	Fear God!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0093par0027	The independence of the courts is generally used as a synonym for the concept of the independence of judges, and one is understood as the cause and the natural consequence of the other.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0095par0028	Do you believe that?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0093par0029	The independence of judges is not a privilege given to them, but its goal is to establish confidence and faith that justice will be disbanded indirect, direct, effective, pressure, guidance, and doubt.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0095par0030	Do you believe that?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0093par0031	The basic strategy, which dominates the criminal justice law in universal law, is to establish the balance between the protection of social order and respect of the individual's fundamental rights and freedoms, and to rule and enforce fair sanctions based on the principle of fair trial. The article (1) of Article 2 of Penal Code No. 5271 refers to the fact that the investigation, according to law, has passed the phase from the fact that suspicion of crime with the authorities to the adoption of the indictment, and one of the events in which the prosecutor is obliged to observe is respect for basic rights and freedoms. According to our criminal law system, the only authority in the investigation process is the republic's prosecutors. Therefore, the republic's attorney is obliged to secure and protect the suspect's rights by gathering evidence and evidence against the suspect, in order to investigate the material truth and to ensure a fair trial. Investigating procedures are carried out primarily by a legal law enforcement officer following the orders and instructions of the republic's attorney. Law enforcement officers are obliged to carry out the state's attorney's orders regarding judicial duties. In carrying out this mission, the republic's prosecutors are obliged to secure and protect the rights of suspects and victims by gathering all the evidence in favor of the suspect or the victim and in order for the investigation of the material truth and a fair trial to be carried out. In particular, a valuable orator stated: The last appointed republic's chief prosecutor issued a summary of the documents that were in the hands of the judicial arm. There is absolutely no such situation. Because if there's any evidence at the bottom of the forensic investigation, it's in the investigation file. Therefore, you can never, ever black out a document or information that will affect the safety or direction of the investigation. That's a mistrial of evidence and a crime in the law. It is never, never, ever possible to expect an incident committed by an Istanbul Public Prosecutor to act as a common citizen. And I want to say this in particular by drawing a thick line under it. Because a student in the 1st class of law school is well aware that any procedure intended to blacken evidence is a crime. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have given some authority to the state's attorney's office in the Constitutional Courts of Adliment No. 5235 and to the State's Attorney's Office of the District Court of Justice. You know, it's said that the Attorney General, under the influence of the Attorney General, took the files away from the prosecutors, gave them to other places in front of the prosecutors. Now, the attorney general has a right to be born of the law, says that there is an obligation given by the Attorney General, such as to do the work in an efficient, harmonised and orderly way. This is one of the issues in which the prosecutor's office wants to take all the documents and submit them to someone else. Without seeing any of this, Mr. Turan Çolakkadi, who has acted solely in the investigation carried out by the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, has taken the authority and authority from the law to follow public opinion and to take into account the following and well-known statements of the investigation. Again, Mr. Colakkadi has expressed his legal authority in every way. Also, 1. It is also important to be known that the body's authority to determine which apartment the board members will serve in is also in the General Assembly of the HSYK. Your members here, 20 members, except for the Undersecretary and the Secretary, are necessarily 1. In the apartment, 2. In the apartment, 3. Just because he's going to work in an apartment doesn't mean he's going to be forced to be there. Of the 20 members, 20 are more valuable than others. As a result, I'd like to say that this change between apartments is normal, and at this point, it's particularly against the spirit of that general council to say that the Ministry is in the field of influence. Mr. President, the Minister of Justice has no authority to instruct the prosecutors or judges on the investigation process, but has a political responsibility to the community to determine justice policies and to conduct investigations in accordance with the law, to ensure justice is correct. As a matter of fact, the responsibility for issues that arise in judicial matters is first imposed on the Minister of Justice and is primarily expected of the Minister of Justice to address them. It's also related to another claim, especially here, I would like to add: Mr. Minister has no authority to return the case files he received, and he has no luxury of reviewing them in 45 days. However, I would like to make it very clear to you that there is a reasonable period of examination of the four ministers on the grounds of whether or not the actions claimed to be a personal crime, whether or not they remain within the scope of legislative irresponsibility or immunity, whether they are under the general policy of the Council of Ministers because of their duties. As a result, if there is a crime due to their duties, the case is obliged to come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but if there is a problem due to their personal crimes, the republic's prosecutors are obliged to send it to the Ministry of Justice by filing a complaint. As a result, the authority to investigate whether the alleged actions are related to the mission and whether the actions related to personal crimes are involved is, of course, in the republic's attorney general's office. If he has any personal responsibilities, he is obliged to send them to the Ministry of Justice, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, if he has any responsibility for the crime of duty. I'd like to put it this way: in the name of democratization and in the name of the neutrality and independence of the judiciary, the power of the AK PARTI... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... for twelve years, he's carried out any responsibility he's had. Therefore, Mr. Minister of Justice, who has political responsibility to the citizen, has the right to bring in a bill for solving the problems of HSYK at the point where HSYK is stuck. Other than that, the regulations in special authorities' courts say they are arrangements for this country to continue its march with more democratic norms, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0096par0044	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0097par0045	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0096par0046	Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0097par0047	Mr. President, as I speak, the information he gave to my speeches is wrong -- three points is wrong -- I want to promise to correct him.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0096par0048	Here, I promise you two minutes for teasing.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0097par0051	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, we're speaking for the people here, and we need to make it clear. Yes, I'm one of the people who knows the inside and out of HSYK. I know very well, and everyone knows that HSYK makes two decrees a year, one of which is a summer decree we call a big decree, and the other of which is what we call an excuse decision, which includes disciplinary action. But, Mr. Secretary, on January 15th, he chaired HSYK to replace prosecutors in a number of places that showed up in corruption operations and touched his zülfüyüyüya. On the same day, the 1st of HSYK. Two members were expelled from his apartment, sent to other locations, and two members who he thought could vote on his side were 1st. He was brought to the apartment. A day after this operation, judges and prosecutors who conducted corruption operations in Istanbul were destroyed. On January 21st, four days after this operation, judges and prosecutors, who, again, were going to do or do investigations in 97 plea decrees, in various areas, 16 major cities -- cities where their arm forces were torn apart -- were assigned. After that, another 166 were issued. Thus, instead of a decree called the decree of the winter, they would take part in these operations, and they assigned judges and prosecutors in certain places to put similar judges in charge, such as these judges over there, and protect those who are involved in supporting corruption. Here's the main purpose of this problem, as Minister of Justice, is to enter into the judiciary, to enter into the judiciary, independence, neutrality, and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's about him destroying his warranty. On the other hand, it is not possible for the Istanbul prosecutor to do such a thing. I'll give you his image; that's what he says, destroy the evidence. This prosecutor's actually right. He's right about what? He says, "Destroy the evidence with the law that has been lifted with your mindless fingers."
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0098par0058	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0099par0059	What an expression, Mr. Honey! What kind of expression is this, the one with the brains, the one without the finger? You're welcome.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0100par0060	Our fingers don't have brains, I'll tell you that, otherwise we've got brains!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0101par0061	Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0102par0062	Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0101par0063	Mr. Orator, he's taunting both our group and our own, saying your ignorant fingers. If you'll excuse me, I'd like two minutes without teasing.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0102par0064	Mr. Hawk, Mr. Secretary will speak for 20 minutes. He will answer.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0101par0065	If you'll excuse me for a moment or two, I need an explanation.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0103par0066	Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0102par0067	Here you go, Mr. Hawk, two minutes...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0101par0069	Thank you. Mr. President, thank you. I, if you'll notice, have completed my twenty-minute speech here, describing the events of which no group has been hurt, the basis of the law, the basis of democratisation, and the 12 years of our work in the AK PARTI administration, and I've just said that there is no prosecutor we know by his legal identity who can give orders and instructions against the law. Now, we haven't seen the phrase there, and the content of the phrase may say that if there are countless illegal listenings, if there are some tapes, we don't know the contents of the file, and we all know that there's a confidentiality decision in the file, but unfortunately, Mr. BalIDE has it in his hand, even though there's a confidentiality decision in that file.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0104par0073	It's on the Internet. It's on the Internet.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0101par0074	That's why the AK PARTY government is fighting the sidelines of the judiciary. How does the opposition get these sentences, how does the press get their hands on them? That's what we're investigating, investigating, and what our Minister wants to do, but other than that, Mr. President will join the HSYK General Assembly as chairman and as Minister, but he will not participate in the work of any agency, Mr. Bal. You know that very well. None of the appointments on that day have his signature on them. As for the other judge's testimony, when these were arrested, when the names you mentioned were arrested, we believed there was a legal state in this country, and we believe that this country was the state of law when it was evacuated today. As a result, he's a judge, a judge who's been arrested, and a judge who's been released. There's also an appeal, the law is clear, subject to objection. 3. If he's decided to evacuate, the prosecutor may object, and there may be a different verdict.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0105par0077	There are no prosecutors to object to, they've all changed.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0101par0078	I salute you all, that our faith in the state of the law will always continue, no matter where it comes from.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0106par0080	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0105par0081	Mr. President, the speaker has made it sound like I'm the one who obtained information in a classified investigation into this piece of writing that's all over the place. I want a promise to explain this matter.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0106par0082	Here you go, Mr. Honey. Looks like Mr. Secretary's not gonna get a word in edgewise. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0107par0085	It's just that he's a minor, so...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0108par0087	We're seriously waiting for Mr. Secretary to tell us what he's going to say. Dear friends, I said I'd send a statement from this document, but I didn't get a chance, so thank you very much for the opportunity to speak again. What I'm referring to is not a classified document in the way you misjudged it. There's no hidden brand on this. Two: This document is found on websites. It's in everyone's hands, not mine alone. Three: This document, as you put it, does not say to remove the tapes of unlawful wiretaps, but to remove the evidence from December 15th. So what he means is that the investigations between Prime Minister Erdogan and his son Bilal tell us to remove their deeds...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0109par0092	Who's to say to remove evidence that's already been filed? Is that even possible? You're fooling people.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0108par0093	To remove the deeds of the businessmen about collecting millions of dollars in pools. I mean, some villas...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0109par0094	So you're saying he's hooked up with the Internet. That's what we need to do with the Internet.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0108par0095	Listen to me. The government says to remove tapes of villas built for use for the use of the power of the prime minister, within sites that cannot be built on. That's the order, that's the order. This is an order from the court.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0110par0097	Oh, wouldn't that be something, Mr. Honey? Oh, please!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0108par0098	It is the Minister of Justice who has brought this judgment to its conclusion. That's the basis of your gene.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0110par0099	Put them away in official writing. Is that what it says? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0108par0100	Sir?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0110par0101	Is that a thing?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0108par0102	I'm showing you it's there; it's signed; İsmail Uçar, İstanbul Public Prosecutor; İrfan Fidan, İstanbul Public Prosecutor; Murat Çağlar, İstanbul Public Prosecutor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0110par0103	Okay, it's not hard to produce a document like that!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0111par0104	If such a thing exists, the first thing you do is press charges against this person, not bring it in and read it here. Well, if that's the case...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0108par0105	You're the political force that created this, and I'm the opposition force that's going to be responsible for you. That's why I'm here.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0112par0106	Yes, thank you. In the name of the government on the motion...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0113par0108	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0112par0109	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0113par0112	Now, while our speaker was on the stand, the AKP deputy leader of the group made a statement in the form of a fason genotype. Now, you know that it's the Constitution's right to parties in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I condemn this to be called 'fason', and I want him to apologize.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0114par0113	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0115par0114	Fasona is called the fason!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0116par0115	Thank you. Now, Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ wants to speak on behalf of the government on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Bozdağ.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0117par0122	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion by the members of the National Movement Party to open a gene for me. I hereby salute your esteemed committee. Dear lawmakers, it is a very serious matter to ask a minister to open a gene question; it has constitutional guarantees; it is in accordance with our Civil Code. If you are given a gene question on false information or rumors or political opposition, it reduces the value of the business, not for the minister given the gene, but for those who give it a windbreaker, I would like to express it especially in your presence. Because this whole thing is falling apart. The desire to open up a gene is basically a bad dream phrase. You know, when dreams happen, you see them dead, you see them alive, you see them in the day, you see them in the dark, and then what it means is that if you see them dark, you see them in the day like this. It would lower the reputation of the institution, lower the reputation of the recipients, but as a minister, I'm sure it would raise my reputation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, I'd like to make a brief assessment of what's going on in the genome. I'm not going to make an assessment of the personalities here. Because this is serious business. I'm not going to make an assessment of anyone who puts a polemic on this serious business. It was the audience, and I'm not going in. The regulation that makes the amendment to the Law of the Judiciary Law is in accordance with the Constitution and the Law, and I would like to underline that for once. Because the title of Article 167 of CMK is the regulation. The regulation on the judicial law will be jointly presented by the Ministry of Justice and Interior. It's a regulation that's been issued within this scope, that's one. Two: Police are neither under the Minister of Justice nor under the Minister of the Interior while serving as a legal officer. Our laws are very clear. Law enforcement officers who serve as law enforcement officers act on the orders and instructions of the republic's attorney during the mission. Any law enforcement officer -- this could be the county commissioner or anyone else -- can't give them orders or instructions. That's not what I'm saying, it's the law. If there's a hierarchical connection to a forensic branch that no one can give instructions to, which the Justice Department and the Justice Department have no connection to. Forensic law enforcement is essentially a matter of the Ministry of Internal Affairs when you look at it from an administrative standpoint, but it does not belong to the Home Secretary or the Minister of Justice. You bring up a subject that has nothing to do with me, and the minister instructs me to do so. If you comment on it, it is like day or night, is it like a dream? Is it true? A little serious, please. Look, on the other hand, there's been savings for police officers in the armband to move managers, not the Department of Justice, but the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but the right savings? Right savings because all of these savings are legal and legal savings. When you have appointed a county manager, the county manager has determined his assistants, branch managers, or which police officers will work with him after all the first appointments in Turkey. Not only did the new Istanbul County Police Commissioner and the newly appointed police commissioners, but all former police chiefs have done the same.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0118par0130	Who gave the order?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0117par0131	For example, Mr. Huseyin Çapkın changed his assignment to 2,500 people in 2008. Ercument Yilmaz became the Chief of Police, making a change of venue for 2,298 police officers or employees at his command. Every time you look at the numbers, every time the chief of police is appointed, he does that. Why? Of course, he's the one who's going to decide the position he's going to be working with, so what's more natural than that? For him, those who are tempted by the routine process of December 17 may be subject to a different assessment, but the job requires assessments of new assignments that are always made, and I would like to express that in particular.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0119par0133	Do you believe that yourself, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0117par0134	Of course, the alleged violation of law and order of members who will serve in the apartments of the HSYK has been declared both against the law and contrary. I was wondering, how is it that this is illegal, what is the nature of this situation, that the Minister of Justice, as head of the HSYK, did something to bring this situation to its knees? I've asked my friends, so tell me, what have I done? I don't know. There's something about this gene, but I don't know about it. Tell me how I did it, let me know.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0120par0135	You wouldn't if you knew.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0117par0136	They brought the law, they say... the law is clear, and the second joke of Article 8 of the HSYK Law puts some groundwork on members who will serve in apartments. Under it, the General Assembly decides by choice which apartment members will serve as primary and complementary members, according to the above principles. What happened at the meeting? The General Assembly has put the matter on the agenda. What choice did he make? He made a choice based on the above bases, decided which member would serve in which apartment. It's a job that's based on the essence of the law, and it's a job that's appropriate. Because he's made one choice, it's in the middle, it's in the middle, you know, it's a lot of work, and there's no precedent. But even if you accept that one time, it'll suit him. Because in the beginning, the General Assembly decided the same way who would work in the apartments, and what was done was completely appropriate. There's nothing illegal about this place, either by law or by default. How do we do this? It's just that the members' duties have changed in the apartments, so we're getting something out of it. Well, if we start to make that kind of sense, then everyone can easily accuse each other. The law is not based on meaning, but on objective evidence. The law acts not on the terms of dreams, but on concrete evidence, but also on dreams, on subjective evaluations. And for him, what we do is in accordance with the law and the law and the procedure, it's a completely appropriate arrangement. Of course, there have been assessments of the appointment of judges, prosecutors. It is the duty of an office of the board to appoint prosecutors. That's what the apartment does, 1st. The apartment has always issued appointment orders. There's only one big decree in the year, but other than that, there's an alibi. Recently, 1. On a television show, we asked the judges if there should be an alibi or a lot of excuses. They turned to us, and they said: "Let the great decree be one, but there may be many excuses, because there may be appointments made to this excuse when needed." And we obeyed it. In 2011, 20 decrees were issued for him, 16 decrees were issued in 2012, 11 decrees were issued in 2013. These decrees are normal. Most of the decisions that came out after we became ministers -- you've expressed them -- are plea decrees. It's a decision made by judges, by prosecutors. The number of appointments provided as a service is very few. If you connect all of this to these events, then, in Diyarbakir, the Attorney General has changed, where will you put him? In Yalova, the Attorney General changed, and the Attorney General changed. What investigation was there?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0121par0138	. The Attorney General has retired, Mr. Secretary, he hasn't changed.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0117par0139	For one thing, there's no prosecutor's investigation. The Attorney General has changed in İzmir, there is no investigation conducted by the Attorney General in İzmir. There is no investigation conducted by the Attorney General in Adana. Another investigation is carried out by prosecutors in Adana. But if you think you're going to get the right result when you connect everything, you're wrong. I'd like to express that in particular. My dear brothers, as Minister of Justice, I did not tell any public prosecutor or public prosecutor to cover up the investigations, to stop the investigations, to shut this down. Whoever claims I said that has to prove it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0122par0141	You implied it, you didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0117par0142	I didn't say that, I said that before in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0122par0143	You implied it, you implied it!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0117par0144	Whoever did this is a son of a bitch, an asshole. But if someone claims that I did it and they don't prove it, they're dishonest, they're bastards. No one should play so easily with people's dignity.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0122par0145	You're implying it, you're implying it!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0117par0146	Investigations, prosecutions, should, of course, be carried out in the form of procedure. Why are there laws? Let's make it a rule when people are being investigated. Why is the investigation classified? Let the evidence be put together, let the facts be found, let the perpetrators be caught, and let the perpetrators be punished for what they deserve, those who are guilty, but on the other hand, one of the main reasons for the investigation is to protect and protect people's law, their dignity, their right to not be tainted. You've opened the investigation, maybe you'll remove the case before further notice, maybe you'll decide that there's no need for a procedure at the beginning, or you've continued, and at the end of the investigation, you'll decide there's no room to prosecute. If their homes are searched in front of TVs, if their superiors are searched, if something is done, even though the investigation is classified, if the documents in the investigation file are published in the papers, the sheets in the newspapers, any one of these prosecutors will blame him, not only in this case, but in other cases, no matter what decision he makes, some of the community will blame him. He's been pressured, he's made this decision, or he's done nothing to accuse, he's sued, he's acquitted, those people will evolve to a different point. For that, we all need to be sensitive about the secrecy of the investigation.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0123par0147	Always have to be, always have been!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0117par0148	The right to remain unstained is very important.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0123par0149	Minister, you always have to be sensitive, in Ergenekon, in Sledgehammer, all the time.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0117par0150	An accusation that I'm not tainted, that he's being declared guilty without a claim against the person, that it violates the right to not be tainted, but the principle of innocence, when the investigation is being conducted, when it's being carried out under the name of an accused...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0123par0151	Not when you're touched, but always, always.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0117par0152	...to avoid damaging that principle. Look, in the past, in this country, for violating the secrecy of the investigation...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0123par0154	Do you remember Turkan Saylan, Türkan Saylan?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0117par0155	...several judicial executions have been carried out before the trial is over.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0123par0156	Do you remember Mr. Türkan Saylan, who had cancer at 4:30?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0117par0157	People were declared prisoners without a suspect, without a suspect.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0124par0158	You did most of it, you did the biggest of those executions.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0123par0159	Do you remember Turkan Saylan?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0125par0160	Mr. Agha, please!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0161	The courts, the prosecutors, whatever they decide...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0127par0162	You called the men "struck."
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0163	There's no way people are gonna get away with this.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0127par0164	You called the men "struck."
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0128par0165	Mr. Turkkan!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0166	Someone may have seen it differently yesterday, and we may have done it, and I've said it in the past.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0129par0167	Do you remember Turkan Saylan, Türkan Saylan?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0168	But look, the political institution needs to fix something, as the investigation changes, the prosecutors...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0129par0169	Minister, do you remember Ilhan Selçuk, Türkan Saylan?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0170	... ifwe continue to bless those who make judgments or take them to the ground, then we'll never be able to keep those who go outside the law within the law.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0129par0172	Investigate, investigate the past!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0173	We can't stop people's dignity from being dishonored.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0129par0174	Investigate those who did it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0175	When you assess the fact that people are in prison for some investigations, you're going to accuse the prosecutors, you're going to say that their evidence is false. You're going to say that there are court orders, you're going to ignore them.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0130par0176	Now you're saying they're fake, you!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0177	...on the other hand, you're going to talk about people as if they're prisoners before the indictment has been filed, before they know what the course of the investigation will be...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0131par0178	You're not bringing the petitions, so bring the petitions.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0179	After that, we're the state of law, we're doing it right. You're going to say, "It's not going to happen."
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0131par0180	Where are the fezlekes, Mr. Secretary? Who did you return the arguments to?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0181	Come on, I'm saying that yesterday, the AK PARTY Group, today CHP, MPP, BDP, no matter what group it is, it's against the law, it's against the law.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0132par0182	Ask about the past!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0183	...infringinging human rights, violating human dignity and dignity...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0132par0184	Ask, I've got your back, ask! Ask me if you mean it!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0185	...whatever kind of practice is, we can't put political competition aside and avoid it unless this Parliament stands up to him. Let's be together!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0132par0186	Ask me if you mean it! Ask today, ask today, we're ready!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0187	Look, about the investigation into the MİT (i.e., which is walking in Adana) -- which is very interesting -- the republic's attorney writes: "Get to the side of Syria, there's this, there's this, do this legal action."
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0133par0188	Did you hear that?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0189	You all know where the prosecutors' authority begins, where it ends!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0134par0190	Do what you have to do, do what you have to do!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0191	There are borders in the district, in the district, in the region, but if the county, the district, does not recognise the borders of the region and instructs them to conduct a direct operation outside Turkey's borders, these instructions are against such law...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0134par0192	Do what you have to, don't complain!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0193	When things happen, when there are complaints -- there are complaints at work, HSYK is looking at -- then we have to get up here and say, "This law...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0134par0194	Tell me a little bit about the euphemisms. And the arguments you returned.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0195	Where do they get it if those who so recklessly violate it don't get it from the law? We have to ask together, we have to criticize.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0135par0196	They take it from you, from you. You fed it, you raised it. Now he's clawing your eyes out.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0197	My dear brothers... I'm sorry I said my brothers and sisters, but everyone here is my brother.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0136par0199	Where are the fezlekes?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0200	Honourable MPs, I'd like to express a few issues concerning the proceedings. The Fezlekes came, and the Minister of Justice kept the proceedings, and examined them; and he took the evidence, and looked; and he prevented the investigation, and the continuation, and this. All of this is wrong, and a great twist, and it is false.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0136par0201	What did you do for 45 days?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0202	Look, the proceedings came to the Ministry of Justice at 3/1/2014.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0136par0203	Yeah, yeah...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0204	The return is 29/1/2014.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0136par0205	Why did you keep me waiting?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0206	Twenty-six days. But everyone says the Minister of Justice kept it for forty-five days.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0136par0207	Yeah, twenty-six days. Why did you keep me waiting?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0208	If I had returned the trial the day it arrived, what would it be called this time? At the speed of Jet, the minister sent it as it came.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0136par0209	What did you wait 26 days for? Yeah, that's not gonna happen. You took the prosecutors, then why did you wait?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0210	What are we gonna do? It's not like we should send him when he gets here, but we should put him on hold for a while.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0137par0211	You won't, you'll bring him here, Mr. Secretary. Bring it here, over here!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0212	There's no way we can make you like anything.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0137par0214	You're not going to send it, you're going to bring it here. Then you'll be brave.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0138par0215	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0216	But what's right here is this: is it proper, is it proper, is it proper, is it legal?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0139par0217	On what grounds did you keep him waiting for 26 days?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0218	We don't have the authority to examine these proceedings, we don't have the authority to enter into them. But there are presentations, as if they've been studied, as if they've been accessed. It's all unreal.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0140par0219	Mr. Secretary, bravery is to bring those arguments here, not to talk there. The fezlekes will come here, then you'll talk.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0220	He's gone without opening his mouth. Because it says that the ministers should be sent to parliament, not to the Ministry, but to the government's policies, with their duties. Don't take the detour, send it faster, send it to Parliament, let them look earlier... Why are they scamming from there?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0141par0222	You should have sent it to the House.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0223	Look, in addition to the case against me, they sent 32 files from Izmir Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, including 32 files related to the ongoing investigation there, 32 folders. Well, what does that have to do with me?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0141par0224	Maybe you're in it, too, if you'd just looked.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0142par0225	Why is the Undersecretary calling?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0126par0226	The part about me is what's written in the article. It has nothing to do with those folders. Suppose the Speaker had presented it to the General Assembly, everything there would have become public. Don't they then, Mr. Attorney General, in front of you in front of the law, in front of you, the rule is that you add so many files that are not related to Bekir Bozdağ, and then you return them to the Ministry of Justice. What law allows you to add the same files and send non-Ministers to Parliament, and what clause allows you to do so? Is that a thing? No. But our silence in the face of these illegalities increases the law. Mr. Bal, I'm out of time, Mr. President, but if you'll excuse me, I'd like to respond. He made an important claim here regarding an article written by the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. The Attorney General is writing an article. When does it say that? On 8/1/2014, he writes exactly as Mr. Bal puts it. Well, why does it say that? When you look at the article carefully, it says: "It's very important that the statement was sent to the police department by your police department on 15/12/2013, because it's very important because during an investigation, the forensic branch has a duty to investigate, if it's doing some work and operations, it connects it to the court when the investigation is over, it puts all the evidence in the attachment, it sends it to the Public Prosecutor's Office. So is the process here. The one before that...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0143par0229	Mr. Secretary, just a moment. Mr. Group, if the vice presidents allow me to give them the same time, I can give Mr. Secretary time.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0144par0231	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0145par0232	Let the minister speak as much as he likes, the defendant's last word!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0143par0233	How many minutes do you want, Mr. Secretary? According to him, I'll give it to the members of the group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0146par0235	İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutors are writing the article, and since it came in on 10/2/2013, do you have any record of this, etc? They're writing there to find out, so it's closed... etcetera, and I've got an explanation from the Istanbul Attorney's office.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0147par0236	Mr. Secretary says it's official. He's saying it's canceled, not learning.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0146par0237	Look, there's a statement from the İstanbul Attorney General's Office, saying that four Republican prosecutors have been appointed to continue the investigation after the investigation of the investigation into the case, which was taken on 25/12/2013 by Cumhuriyet Prosecutor Muammar Akkaş. The state prosecutors of this republic are making correspondence about the investigation document. There is no document and file found in the service of the Bureau's office regarding the document of İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office 2012/256 in the case of these correspondence. Any information written by the prosecutor's office is answered, and we do not have any information, which is still written in this article by Muammar Akkas on 17/12/2013 concerning the destruction of the disinterested documents of this investigation and the removal of all of its documents. When does he learn this writing? Taa learns on the 24th, after the answer comes, the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thus, the writing date is a date that was once very, very long before this was learned. The answer from there is no other information, no document, and since there is a trial, there is no other document to be found. From then on, if there is no new wiretap after the trial, the ongoing procedures are illegal. I think you know this as well as we do, and I think you do, and the evidence obtained under investigation has been sent to the upper text. The same thing is going on, and it is said that there is no evidence left in this file. As of 15/12/2013, all the evidence in the file, which is dated to Fezleke and obtained by all investigative documents until then, has been preserved, and no legal evidence that is present in the file as of today has been destroyed in any way, by any person or authority. Therefore, no destruction has been carried out by the prosecutors of the republic, who are still investigating. The explanation is here, there's nothing destroyed.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0148par0242	When was it announced, Mr. Secretary? When's the release date, today?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0146par0243	It has nothing to do with the recent proposal of the law, which the Parliament has adopted, which lifts the TMK 10, and includes some other regulations, because it has not yet been approved by the President, and it has not yet been implemented. And it is not within the law that there is any provision for it, even though it be a matter already established, to nullify it, to make it meaningless, to ignore it. You know that as well as we do. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as a result, none of the issues involved in this genome have anything to do with the truth, anything at all. Some of the stories in the papers are similar to a dream phrase made out of a series of evaluations that don't actually have linings. I know that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey always acts on facts, not dreams. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0149par0247	Thank you. I'll give every group five minutes.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0150par0249	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0149par0250	Are you going to drive, Mr. Honey? Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0150par0252	And, Mr. President, in my statement, Mr. Secretary, I'm not sure what I'm saying is a lie, a false dream phrase,
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0149par0253	Okay, I'll give you two minutes for bullying. Besides, are you going to be the one to talk about the band?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0150par0255	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0149par0256	I'll give you seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0150par0260	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would very much like to believe the speeches the Minister of Justice has made here. I'd like some information that's been sent to the press to prove the documents wrong or convince us that they're wrong. However, the Minister of Justice has defended the seriousness of the motion for a geneorization on him, but not to the extent that he understands the consequences. In the dream of the motion of the young man, he declared that the lie is false, that he has disgraced us, that he has made himself worthy of himself. Let's see who's got the credit. The name of this motion is obvious. The shoeboxes that appeared on December 17th were used as a Department of Justice tool for clearing suspects, making millions of euros, scattered around in cash boxes, by the hand of the judge, to be flattened and flattened by the judiciary. This was given to determine. I know it, Turkey knows it, Turkish people know it. The Minister of Justice didn't understand. I wish he'd understand. As a result, this motion was given to prove how an Iranian person called Zarrab received four ministers of the government. Four ministers, four ministers, with millions of dollars to prove how he bought his children. I'd expect a Minister of Justice to understand that. This motion was made to demonstrate that a person who co-operates with international terrorism under the name Al Qaedi and employs the Prime Minister's children and establishes companies in Turkey within the framework of keeping a job, with the help of the Prime Minister, with the help of the Prime Minister, and with the support of the AKP government. I expected the Minister of Justice to see this, to understand that as a lawyer. I expected a judge to walk on him as a man who truly understood that he was sitting in the cover of a prophet, but he tried to defend himself. As he defended himself, he entered a weak, simple defense with information such as the dream, theft, and false error. What we're really waiting for in his defense is that I made a phone call to the Izmir Attorney General. We don't know what he's talking about. I phoned the Attorney General of Adana. He says. We don't know what he's talking about. If he's going to tell the truth and not the dream, then why isn't he coming here? The Speaker returned it. Suppose the Speaker -- what he said may be true -- there's classified information in there, so just get rid of it and send it. Here's the account the Minister of Justice has to give: you've changed the state's attorney. Where? He's got a name, a court that's not his own, a court of law. You've replaced a trusted man, and he's the one who's got the argument, he's six, he's not coming back. The Adana Attorney General may be correct, but he was sent back to court by the Speaker of Parliament. Why isn't he coming back? Because you changed the attorney general's office because you want to make your own judgment because that's what the AKP has given the Ministry of Justice, that's what the vision is. Bend the judgment, bend the corruption, close the millions of dollars, photos of euros, images, deeds, and corruption. How do you turn it off? But by bending, bending, politicizing such judgment. 1. We said it was against the Constitution, the law, and the regulations, concerning the agency. 1st since 2010. Why didn't the agency have a change of members, but on the day you went to the head of the HSYK and held a meeting, this change of membership took place? Think about it, pay for it. Why were prosecutors removed from office on the second day, January 16th, when the membership structure changed? Yes, that's right, the third 97 judge's ruling is an alibi. Why are you assigning those involved in the corruption operation, the prosecutors in charge, without his defenses, without a disciplinary investigation, to answer for it? Judgeship of the third 166 may be justified, it may be true, but why were there judges, prosecutors, investigating the corruption operation, account for it. I wouldn't have told you this if it wasn't for Mr. Secretary, it's a matter of honor and honor. If it's a matter of honor and honor, save the Minister's honor and honor. Not from our point of view. Mr. Secretary says: "These are slanders, this is a matter of honor." If it is slander, the way is in certain legal order, the parliamentary democratic order. Let these proceedings come, and vote yes, and let the Minister together, if what he says is true, and if what he says is wrong, let him answer here and here.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0151par0267	He's bound to prove his claim, and you're claiming it!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0152par0268	You've already made your decision since December 17th!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0150par0269	Mr. Secretary, if this is a matter of honor, I refer the Minister's statement to the conscience of the worthy MPs of the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0153par0270	We too will fabricate lies and you will answer them.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0150par0271	I believe they'll take good care of his request. And if, in the past process, it is clear again that the gene question of Mr. Minister of Justice, who created the most severe crisis in the history of the Republic, created the most serious issues in the field of justice, bending the judiciary, bending the judiciary, not only politicizing, against the Constitution, against the democratic parliamentary system, against judges' independence, non-biasity and judicial guarantees, and if it is to be cleared in this way, clear again, your fingers are almost; there is no, if doubts about it, if it means anything to you, then do it with respect, I salute all of you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0154par0274	Yes, thank you. Talks on whether or not the motion to ask for a motion to be filed against Minister of Justice, Bekir Bozdağ...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0155par0276	Mr. President, we wanted words in groups.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0156par0277	Mr. President, one moment, you promised, sir.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0154par0278	You didn't raise your hand, Mr...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0155par0279	Mr. President, we pointed, you didn't see it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0154par0280	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0157par0281	Mr. Suheyl Batum.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0154par0282	Here you are, Mr. Batum, for bullying.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0158par0283	It's not teasing, it's not five minutes. We'll take a separate word for sarcasm, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0159par0285	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, now, the Minister, have just spoken of dream phrases here, dreaming. Of course it's bad to dream, in this serious House, under the roof of the High Assembly, to tell your dreams. But, like Alice in Wonderland, my Prime Minister is giving instructions, and my friends are ignoring how I'm following them, thinking they're closing their eyes, and I think I'm getting credit for it, and it's much worse to say it here, much worse, much worse. What they're saying here is that ignoring what's being done here -- no minister of the world -- no matter how much, the majority of it is mine, and my friends are not from there -- is not going to give Bekir Bozdağ any credit anywhere in the world, as it would not have done anywhere in the world. We know that for sure. On the contrary, he will, unfortunately, file the sense of confidence and dignity that justice ministers need to gain, that they need to have. Dear friends, after December 17th, the bombing of the law began. The minister replied: "I don't care what the Home Secretary does. He said, "What did I have to do with them?" We didn't build on him, we didn't tell him, we didn't tell him about the Home Secretary. On top of what the Minister has done, we've moved our conversations about his gene. What you're doing in a row is the Internet law, the HSYK law, the covering up corruption, the law to hide evidence, the minister's children, the minister's minister, the Reza Zarrabs, the Bilal boys' rescue law, right? He said: "We have made a very good law, and it is in accordance with the Constitution. " Now, everyone, everyone, is on the commission... dear friends, you know, every one who comes in, even the Vice President of the HSYK, said this law is against the Constitution. What did you do on the commission? You didn't call the HSYK representatives. You said it was enough to represent the minister. The minister sat there. Yes, yes, I'm here, there's no need for anyone but HSYK. But in 2010, you said that the minister of HSYK was now a protocolist. He has no authority. He's the only one in the show, you said he was the president as a protocolist. When discussing an important law such as this HSYK, you saw that the minister said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We asked the minister: Why did you call? Why did you call the prosecutors? Why did you call in such an important criminal investigation?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0160par0290	He's given his answer.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0159par0291	He did. He thinks it will bring dignity, dear Ramadan, dignity. He says: I called, I called. But I said, "Be nice to the law, be nice to them, don't detain them, don't take them into custody." That's why we're telling you now: Mr. Minister, were you a politician of Uganda? Were you a politician for Papua New Guinea? Ever since 2007, you have sat there with your mouth shut as people's dignity, consciences, and children have been imprisoned for seven years. Now, friends, let's leave it at that, gentlemen, I didn't expect anything from Mr. President but Mr. Secretary. He thinks he's getting credit. He has already looked that way, saying, "These will give me dignity."
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0161par0294	Come on, Hodja!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0159par0295	But seriously, 2007, 2008, 2009, those people who are sleeping with the same evidence, the same, even worse, false evidence, they're not going to leave any of you alone. They won't go to him because there's no one to go to him anyway, but they'll be waiting for you for seven years. I don't think you'll ever tell them: I don't know, our minister told us that it was democraticism, that's what we understood. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our Prime Minister won't either. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0162par0300	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0163par0301	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0162par0302	Just a moment, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Kaplan, please, I'll give you five minutes for bullying...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0163par0304	No, no, sir, I'll give you the certificate, I'll talk to him.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0162par0305	We don't have that kind of procedure, the group's vice presidents... Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0163par0307	Now, sir, it's not polite. What did the Minister say? I'll show you the document, the report, the official report.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0162par0308	I'll give you your time again, Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0164par0310	Mr. President, we're meeting with the esteemed lawmakers, one more question. I'm sorry, we won't be there for you, we won't be there for you, we won't be there for you, we won't be there for you. Why?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0165par0311	We'd be surprised.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0164par0312	The reason is obvious, my friends. We came to this Parliament in 2007. You're talking about fezlekes, aren't you? We've had 945 trials, 945 to the Peace and Democracy Party. Do you know what this is all about? Freedom of expression, for speaking in our own language, for disobeying the letters of the alphabet, even because we have forbidden literature in these proceedings, for we have committed propaganda crimes. But there must have been 20 more today; there must have been 121 of the CHP, 90 of the AK PARTY, 26 of the MHP. Now, you come to the three parties, and I'm going to talk about the proceedings, and see what's going on with the statements that have come to you: fraud, tampering with the tender, misappropriation, misappropriation of checks, sexual harassment, profit for the job he's not authorized, embezzlement, counterfeiting, fraud in the official document, corruption of money, opposition to the law on laundering, violating the integrity of the investigation, affecting the person who does the work of the investigation, importing, and leaving GDP products in the environment, and the Anti-Trafficking Act. Now, as the owner of 945, we're able to speak here with our heads held high, with our eyes wide open, so we can speak so clearly; that's the difference between us and the Peace and Democracy Party. We don't shed tears behind the judges of private authorities' courts, I believe, who have arrested and imprisoned so many politicians for so long -- three, 20, at most -- who have been taken -- and we don't shed tears, we don't shed tears!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0166par0315	We never spill!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0164par0316	It's not done, it's done, it's done, justice gone, it's not justice, you'll understand justice well. Guys, look, there's legislation in Turkey, it doesn't work, it doesn't work. If we had four groups, we wouldn't have had 945. There's judgment, there's no judgment, there's no judgment. Justice will not come to this country as long as you stand behind the Anti-Terror Law, as long as you call it security, integrity, and integrity. Write this down. There's an executive; it's working well, it's running well, folks. Mind you, a lot of things happen to you when you're walking, in law enforcement. So we won't be here, we won't be there. How did we say in the referendum, we'll use our abstentions? When the time comes, there may be things we can give you when necessary. We know very well here that the secret investigations, the wiretaps, the secret witnesses, the trial based on them, the thousands of Kurdish politicians who are not moving while they're inside, but in you, very conscientious, I welcome those who follow these cases, and those who go to prisons. They're doing an honorable job, I'm taking their place with it, how important people stand politically, or else people and false witnesses will have new faces, just like in the film "Silici". So, we're going to stand right, as we stand upright in these proceedings. Our petitions are our honor, friends, and let those who are ashamed of their arguments be ashamed, and let them do so, and justice is needed for all of us. I salute you all with these feelings. We've wasted some time, we've been arguing, arguing, we're gonna run out of genes. The numerical majority is clear here, but I hope we can do a little better in the other democratic package. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0167par0322	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0168par0323	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0167par0324	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0168par0325	Sir, Mr. Mahmoud Tanal has just requested a statement from Article 69.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0169par0326	They should have given it to their speaker, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0168par0327	The reason for his discovery, Mr. Secretary, is that he has a document that says that I'm interfering with the court...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0170par0328	It's very clear that I didn't interfere with the judiciary, I didn't say cover the investigations, I didn't say stop the investigation, I didn't say close the investigation, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0171par0329	I didn't meet with the prosecutors, and he said it was a bastard who didn't prove it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0172par0330	Mr. President, it's our turn to speak as a group, so if you'll excuse us, we'll have our talk.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0173par0331	All right, I'll finish my sentence, and then our friend can talk.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0174par0332	Mr. Ünal, I promised the other speakers that because of the Minister's speech, the 99th article of the Constitution is clear, sir.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0172par0333	Oh, won't you promise us, Mr. President? Mr. President, aren't you going to promise our group five minutes?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0174par0334	Yes, I promise Mr. Tanal. From your position, Mr. Tanal, from your position, sir. That is, if you agree, because the 69th article is open.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0172par0335	Mr. President, I don't understand. I apologize.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0175par0336	You gave it to the MPP from the stand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0172par0337	Mr. President, I don't understand if you've stated that you won't promise our group.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0176par0338	The Hasip Kaplan spoke for you!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0177par0341	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary said: "If anyone doesn't show the document, it's a bastard." Look, Mr. Secretary, what's yours, what's yours, what's the Undersecretary's? This is your Undersecretary, aren't you his handler? Aren't you responsible for all the actions and procedures of the undersecretary, as the chief of the law? As a result, if an undersecretary of the Constitution is seeking the Attorney General of the Republic of İzmir on your behalf under Article 138, then who would be here, the bastard, dishonest, and dishonest, if the Izmir Public Prosecutor puts it in the official report? (CHEERING) You have to answer that. Here, silence comes from deed. If that undersecretary of yours committed this crime, if you're still holding him in that position, if he's not being done about it, what do we call it? This is what we call "criminal participation." So, my plea to you is, if you want to get rid of this crime, if you want to get rid of its criminal convictions, you need to get him out of that position immediately, as the chief of the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0178par0347	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0179par0348	Mr. Secretary, don't laugh, you'll have days to cry! Is that supposed to be funny? How do you laugh? At least it's a girl, at least it's a girl! You're the Minister there!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0178par0349	Mr. Hawk, please, I promise you five minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0180par0352	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. Of course, in a very important matter, I'd like to express that the level has gone down to this point in a meeting with the client, as the AK PARTY Group, I assure you, with great surprise and surprise.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0181par0354	Look at the level!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0182par0355	You've taken it to such a level...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0183par0356	Mr. Idris, look who's lowering the level!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0184par0357	Is it a lack of clearance to show documents?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0185par0358	But I also think it's helpful for you to know and remind us that when we stand here on the stand, on behalf of both our Minister and the AK PARTY Group, we will only talk about and respond to the alleged issues, and yet you still don't understand what our friends here have done at the AK PARTI point of democratisation for a year? Unfortunately, we feel sorry for our efforts, but don't understand as much as you want the AK PARTY to do in the name of democratization, this saint nation understands very well...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0186par0359	You brought fascism, what else?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0185par0360	...and it's very clear in the squares.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0187par0361	But you did something to the totalitarian regime, you didn't do anything for democracy because you don't believe in democracy!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0185par0362	Now, about all this December 17th stuff. In the interest of a completely independent and impartial judiciary, I'm afraid, here on the stand...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0188par0363	The whole world knows about you, the whole world!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0189par0364	Every law you bring in is the law of forgiveness.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0185par0365	...in order to make a statement, especially in the scope of our Minister of Justice's legal authority, you have described the negotiations as an intervention in the judiciary.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0190par0366	Shame on you, Mr. Idris. You know those tapes about the minister's speeches?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0185par0367	Again, I have to express in particular that many have been convicted, and you haven't seen them, with the same evidence as the wiretaps that were made here in 2007. Oh, that's what you're doing now with the same evidence. The phrase at the point...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0191par0368	Don't argue, don't argue.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0185par0369	It's a total law freak, and it's about not sticking to the principles of the law and the law.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0192par0370	The blood of Ali Tatar is not dry in your hand, it is blood! You still have blood on your hands. You have the blood of Ali Tatar. You have the blood of Türkan Saylan. You have the blood of Ilhan Selçuk.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0185par0371	Now, we were always talking about the rule of law that day, and we were talking about the full independent and neutral judgment, and we're saying the same thing today. We all need this law, we all need the causality of innocence, and as a result, we have stated that we will respect it until the end if the independent judge of the alleged criminal types decides to condemn someone.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0193par0372	Independent judgment, independent judgment...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0185par0373	And if you have any doubts about the independence and neutrality of the same courts, then you have no right to speak of the principles of the state of law.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0194par0374	Tell me about the ships, the ships.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0185par0375	I say to you, if you're making an analogy of what you went through in 2007 today, that's what we're saying to you, because on that day, we're saying that innocent people need to be protected, and we're saying the same thing today.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0195par0376	Is that why you were using it in the polls?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0185par0377	Again, regarding your allegations that the prosecutors have been called and the investigation has been transferred to some places: All prosecutors are members of the Attorney General's office, they are within the norms of the law. And I just said, there's a political figure in this, and he's the Minister of Justice. If the HSYK isn't functioning properly, Parliament is the key to solving it. If judges and prosecutors have lost their independence and their neutrality, it is still the duty of Parliament to take measures against them, but you have given up hope of the nation, the nation of the people's will...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0196par0378	People, do not cover your will for theft!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0185par0379	...you're trying to explain to our nation here that you're missing some information that you've lost hope in Parliament based solely on false information from the Internet, and that you've got to be discreet, that violates the secrecy of the investigation, but this nation never, ever compromises you, it knows what your face is, what your real face is.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0197par0380	Let the philosophers come, and let us know the truth!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0185par0381	Those who give up on the nation know exactly where they seek rights.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0197par0382	Let the fezlekes be read, let everyone know!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0185par0383	Mr. Secretary, make yourself perfectly comfortable. (CHP rows) This nation and this group know that your actions are within the law, that they are within the framework of the law, and that you act in a way that suits this nation. [Cheers and applause from HHP rows [!]
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0198par0384	Oh, my God, he's declaring his loyalty!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0185par0385	You didn't answer those who teased you here, that's your maturity. I assure you, there's no need to answer to the teasers here. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0199par0388	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have a request...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0200par0390	I give up.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit02spe0199par0391	Okay. Talks have been concluded on whether or not the motion to ask about Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ will be brought up. [[Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, ……]] Now, I'm going to submit to your votes on whether or not the motion of the gene will be brought up: those who have agreed to the motion of the gene... those who have refused to accept it... the motion of the gene is not accepted. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit03spe0199par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy, who is ranked in the 3rd place in the 3rd place of the Law on the Development of Basic Rights and Hurriyets, and Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy, who is in charge of Changes in the Law of Political Parties; 2820 MP Gürkut Aksoy, Antalya MP Gürkut Acar Τ; Republican People's Party Group Chairs Muharrem İnce and İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi.; Barring the Law on the Law of Political Parties; Diyarbakır MP Tanitan Tanitan Tanı; 2820th Amendment Proposal on the Law of Political Partitions; 22820th Amendments on the Constitutional Party Party's Constitutional Party's Constitutional Party's Constitutional Party (Pubjudication Party Party Party Party Party Party Party Party); Mustafatür İl and İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçeş, İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 559 rows. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, this bill will be considered as the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, after negotiations on the entire bill have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit03spe0201par0018	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit03spe0199par0019	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit03spe0201par0022	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 11th anniversary of March 1, 2003, when Turkey was not approved by the Grand National Assembly. Therefore, I would like to express my views on this matter to the General Assembly very briefly. At that time, the government brought a statement aimed at sending both Turkish Armed Forces to foreign countries and the presence of foreign armed forces in Turkey and sending them to another country via Turkey to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey's Grand National Assembly rejected this thesis because it did not find enough votes during its historic session at that time. The only majority was denied this dissertation. The Parliament of that day was composed of groups of Justice and Development Party and Republican People's Party, and the two groups passed a historical test by the Republic's Parliament, which was rejected by our friends who adopted the same opinion as the Republican People's Party, along with the Republican People's Party's Party of Justice and Development. I honor the members of Parliament from here, and I pay my respects to our president of the day, Mr. Deniz Baykal. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit03spe0202par0028	Yes, thank you. Beşir Atalay, Deputy Prime Minister, who wants word on the entire proposal on behalf of the government. Here you go, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit03spe0203par0035	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first I salute you all. After a long period of work, hopefully today, after the adoption of the bill for the democraticisation package, our friends in Parliament will go to the polls. May the elections be good for our country. That's the beauty of democracy, and I, to be honest, am pleased that our Parliament has taken on a work in democratization as its final bill before going to the election. It's an important plan for our country, in fact, to increase freedoms. In short, I'd like to give you some information from this bill that we bring to you, which we bring to you as a government. As it is known -- it has been expressed in previous talks -- in this eleven years, in fact, there have been major reforms in Turkey for civilisation, normalisation, and this Parliament has done all of that. The national will, the chest, any attack on democracy, any risk, national will, the chest and democracy were opposed. People have put a trust on us. So we took Turkey to these levels to give its dues, with courage, determination, steadfastness, not being deceived, and not cheating to fulfill the need for this trust, and really Turkey achieved great gains in terms of democratisation in these eleven years, in terms of civilisation, normalisation. In particular, a large number of reform packages, expanding basic rights and freedoms, facilitating the daily lives of our citizens, strengthening mutual trust in the community, were carried out during that time. These reforms, which have been carried out by consideration of all parts of society, have also earned the right to be described as the silent revolution, as the vast political spectrum, and its profound effects. So I'm going to put it here, and we've done this in a book. I express it to all of our MPs. What date, what reform was made in this 11 years, is an inventory of this. In the last 11 years, along with the silent revolution in law and democracy, there has been no longer a high-profile, bossy, ceberut, arrogant state and politics. There is a state in Turkey today that exists with its people, its citizens, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its people, its citizens, its legitimacy, is now just the nation, and its custody office is out of the question. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers aim to offer more democracy and freedom to all parts of the community within the last 11 years of the government's political decisions, which have been shared by our Prime Minister in public on September 30, 2013, which have become richer and richer by the following arrangements, as well as to the expansion of financial, economic, social, cultural policies, basic rights and freedoms, the human-focused security approach and the paradigm change of terrorism. This package has been properly studied -- about four months -- and has been discussed with many segments. Later, after arriving at Parliament, our Constitutional Commission conducted efficient work on it, transferred it to the subcommittee, matured the subcommittee, and, in fact, there were multilevel assessments in the Constitutional Commission. The main goal in drafting the bill today is to strengthen human rights and solidify the foundations of democracy, and given the lack of prejudice, it will be seen clearly that this package removes the sediment of decades, provides solutions to the problems of decades, strengthens our brotherhood even more. The scope of the democraticisation package includes the package, which has been victimized for different reasons so far, responding to the needs of different communities, and is meaningful and functional in terms of resolving the victims. The package is the most comprehensive work ever done at one time, given the number of topics it brings to order, the content, the broader parts it addresses. The problems involved in the package are the issues that have been and talked about throughout our republic's history, mostly for the last 30 years. This package is a package of rights and freedoms 11 years ago that can't be imagined, that can't be built, that can't even be pronounced. The package also responds to a series of current social students, such as education in different languages and dialects, enlargement of political rights, strengthening meeting and demonstration march rights, regulation of hate and discrimination crimes, guaranteeing respect for the lifestyle. And the basis of the package of democratization, its references, I'd like to offer them briefly. As with all our reforms, our reform package is our reference point first, people. As the package of democratisation was prepared, all arguments, opinions, proposals, recommendations were taken into consideration, solutions were shaped accordingly. The package is based on a range of reference texts that are much wider than any other package released in the past period. We can list them as follows: our EC PARTI Programme, our 2023 Vision Document, our 61st Government Programme, some of the issues expressed in the European Union's progress reports on the seven separate commissions in the process of resolving our legislation and the implementation of our judicial and administrative authorities into a single report; the proposals of the European Court of Human Rights, which our country acknowledges the binding of judicial authority and decisions; and the provisions of our country's state for the development and the development of human rights in the national and international community; and the reform of our country's democratic society for the development and the development of our country's accession. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this package of democraticization was made up of three elements: first, if you remember when administrative savings were announced. We've arranged these matters under the authority of our government after we've announced the package. What were these, if I may remind you again: 1) The removal of vows in schools. 2) The freedom of clothing at public institutions. 3) It was a return of land in Purple Gabriel, related to our Suryanian citizens. We've done them with administrative savings, regulations. The second part is separate laws. These separate laws -- I've stated somewhere before, in the commission -- are the law on the protection of personal data, the law on anti-discrimination -- we're building the anti-discrimination board -- and the law on law enforcement. These three will come as independent laws. So, what's in this package? In this package, we're predicting some changes -- in a sense, the third part of this package -- especially on the basis of the Penal Code, which is weighted by the Election Law, are key to the Law of Political Parties. Here, in fact, when we group up, we can divide today's package into four major groups: the first group is the provisions that make it easier to do politics. So we have a policy-supporting, a little bit wider political. What are these? In both local and general elections, all kinds of propaganda can be done in Turkish as well as in different languages and dialects. Political parties can implement the co-chair system on the condition of taking part in their charter and not more than two. Political parties are being forced to establish an organization in a district. For political parties, the number of votes needed in parliamentary general elections to be supported by the state has been reduced from 7 per cent to 3 per cent. That's group one. Actually, you know, there was a very controversial election dam here. At the election dam, we presented three alternatives in this package. So let our other parties consider it, whichever one is agreed on, we will join all three. First, the reduction of the electoral dam to 5% and the narrowed regional system, the reset of the election dam and the narrow region system, and also the 10% system that we're implementing now. In fact, this has not been discussed, it hasn't been handled, and since our political parties haven't received much response on this issue, of course, this package does not include the issue of the dam. But he's on our agenda. Whenever this is agreed upon, we desire to make it walk again. The other group is where the meeting and demonstration march rights will be used, and the meeting and demonstration march hours and the removal of the government's commissionership in meetings and demonstrations. The practice in placing places here is that the governors in the provinces, the governors in the counties, set up rally sites, and those who will hold meetings or meetings and demonstrations prefer one of those squares. For example, Ankara has appointed governorship in Tandoğan Square or Medical Square rally sites. Now, we're bringing in a new substance. In one district, the district will determine these areas, while the governorship, the governorship will also receive the opinion of the unions of the political parties there, the mayors of the district, the representatives of the trade organisations. It'll be decided in consultation with them, and then they'll have a meeting and a demonstration march, or they'll use those areas, and they'll have chosen one of them. Meeting hours, especially meetings and walks in open places, will be disbanded before sundown, and those indoors will be -23. 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, It's extended to 100. Also, the government commissioner's application is being lifted. It's what NGOs want, causing complications. So they also desire that those who organize the meeting take responsibility. You know, each meeting is organised by an organization group, a committee, and they'll decide on all matters related to the meeting. The following are some articles in the penal code... sorry, not the penal code. The opening of private schools to teach in different languages and dialects is under the Special Teaching Institutions Act. You know, it was a very controversial subject. We have studied world examples, and this is the first time in our country that private schools are being opened in native languages, in different dialects. Also, preventing the use of education and teaching rights, preventing public services, preventing individual meetings, crimes aggravated in the Criminal Code, and interfering with preferences related to lifestyles are still a subject of aggravated punishment. In a sense, both the freedom of thought and its way of life are comforting, comforting. For the first time, we bring up an important concept of the penal code, a concept called hate crimes. It's a phrase that's often mentioned internationally, and that's where we bring it. In some cases, punishments for hate crimes are getting worse. The other thing is about changing the name of the village and the location. There is a clause in the City Administration Act, which was established in 49, in order to change the names of places that were not in Turkish. The public has been given a job, and a lot of places have been renamed, about 12,000 places. We're going to remove that material now. Again, in changing the name of the villages and so on, of course, there will be a referendum on the people in that village, and after they've decided, the name changes with the Minister of the Interior's approval. You know, there's a law required in the provinces and counties. The removal of interference on all sorts of issues such as fitness, zakat, victim's skin... will save the citizens the way they want. That was one of the important issues of discussion. Besides, there's a law on the Admission of Turkish Letters and Tatbiki, you know, they're in the status of the law. And then there's the law on hat property. We're not touching these two laws, but we're removing Article 222 about their involvement in the penal code. So, these laws stop, but they don't have a place in practice -- they don't have a place in practice. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, of course, this law has a feature and a dimension to the solution process, so it's connected to the solution process, and that's what it's about. As it is known, for a stronger, democratic, free and peaceful Turkey as a continuation of the decisive democratic progresses from 2002, a process called a solution process is now under way and the final goal of the solution process is the complete end of terrorism. In our country, getting the gun out of the way is the process of taking the word, thought, politics into action. The solution process continues with great precision, with great care, as a process of repairing wounded emotions, building mutual trust and praising brotherhood's law, and is now widely approved by our nation. In particular, the East, the Southeast region, they've been living through this process of normalization that they've been missing for decades, and in fact, our citizens, our nation, have great support, and our government has a great commitment. At the point where we're here today, criticisms are being voiced that the solution process is blocked, locked. We are aware, but I would like to state to the great Parliament that when you look at countries with similar problems, such processes seem to be up and down, and they don't go straight in any way. Therefore, speeds and slowdowns in the process must be expected. It's important not to despair by looking at them, not to be alarmed, so our sincerity and determination continue here. It must not be forgotten that, of course, it's not a matter of momentary resolving the terror problem that's been going on for nearly half a century; it requires patience, time and effort. And right now, the determination to conduct the solution process is complete. I'd like to rephrase that in the High Council. In fact, from another perspective, this solution will be one of the key indicators of the ability to solve politics, meaning that the weapon is not the problem solver of violence, but the problem solver of politics is in effect, and that is our goal. So, I'm sure, when the solution process reaches its goals, the political institution will be stronger in our country, and then the problems will be discussed within the political institution. In fact, I would also like to express this package: I mean, we've always wanted and determined to do our best in this process to get more support from the opposition. As a result, I've briefly presented you with this package and its importance. In fact, it is really important for all of our parties to go to the elections with such an arrangement that will give our citizens hope, open wider spaces, open spaces of freedom. I thank both the commissions, the Constitutional Commission, Mr. President, and the subcommittee very much -- it's mature there -- and I thank all of our parties for their contributions. I salute you all with the deepest love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit03spe0204par0071	Thank you. Faruk Bal has been asked to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on top of the proposal.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit03spe0205par0074	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we've just heard from the Minister. What I really want to talk about is that if the expansion of these democratization, fundamental rights and freedoms, the deepening and expanding of our citizens' rights and freedoms, of course we would support that within the framework of the democratic vision and the principle of freedom that the Nationalist Movement Party has. However, we see that the Justice and Development Party has been focusing on two serious problems that have arisen in recent months. One of them is corruption. The second is that the country's pattern within the framework of state and national integrity is to pursue a plan that we call the Great Middle East Project, which is under the scope of an ongoing and controversial country that begins in Oslo, which is under the supervision of an Imranian country, and to come before the High Assembly with the ground-level laws. It's the poverty, poverty, weirdness, and the problems of the guru, unemployment, hot money, current risks that should be discussed in this Parliament during the 11-year period of AKP government. While the measures related to economic collapse, crisis and the recent drought should be discussed, unfortunately, he focused on these two issues, and the agenda of the House in the last few months, first of all, the law on shutting down corruption, the regulation of the criminal police involved in these matters is contrary to the Constitution. In fact, I would argue that the amendment of the Constitution to the Law of the Judiciary Police and the Constitution, the actual suspension of the Constitution, the tampering with the genes of the democratic parliamentary system, and the enforcement body of the executive body, have been brought to justice. By evading the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors and the Justice Academy, the law on making the Minister's most powerful person, the most competent person there, and thus bringing the AKP's hat to the head of the judiciary has been concluded. With the Internet law... close to 100-200/a of the previously published press -- according to the number given by the Society of Journalists -- the dismissal of the columnist, his reporter; the restrictions of our citizens in the visual media, the restrictions of our citizens in the online media, the restrictions of their voices, the laws of the National Party's law on freedom; an understanding that can't tolerate two sentences in the subtitles of a television, the control of a strict understanding of a vertical understanding, and the adoption of the written and visual media, all of which have been revealed after the control of this, in the Internet, in order that our citizens' responses online media may be limited, to limiting their voices; the laws of the law of the Internet, which have been established undercuted by the laws of the law, the laws of the law of the law, the law of the law, and the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law, and the law of the law of the law of the law, and the law has been removed, and all of the law of the law, all of the law, and all of the law and the law has been taken over the law, and the law, and the law, and the laws of the law of the law, and the law of the law, and the law of the law, and the law has been written and the law. Were those national wills? No, it's not. This is AKP's will because in order to become a national will, it had to be done by a national agreement, by a social agreement. Since the other three parties had no agreement, they came before us as laws of AKP's will. We've come to what we call the waste project, the development of this project, which is what the Minister was very taken for, but it's fundamentally true. This bill shows its marks here, just as it did in the laws of destruction. The first clue, Mr. Minister, stated, is part of the solution project. He said, "This is part of the solution project." He talked about the resources he was taking advantage of, he talked about the opinions he was taking advantage of. He has taken no advantage of any of the views of the National Movement Party. The National Movement Party had nothing to do with this bill. The Secretary of the Constitution has responded to our speech in a harsh manner, without understanding us, without understanding the values we want to protect, without comprehending them, without trying to draw conclusions from him, in a impulsive manner, and if so, that's what the contribution is. As a matter of fact, this law, the valued lawmakers, who started in Oslo, who continued in Imralı, who turned lawmakers into postmans and passed them between Imralı and Kandil...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit03spe0206par0080	We're proud to be the postman of peace, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit03spe0205par0081	... istheproposal to be made a law. It's all about the BOP project. The BOP project is a project to destabilise Turkey in three ways, with 23 countries, to organise Middle East, rich natural wealth in the Middle East, the gas and oil, the transit routes of energy lines, and the resources contained in them. In these three ways, either the borders of these 23 countries will be changed or their political governance will be changed. We're co-chairs of this project, Mr. Prime Minister. Then, when a different situation arose, at least 8 or 10 times, the spouse who had been identified by his appearance denied the position of president, and I have no such statement. Whoever's saying it is lying. He said it. The Prime Minister's arrivals didn't stop here either, so he announced the project -- we think it's destruction -- as well. When he saw the people's reaction to the Habur images, his body remained the same, changing his name, saying it was a package of democratization. When the response to the democratic package reached the nation's infinitive dimension, this time, you are disrupting the national unity and brotherhood of the National Movement Party. It's a project that destroys national unity and brotherhood root, divides, alters, and destroys the laws of brotherhood over a thousand years. My dear friends, within this scope, we have been presented to the Constitutional Compromise Commission on democratisation, expanding fundamental rights and freedoms, and with other parties contributing largely, it has become a visionary view for Turkey, but what I want to say here is that the nation will break the integrity of the brotherhood that we have created in a thousand years, and the nation will have an understanding that will promote conflict between them by reducing their sons to one another. Mr. Prime Minister thought about it in time, and he said that when he took a wheel out of the expansion project: we don't have a thing called the Kurdish issue, Turkey has a terrorism issue, and we're going to fight terrorism to the end. Like all of our citizens, our Kurdish brothers are equal, first - class citizens. He spoke as if he were the spokesman for the National Movement Party. However, whatever happened, after that, they recycled this expansion project into the minds of the wise men and then brought it to the presence of the House. My dear friends, what I want to express here is that the Prime Minister doesn't have a question of Kurd. I want to go back to his statement: We -- they say it's a thousand years old, but I say it's more than a thousand years old -- we cried together for a thousand years, we laughed together. For a thousand years, we shared hunger, we shared food. For a thousand years, we believed in the same God, shared the same fate. For a thousand years, we tried to act in harmony with the same prophet. For a thousand years, we've raised and fed our children with these values. For a thousand years, our family law has evolved accordingly. Over the course of a thousand years, our neighbourly law has evolved according to this, our understanding of social tolerance has evolved accordingly. For a thousand years, I am a Kurd. Two of our people have become related to 1 Turk. Since our culture developed with this and formed within the scope of tolerance, since there was no dissolution, I am every Turk. One of the three people who expressed themselves became related to one Kurdish person. This has been our social life for a thousand years; we have the same table, the same food cooked at the table. For a thousand years, our women had the same hand braids, same vote, same carpet, same rug. It's become our daughters' braids for a thousand years. This is the concrete fact of a thousand years of brotherhood law. This is the property of a thousand years of brotherhood law. For a thousand years, we fought on the same front, and for a thousand years, we experienced the pain, the distress, the sadness of being defeated on the same front. Now, when it is said that for a thousand years, the figures must be included. 85 percent of the people we've been with for a thousand years say I'm Turkish. On what? Not my statement, according to the figures of the American Ethnology Institute. On what? According to the figures of the European Union's commission on ethnities. On what? Since 1925, Turkey's Statistical Institute has made statements until 1965, and after 1990, a number of companies such as KODA, such as ANAR, have been investigating these issues as civilians, according to the results of companies. Now, by taking the definition of this integrity, this unity, this union, Kurd from this union, as a separate entity, as a separate entity, the PKK terrorist organization, founded to separate it as a separate entity and divide it apart from the territory of the Republic of Turkey, is a terrorist organization that has been haunted by international forces. Within a period of 30 years, foreign forces, providing logistical support, training, providing information, providing information, have used it to achieve their strategic goals in the process of the Great Middle East Project, in the process of further accessing its own. Under the scope of the Justice and Development Party's opening project, while beginning in Oslo, and continuing in Imralı, the PKK's terrorist organization is assumed to be the representative of our Kurdish brothers, and they are directly accepted and will resolve this problem, meaning the destruction of Turkey. For him, we call this project the project of destruction. Why? Because, while the PKK terror organization has been martyring nearly 40,000 of our people over the past 30 years, only 7,000 soldiers, police, judges, prosecutors, imams, teachers, the remaining 33,000 of our brothers, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) who oppose terrorist activities and express themselves as Kurds, are our citizens living in that region. As a terrorist organization, the PKK has killed 33,000 people in order to establish its sovereignty in this region, but has failed. Now, this is a demolition project. Because, on March 21, 2013, when the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) was registered as the head of the court, they gathered hundreds of thousands of people there to read the message of Ocalan (Ecalan) in Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit03spe0207par0088	A million, a million... not a hundred thousand, a million.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit03spe0205par0089	...as if this is your leader now. It is the best example of a government-controlled and supportive organization given to the destruction of this national unity and brotherhood, hand in hand and together. What happened after the demolition project? Yes, the martyrs don't come, but if you surrender, the martyrs won't come. He raises his hand to the one who has a gun in his hand. Okay, I surrender. If you say, "He won't do anything to you." If you do what they ask, you will not be harmed. What do they want? Their armed forces -- that's what they're saying -- were said to be going abroad, didn't come out. It's just a small group of patients and some of them they judge for themselves. What about the rest? The rest, valued lawmakers, went down to the markets, with his gun, went down to the villages, with his gun, went down to the cities, with his gun. What happened there? Here's what happened: they started collecting taxes there, not taxing the state of the Republic of Turkey, but taxing the PKK. They've established law enforcement units. Publicity units have become able to ask for IDs, even for soldiers who serve their homeland, and by wearing special clothes, they have begun to conduct law enforcement on the citizens there. We've entered the election process. Now, I will decide who will run in the elections, the elements of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) that have come down from the mountain to the village, to the town, to the towns, to the provinces, to the cities, to the cities. They threaten the people who are there, the organizations, who are there; they decide who are running, who aren't. So, this is a complete picture of Turkey's surrender to the PKK terrorist organization that has lived in recent years. Of course, valuable lawmakers have problems in Turkey's Southeast Anatolian region. I'm a brother of yours who's worked in that area for many years, worked as a soldier and served as a judge. The problems of that region are too big to fit into an ethnic basis and an ethnic narrow view. There is a climate problem in that region; snow, winter, apocalypse, the living conditions of that region are difficult. It is the duty of the state of the Republic of Turkey to find a solution within the democratic state of law. It is the government's duty to solve this problem, whether it is Turkish or Kurdish or Chechen in that region. Explaining this under the name of an ethnic identity is the explosion of dynamite for destruction. The Southeast Anatolian region has a geographical problem; its mountains are higher, its plains narrower and surrounded by plateaus. Therefore, there is difficulty in building roads or making some investments. It is, of course, the duty of the governments of the Republic of Turkey and the duty of the state of the Republic of Turkey. The fact that we have people living in different ethnicities there does not change the shape, the quality, the essence. Of course there's an economic problem there. The economic problem is that their production capacity is low and there is difficulty reaching their consumption areas, their markets. This, of course, reduces profitability, and therefore presents the investment of the private sector as an economic cause, except for the threat of terrorism. The solution is the incentive of economic investments in the region, the economic measures the government will take in the framework of resolving these negatives. Leaving all this aside, other than these scientific values, aside from these objective values, I'm going to put the name of these problems in the Kurd problem and put the PKK terror organization's hat on its head, and I'm going to find a cure for it. My dear friends, this will not succeed. Because when we went back to the Battle of Salvation, the people of this country were able to give together the Battle of Salvation, even if they had different ethnities, when this land, which they had shed blood and became their homeland, was in danger. Because if we go back to that period, before the Battle of Salvation, the people who had poured sweat on this country's land to revive the spirit of Kuvaimillili, and had made the land their homeland by their own sweat, their own sweat, their own sweat, their own land, and their different ethnities, came together to protect this land. Again, this country has shed tears of grief over its defeats in the seven fronts of the Ottoman Empire. The tears that flow, the tears of all of us, have made this land a nation. Here, all the people of Asia Minor, before the Battle of Salvation, gave their tears the right and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to turn it into a form of struggle, to support the Kuvasimilli. This project is the Kuvaimilliya project, the destruction project. We will, of course, share our thoughts on their matter with you, but we are completely against its root, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit03spe0208par0101	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0209par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 559. The Commission and the Government are here. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0210par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group over the entire draft of the Law on Change in Various Laws in the Purpose of Development of Basic Rights and Freedoms. I salute the General Assembly. Because of this package that we are discussing here today, the country's basic democratic problems must once again be put on the table, the Parliament must face these problems and take the right stance on the solution. First of all, it has to be clear that the issues of democracy, freedom and justice facing Turkey are not possible to be resolved by day-to-day packages, partial arrangements. Maybe hundreds of packages have been removed so far, but none of them have been a solution. Structural problems lie in the source of Turkey's main crisis today. The existing monotheist, authoritarian, guardian system, which is far from meeting social demands, is constantly producing crises and conflicts, deepening the country's democratic deficit day by day. As long as the constitution of coup, antidemocratic laws, coup institutions and the non-partisan, ultra-centralistic management model are in operation, this country will not be able to make progress in the field of democracy and freedoms. No approach that does not predict structural change, which does not touch the antidemocratic system, will literally lead to democratisation, radical change and transformation. Unfortunately, the government's position in the face of such urgency of democratic structural reforms is far from meeting social demand and expectations. The package that is being discussed today is a concrete example of this. The package, the banner, the antidemocratic practice, the arrangement to open democratic political channels, expand freedoms, establish justice and equality, unfortunately, is not available. The limited arrangements in this package, of course, will contribute to democracy, however small. But that won't cure the patient because the democracy deficit is much bigger. This package does not have a political response, not just for democratisation, but for the process of solutions that have been going on for a year. The important legal democratic steps needed to advance the solution process are unfortunately not included in this package. This is not what society, our people, democratic public expects, in fact. The people's demands for democracy and freedom are beyond the scope of this package. Modern, pluralistic democracies demand what it should be, but unfortunately the package doesn't respond. Today, fundamental freedoms in Turkey are under pressure. The freedoms of different identities, beliefs, and cultures are not constitutionally guaranteed. Politics is not free. Democratic political channels are closed. Freedom of thought and organization faces pressure. Democratic participation and representation are being blocked. There's no justice in representation. Freedom of the press is under pressure. The judiciary has lost its independence and neutrality. We want to ask: How much longer can the structure of a country where elected mayors, politicians, journalists, lawyers are under arrest, freedom of politics, thought and organisation is under pressure, rights are blocked, democratic political channels are blocked, the election dam barrier is under way? How can public peace and security be provided? See, we, in connection with the solution process, have repeatedly presented proposal packages to the government about steps that need to be taken in the short term in order for democratisation to gain speed. The proposed changes to international contracts, including lifting the TMK, reducing the public language use, three years of imprisonment, making it difficult to arrest, ending the sick prisoners, closing the protection system, 3 per cent of the election dam, removing all obstacles in front of democratic demonstrations, the opening of the Cemevs to the meeting, the removal of international contracts, the removal of international contracts, especially the conditions of autonomy, the removal of nationalist, segregation statements in the law, the removal of religious freedom of education, the organisation of citizenship and criteria, the recognition of the right to refuse of conscience. These proposals are steps to pave the way for democracy and freedom, to further the process of resolution, but the government has not taken these legal steps on the agenda, nor have they made such an arrangement in the package, unfortunately. The government, which issued the laws of tenders from parliament, alcohol law, bag laws, cross-border operations, the HSYK Act, the Internet law, and the package of justice, has passed the public's demands and democratisation. The government's failure to focus on radical reforms that guarantee democracy, freedom, based on its numerical majority of antidemocratic regulations to ensure its own security of power demonstrates how weak the bond of power with democracy is. In fact, there have been great opportunities for democratisation since the beginning of the solution process. First of all, the process was supposed to reflect on everyone as the opening of democratisation, but the government didn't take this opportunity correctly, it didn't evolve into democratisation; on the contrary, it followed a policy that led to authoritarian practices that limited freedoms, which led to all kinds of violations, especially the right to life. In the face of such a painting, the government must seriously question itself, review, and face this wrong practice as soon as possible. A mindset that embraces the rhetoric of democracy, but does not meet its purpose, takes this country back, not forward, but also backwards. Today, the reason why democracy and illegal parallel organisations around the world gain so much power is necessary to seek out Turkey's lack of a democratic state of law. Democracy and freedoms have been reduced, and non-democratic forces have been gaining activity. Thus, the reluctant, undecided, and distracting attitude of the government on both the solution to the Kurdish problem and democratisation has provided and provides the basis for the strengthening of parallel organisations. In the same way, a sense of governance, free from participation in democracy, without supervision, is polluting politics in producing corruption and theft. The government must see this truth very clearly and take a proper stand. Today, the Middle East is crawling with regimes, one by one, unable to build new democratic systems. In the same way, there are serious social movements in other neighbouring countries of Turkey. It's obvious what happens to guardians, status quo systems who can't develop their own internal democracy, who can't build their own peace, who can't provide an equal and free living condition for their citizens. The government has to learn a lesson from what's going on. Instead of democratisation, each step will serve the authoritarian structure, deepen the crisis, fuel social conflict. That's why we're calling from here once again: there's only one way out of these crises, and that should be fast towards radical democracy. The steps on democratisation and the solution to the Kurdish problem will pave the way for Turkey, bringing peace and stability. What this country needs is a quick implementation of radical, radical democratic reforms throughout the entire system, particularly the monotheistic, authoritarian constitution and the extremist governance structure. The solution to the Kurdish problem is legal, constitutional reforms, without democratizing the way to fight parallel organisations, corruption. As we discuss this package here, we urge the government, the EC PARTY group and the opposition to consider more demands for democracy and freedom of the public, and also to act in relation to the needs of the solution and peace process. In this context, we expect our group's proposals and proposals to be handled with precision. Dear lawmakers, as I've been saying since the beginning, this package does not contain further regulations at the point of meeting democratic demands. But even though it's limited, of course this package will contribute to democratisation. We consider it at least a small step towards a more comprehensive process of democratization, but we also know that a mindset that opposes even that is trying to prevent the slightest democratic opening is in effect. How can Turkey be democratized by the opposition mentality that says the apocalypse will break with the passing of this package? Now, we want to ask both the power and the opposition about the contents of this package: the prisons are the mirrors of a country. Today there are 522 prisoners and prisoners, 163 of whom are heavy, 66 of whom are on the border of death. There will be news of death at any moment from the prisons. These people who are supposed to spend the last few days with their families are not allowed to say goodbye to them; if these people are released, if they're treated outside, will there be apocalypse? We made an offer to the government, but it's not in this package, so if there was an arrangement put in here, would there be an apocalypse? The Minister's children survived for two months, they were evacuated yesterday. Well, sick prisoners, aren't they human? Isn't that unconscionable? Leaving the sick prisoners won't be a disaster, but tomorrow every funeral, every coffin, will also cause the apocalypse, dear friends. Mr. Prime Minister said that justice was served for yesterday's evacuations. We'd like to state that justice has been brought under way. We want to say that justice will be served only with the release of the people who are currently in prison illegally and unfairly. There's no arrangement for the election dam in this package. The 10% election dam is a product of a coup, it's outdated, it's antidemocratic, it's the biggest obstacle to democratic representation. If the election dam is lifted, if all the political colors in this country are represented in Parliament, will there be apocalypse? Can a AKP who can't lift the election dam say it's been dealt with by coups? Another arrangement in the package is about the help of the treasure. The package predicts 3%, we offered it at 1%. The AKP, CHP, and the MHP shared the treasure among themselves, and they're getting good help. And if the BDP gets treasure help, does that mean there's gonna be hell to pay? Isn't there a tax on the BDP constituent in all this treasure benefit you're getting? Our people will pay taxes, but three parties will benefit from the financial aid. We want to express once again that this injustice must end as soon as possible. To maintain this inequality is unconscionable, political corruption. Another arrangement is about propaganda in different languages and dialects. In practice, these prohibitions have already been overcome by the struggle of our people. Now, it's being made into a law with a package, but in other legislation, language bans continue. If politics is brought here in the native language, if language bans on all laws are lifted, will there be apocalypse? We want to remind the MHP (e.g., the main language does not divide the country; rather, it divides the main language bans, and there is no more democratic and legitimate demand than for a people to organize in their native language, to do politics, to demand education. In all languages in this country, politics should be made, not only in Kurdish, but in Lazca, Arabic, Circeçian, Greek, and Turkish, and should be removed. Another article is related to the study of the native language. The arrangement is not called the language. A language is considered to be different, but we face a reality of power that avoids facing the fact that it is the mother tongue. Now, the arrangement says that different languages can be learned in private schools and are being made into paid education. If there is a different language, if you accept it, why don't you remove the barriers to primary language education; why is it not done in private schools, but in public? Did the citizens of this country learn their native language in private, paid schools? Is there an apocalypse in countries that study different native languages? This package has an arrangement for co-chairing. This is a positive development. To oppose this means to accept the leader's sultan, which has no place in democracy. But the flaw here is that we propose that one of the co-chairs should be a woman, but this bill does not foresee such a condition. This is a male dominant approach that ignores the woman's equal representation in politics. We women don't accept that. Another arrangement is about meetings and demonstration walks. This does not create a wide space of freedom for democratic actions and activities. However, as long as the law of the police remains unchanged, actions and activities will continue. Nine people lost their lives in travel actions. So far, hundreds of people have lost their lives in public demonstrations. As MPs, we were attacked and injured. Last December, three of our people were slaughtered in Highova. If you do not reduce the police's indiscriminate authority to intervene, unfortunately, people will continue to die. As a result, this arrangement is not sufficient, inclusive, and embracer, but is a positive step, however limited. It's never acceptable to be able to tickle democracy and freedom like it's handing out alms. The government must abandon its approach. Our people have won their democratic rights to this day, fighting in the squares, in the fields, and will continue to win. Therefore, the government's arrangement is behind the public struggle. As in democratic countries, rights and freedoms must be recognised unconditionally, unconditionally, fully. Rights and freedoms are not the subject of political bargaining, nor can they be. Everyone needs to get that truth right. With all this, not even to tolerate limited regulations is the greatest damage to this country's democracy. We will do our democratic opposition to the expansion of this arrangement in a broader way, but we will also support the arrangement. Dear lawmakers, on behalf of the MHP Group before me, are particularly postal workers at Imralı Island. I take it this way: Mr. Honey, yes, that's right; we do postal work, but we are proud to be the postman of peace and to be the postman of peace. (Applause from BDP) I'm going to Kandil, I'm going to Imran Island, and I'm seeing Mr. Ocalan, but I'm also coming to the government. I'm going to continue these negotiations because we're trying to make peace, we're fighting for peace. So if there's been no funerals in this geography for a year, if there's no bloodshed in this geography, if the mothers haven't cried in this geography, if the young people in this geography haven't gone into the ground, happy are we, dear friends. We do it not through war, but through peace, and we are proud of it. We salute the General Assembly and support the package.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0211par0035	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0212par0036	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0211par0037	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0212par0038	Mr. President, Mr. Hatti has made some statements which have accused Faruk Bal....that he is not here.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0213par0039	I'm also the one who accused the MHP Group of...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0212par0040	For the record, the nationalist movement group has also been indicted.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0214par0041	Now Mr. Faruk Bal isn't here.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0212par0042	If you'll excuse me, for the record, I don't want a word. Sir, in order for peace to take place, there must be legal, legitimate forces on both sides of the peace. On one side is the government, a legitimate authority elected by the Turkish nation, and on the other is a terrorist organization that kills 40,000 people. So it's not our imagination that there's peace between the two of them...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0214par0044	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0215par0045	Who are you fighting?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0212par0046	...we strongly deny it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0214par0047	Thank you, we don't have that kind of procedure. Thank you, it's on the record.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0212par0049	If you'll excuse me, just a second...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0216par0050	Peace is between the fighting parties.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0217par0051	It's true that Abdullah Ocalan is not the head of the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0216par0052	Who do you make peace with?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0218par0053	And Mr. Faruk...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0219par0054	Mr. Faruk will answer, thank you for the teasing. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Ali Özgündün will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0220par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, the name of the law is the draft of the Law on the Development of Basic Rights and Freedoms, and it is the Law on Changes in Various Laws. In fact, of course, it's as if fundamental rights and freedoms are being expanded in Turkey, and the government is taking a step in that direction. It's not relevant when we look at the content. It's a bill the government made before the closing of the Parliament, as a result of talks with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Dear friends, in fact, they're deceiving there, and they're deceiving the European Union, and they're deceiving the public because what do they say there? Sir, here we are, fulfilling your demands for education in the native language. We can see it's not really like that. In the original bill submitted to the commission, special educational institutions were reduced to the specific schools -- while other languages and dialects were used in education, while special educational institutions were presented in education -- with changes made in the Commission, only special schools were reduced. This way, therefore, sir, here, they go in a middle way, like a kebab, where they're not sincere. Another thing: Here, in the article on the use of these different languages and dialects, the Council of Ministers will decide which ones. So, you, on the one hand, this is a basic human right, right and freedom. That's why we brought it. By contradicting yourself, you say the government decides what is to happen, what human rights are to be used. Dear friends, if one thing is fundamental human rights, it is no longer a blessing given by the permission of another office, but a kindness. You, in fact, deceive the Imran, and deceive him. Another thing: Sir, we're expanding the meeting, the demonstration march, we're opening the freedom zone. You're actually tricking the European Union, you're cheating again. Today, the ECHR, where Turkey is a party, has about 60 files on the violation of the right to nonviolent, non-violent public order, meeting and demonstration walks. From here, I'm afraid our country will be condemned. Of course, according to your law, the intervention of the police may be legitimate, it may be legal, but you forget that you yourself, sir, are in accordance with the Constitution, and I have made this law, which is in accordance with my logic. You can't actually make the law because there is an international Convention on Human Rights that connects Turkey, first of all, you have to be in accordance with this international Convention on Human Rights. So, the ECHR says: "Your internal law arrangement will be based on me, and your signature will be in accordance with this Convention on Human Rights." We are already changing the 90th Article of the Constitution to say in the last statement of the 90°: "When international agreements on national human rights and internal law conflict, international agreements are based on the provisions. So, what does the ECHR say about the meeting and freedom of the show? It's the only legitimate limitation here, the meeting and demonstration march, the only legitimate limitation of this right to use is that it doesn't involve violence, that's all. So, as long as the meeting and demonstration march are peaceful, this is not a formality, such as the notification, or, sir, the disbanding of the clock, the intervention of the police is considered a violation of the European Court of Human Rights. As a matter of fact, the European Court of Human Rights clearly states in the ruling against our country in 2006 on Oya Ataman. There, in a demonstration held at Sultanahmet Square, police are disbanding the show, saying: "We did not allow it here, you cannot have a meeting or a demonstration march." When it comes to the European Court of Human Rights, the authorities must show leniency unless they resort to acts of violence, otherwise the essence of the meeting will be eliminated, he says. So, dear friends, valued lawmakers, if we really want to set up something in that standard, the European standards, the Copenhagen Criters, the European Convention on Human Rights, the right to meet and march in the European Convention on Human Rights, freedom of expression -- which is about freedom of expression, which is a right to freedom of expression -- if we really want to set up something in that standard, then this bill you've brought is a deception, no one has to forgive us. Here you say, sir, when you set this route, here we are, representatives of the county and county parties of political parties, representatives of the public institutional trade establishments there, even though we have put the mayor in this commission, which is what we want, in fact, the commission to set the route, and in the end, you say, "Who gives the decision-making manager?" The governor or the governor. So, what are you going to market to Europe? So, sir, when we set the route, we included various NGOs, political parties, such a commission. Well, then, if you're sincere, we say, "Then let the only majority of this board decide." So the governor will say, "Don't do it in the May 1st Taxi, like last year." No, it's May 1st. Sir, I didn't let you come here, not the route, not the meeting place. You can't say that. In another decision by the European Court of Human Rights, Bulgaria, Stankov says in its decision on the Bulgarian case: "The meeting of Macedonians in Bulgaria to commemorate a historical anniversary, time and place are important, so it's symbolic. The important thing is that if you delay it in time and place with the idea of violence, it is a violation of human rights. No, sir, go do it in Kazlishme. You can't say that. With the arrangement you've brought, you'll provide it. But it's symbolically important. Therefore, the moment you ban this, you will also violate the European Convention on Human Rights. Dear lawmakers, this bill, again, sir, is a provision aimed at providing treasure assistance to political parties who have received 3 per cent and more votes in the parliamentary general elections. You know 7 percent of the current arrangement, and you're drawing it to 3 percent. That's not appropriate either, so 3 percent is a serious number. We said, at least let's get it to 1 percent or let's get it to parties that form a political party group in the House. Because here's the Peace and Democracy Party Group that's in Parliament today, but it can't get help from the treasure. As soon as you gather, the total game of these friends entering the Parliament independently exceeds 3 per cent, approaching 7 per cent. If you're bringing this for him, there's still a lack of intimacy. You insist on running as a party, but on one hand, you're protecting the 10% threshold. So you're saying national will, national will. Right now, your ruling party group's vote is 49 percent under normal conditions. You're up to 320 or so when you're supposed to remove 276 of 550 people. So you got 50 deputies out of this election system wrongfully. It's actually not fair to the national will. This is an arrangement that leads to you in a place where a citizen does not vote for you, and you are wrongfully appointing an MP. As long as this arrangement remains there, it is also a deception to bring it here to 3% of the time with the help of the treasure. So, come on, let's put it together as a whole, so as long as you don't lower the dam system in the parliamentary election, it's a trick unless you make it parallel. So you deceive the world, you deceive the public, and you actually deceive the BDP. Dear friends, again, you are predicting that the commission, which will determine the route of this meeting and demonstration march, will be able to appoint representatives of political parties whose group is in parliament. You're not bringing in the representative of the political party who received 3 per cent of the vote here, while dropping the funds to 3 per cent, to the commission on where the meeting and demonstration march will take place -- which, according to you, the governor will make the final decision. It creates a different contradiction. At some time, a party in some counties may receive the vote of 65-70 per cent -- two thirds of those people, 80 per cent of them, sir -- 90 per cent of them -- but it may not be able to get members of Parliament, for other reasons. Therefore, during meetings and demonstrations in that province, the party's representative, the party's high-voting party in that province alone, must be found first. Isn't that right? So there won't be a representative of a political party that's dragging the biggest crowd, there'll be a political party -- a group in parliament -- that gets votes in the 5 percent -- because there's a group of people. That's a different contradiction. So I think it's far from intimate. Dear friends, with this law again, sir, you're making some changes in the Turkish Penal Code. He goes on to say, "With courage, threats, or any other violation of the law. " Now you're going to come and say, "It's in the previous law." Dear lawmakers, the concept of violation of the law is not a concept applied to criminal law; it means more in terms of private law, civil law, debt law. The concept of illegality is a very broad concept. The concept of illegality is subject to all kinds of legislation. However, according to our Constitution, according to international human rights contracts, which we signed again, crime and punishment can only be violated by law. So even when you can't commit a crime, by bringing and subtracting a full sentence from a governor, by the generality of a chancellor, by the general code of law, that's a law law, which violates the law in a broad way, you've been in violation of the governor's generality, and you've been in violation of the president's writing. You can limit freedoms by saying, "You're in violation of the governor's law." In fact, you're committing a crime, so you're making an arrangement here that will result in criminal action after a restraining order. You say rights and freedoms, and again you bring an interesting thing in Article 1153 of Article 115 of the Law under Article 14 of the Law, by using either a ruler or a threat, or any other violation of the law, that is how you punish someone who interferes with their preferences to the way of life, the way of belief, the way of thought, or the way of life which they think. Once the concept of illegality is a different matter, let's get to the other side of it. Why are you bringing this? Sir, let's be clear, you're making it a crime to interfere with my turban. So, if you're sincere, if you're democratic, if you're liberal, and you're afraid of God, what kind of contradiction is this when the Aleki lives today represent one-third of this country's citizens, the first ones to pay the most for this country's Turkish and Islamic homeland, the Alemi souls still don't take their mosques to worship? Are you really sincere? I mean, what kind of a sense of justice is that, on the one hand, when you're budgeting five quadrillion liras this year from the tax you've collected from the Sunni faith, while you're taking electricity money from the company's industry schedule? What kind of law is that? What kind of freedom is that? Sir, we're doing it. We're going to do it about the Alekis. How many packages have you had? When are you going to do it? Well, you're giving it time. I mean, who's holding you back on this? On the one hand, the mufti, the mufti who feed on my tax, are writing reports that insult, snore, transgressor, and still serve this mufti, sir. I'm going to pay taxes, you're going to assimilated me with my tax, you're going to humiliate me, on the one hand, you're going to say I'm a liberal, you're a democrat. That's contradiction, that's insincere, that's hypocrisy. Another thing, dear friends, is a hate crime. You bring in a hate crime only because of language, race, nationality, color, gender, disability, political thinking, philosophical belief, religion or sectarian difference; a person is punished for selling or renting a moving or moving property to the public; a certain service offered to the public, taking advantage of, hiring and taking part in an economic event, you say. So you're not punishing hate speech. Another thing is, you're not putting a sexual identity in here. Why don't you put in a sexual identity? Sexual identity, age, marital status, physical and mental disability, why don't you put him in medical condition? Isn't that discrimination on your part? So when there's discrimination against a person due to sexual identity, it's not a crime, it's the arrangement you brought. Is this your idea of freedom? Sir, I don't rent. That's my choice. Because of his sexual orientation, his sexual identity. Is that what you're saying? Say it loud and clear. Sir, it's a civilized situation... I don't give homes to bachelors, I don't hire bachelors. Is that what you're saying? Say it loud and clear. Another thing, the most hate crime is based on rhetoric. You're committing a hate crime when you go out in the squares and you say to Mr. President, "This is Alevi." If this isn't going to be punished, are you trying to cover it up with hiring, renting? That's insincere. So we say that any person or group associated with that person or group, race, nationality, ethnicity, religion, faith, disbelief, political opinion, language, gender, sexual orientation, sexual identity, physical or mental disability, health status, or age has been discriminated against in this way, and this group, if you are to be subjected to this manner of discrimination by using elements like ethnicity, religion, sect, language, language, language, and other material, is to be humiliated, writing, image, or other material, this group of people, if you are to be inferior to this crime, it is also to the internationality. I don't want to tell you a group from here -- you're going to insult it with various slanders and humilitys, and you're going to laugh at the joke on that group, ha, ha, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, hi, it's not a hate crime, but I'm not renting my house. Isn't that a contradiction, fellas? Thus, the government's bill means nothing in terms of freedom, democracy. To have democracy, rights and freedoms, to be used effectively, there must be an independent judiciary in a country. If there are no court decisions in the country today, if there are no judicial decisions, you can't tell me about freedom, it's all bullshit. No matter what happens, a court order must be carried out. Otherwise, you can't keep patriots in Silivri. What was the evacuation of your man Reza Zarrab, who was released yesterday, bribed, met by the convoy, who bribed your banks? Sir, the evidence is collected, there is no doubt of escape, and the minister's children will not escape as of their position, so I'm evacuating. If you file an eviction request every day, one of them will meet, and the court on duty will change. Here, what kind of tricks have been turned, evacuated. Will the country's Chief of Staff escape? What are you holding him for? He can't run, he can't run, he can't go abroad. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If he did, he'd be the target of foreign intelligence services, terrorist organizations. You're not going to do that, you're going to evacuate from the other side, which is a contradiction. I respectfully salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0221par0088	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Bartın MP Yilmaz Bronzeç will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0222par0092	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group over the entire bill of law on the development of fundamental rights and freedoms and the development of various laws. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. I wish that the 18-point package of democraticisation, which includes very important reforms for the development of fundamental rights and freedoms, is a blessing for our country and our nation. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTI has pledged to name its programme as the Democratic Development and Development Programme while it was being established in 2001, that when it comes to power, our country will raise the bar of democracy and increase its level of development; it has signed major reforms on the two main topics it has promised to our nation in 12 years since its arrival in power. Reinforcement of human rights and democracy: This twelve-year period in our history in terms of the great development move has been the scene of taking significant steps to ensure that our democracy is placed on a solid basis, that people from all sides take the widest use of basic rights and freedoms. These steps of democratization have shortened the distance between the state and society, strengthening the trust of our nation's state. In the previous period, due to the security perspective and guardianship institutions, the voice of our people, who have been ignored, including rights and freedoms, has been balanced between security and freedom, and the effort has been made to meet our people's legitimate demands in the most broadest way possible, regardless of any distinction between them. The steps taken by EC PARTY governments in this process point to a historic curve at the point of reaching the great and powerful Turkey of the future. You should look at the ethnic, cultural, religious and political differences that have been made in the area of democratization with an understanding that all of our citizens are equally distant and all of them are equal and free citizens of our country, and the wounds of the past are of great importance. In this movement of democratisation, which is based on human-focused governance, it is aimed at liquidating all kinds of power and replacing it with a system dominated by the will of the nation. This goal has led our citizens to take advantage of basic rights and freedoms in universal standards. It would be a good approach to describe the vast change and transformation process in Turkey in the past 12 years as the quiet revolution. Because between 2002-2014, reforms in Turkey aimed at raising the bar for democracy and human rights have been implemented one after another. The criminal law package we discussed last week, the package of democratization that we're discussing today, are the most important indicators that these steps are being carried out with determination. Dear lawmakers, in our country, in view of the developments following the transition to democracy and the functioning of the democratic regime, a significant feature appears to be custody. With the coups of May 27 and September 12th, which targeted the rulings, the awards on March 12 and February 28th showed the power of guardians actors, one of the most important institutions in the context of custody of the National Security Council with the 1961 Constitution. Men and bureaucratic actors outside the Armed Forces must not be forgotten in the context of custody. The judiciary is a key part of that. Because his decisions are binding and are not subject to the supervision of another public official, the judiciary is in a different position. Especially when custody actors are active, or when custody actors are dominant, the judiciary is able to decide by ideological preferences rather than by law and freedom, and the rule of law is being undermined. At work, the AK PARTY governments and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the 22nd, 23rd and 24th Legislature, signed major reforms in the effort to overcome all kinds of custody, boost the standard of democracy and civilisation. In our country, security paradigms have been altered at this time, significant judicial reforms have been implemented. In this context, the removal of state security courts and then special authorities courts, changing the structure of the Supreme Council of Constitutional Courts and Judges and Prosecutors, the launch of the National Union and Brotherhood Project, followed by the end of 30 years of terrorism, extradition of citizens, facilitating daily life, and reducing the name of bureaucracy, giving the former names of settlements as important reforms and gains for our country. The EC PARTY, which changed the security paradigm over 12 years, has also helped civilise its reforms. In this context, the President's election by the public, the Secretary General of the National Security Council, the narrowing of the jurisdiction of the military judiciary, the removal of the EMASYA Protocol, the removal of military membership in some public institutions and institutions, the opening of the judicial path to high military decisions, the opening of the judicial path to 12 September coupgers, the establishment of research commissions on this issue in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The past 12 years have also been a stage for major reforms in the development of human rights. The policy of zero tolerance for torture, the expansion of freedom of expression and press release, the collapse of mafia and gangs, the end of unsolved cases, the retrials in accordance with the European Court of Human Rights decisions, the adoption of the Information Act, the meeting and demonstrations, the extradition of minority foundations, the right to individual application to the Constitutional Court, the establishment of the Public Court of Human Rights, the establishment of Turkey's Human Rights Foundation, reforms on children and women's rights, the development of supervised freedoms and judicial control systems, the final improvement of human rights in two years. And the bill that we're discussing today shows us that there is a Turkey going on without slowing down the democratisation. We're also doing today the part of what our Prime Minister announced in October, which will be carried out by legal regulations of the democraticisation package, which has been implemented in a significant part of the administrative plane. This bill makes significant changes in our laws so that the right to choose and be elected with freedom of expression from basic human rights, the use of meeting and marching rights, and not be discriminated against because of the individual's property. With the bill we're talking about, the timeline for the use of the meeting and demonstration march is extended, the election propaganda allows for different languages and dialects to be used, the mandate of the organization is lifted in the cities, the political parties are allowed to elect co-chair, and the voting rate of our political parties is reduced to 7 per cent so that they can benefit from state assistance is reduced to 3 per cent. In different languages and dialects, the opening of private schools, blocking the right to education and teaching, no matter what faith the person has, the previous speaker said, not including the Alevis, including the Alevis; the prison sentence for those who prevent the person from doing what he believes is required, and the provisions that bring criminal sanctions to those who interfere in people's way of life will be a key part of the development of human rights. On the other hand, the crime of hate has taken place on the international agenda as one of the most important things to deal with today. In hate crimes, the target is more than the victim's social group, the victim's member. For the perpetrator, prejudice, open or veiled, creates the motivation for crime to be committed. Due to the fact that discrimination is based on hate crime, with the perpetrator and the victim, has a close impact on the entire community. In this scope, the Turkish Penal Code emphasised that discrimination is hate-based discrimination, as well as hate crime, which is more in line with the Turkish criminal justice system. With the bill coming to life, our country will have moved a significant distance towards improving human rights and freedoms. Every single one of these important reforms that we're interviewing today, and we've done with the packages before, is a silent revolution.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0223par0109	The counter-revolution.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0222par0110	... thatwe could vote with opposition parties, but it's not possible, it hasn't happened. I wish we could all raise our hand here at the removal of special jurisdictional courts. It wouldn't be bad if we all had votes to reduce their long-term arrest. Wouldn't it be better if we all held an individual application to the Constitutional Court where the arrested MPs were released using their right to apply? Would it not be more elegant for all of us to say yes to defence in the main language, which is one's most natural right? If all of us had supported the process of solving terrorism, wouldn't we have done a better job for our country and our nation? Throughout our history, democracy has been a constant problem, and we have found only our nation as a supporter, as we implement these major reforms that are waiting for a strong will to take place. In both the implementation of democratisation reforms and in implementing projects that challenge the world in a major development move, we have not been on a sunny road for 12 years. In the process, we were always tried to be blocked by the power centers that were burning with longing for the old Turkey, demanding the continuation of the sense of custody. As the EC PARTY, we've always done these reforms, this great success, the economic development move that has raised our country fourfold, the struggle to increase our nation's well-being, the obstacle course. If the role of opposition parties in this obstacle race had been a constructive opposition rather than an obstacle, the opposition would have benefited, and our nation and our country would have gained more. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, those who are troubled by the fact that the revolutionary reforms that I've counted just now, those who do not want our country's people to live a prosperous life, will continue to be embarrassed by their coup attempt, their April 27th declarations, their 367 crises, their closed-down cases, and those who are trying to stop this struggle for democracy, will not be able to stop the pace of our country. No one will be able to reduce Turkey's energy with editing politics. NO one will be able to break AK PARTY's enthusiasm for serving the nation with false listening records. No one can erase the love of Recep Tayyip Erdogan from this nation's heart with dirty games. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Well, we're going to the election, so don't worry too much. March 30th is very close. On April 1st, we're all here, the House will reopen and we'll face each other again, we'll always remember what we talked about. So we have to be realistic in our conversations here. On March 30th, as in the previous five elections and two referendas, this time, in a louder voice, he will say no to slander politics, slander politics, guardianial understanding, and continue to push away those who want to block the new path to Turkey. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the package of democratisation to be a blessing, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0224par0117	Thank you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0225par0118	Mr. President, the speaker who just spoke to me has not been counted in this context. There's been a misunderstanding about that, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0224par0119	Here you go, just a minute...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0225par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, our friend, who just spoke for the ruling party, at my speech, said, "Sir, the Alekis are within that scope." That's what I mean there, once again, without giving legal status to the mosques of the Alevis, the official opinion of the government today, the official opinion of the Dianet, my lord, a religion of Muslims, a church of the Christians, a temple of the Jews. So, brother Alevi, you are also an expression of Islam. Here, come to the mosque, worship as I do, and be assimilated. So it's a contradiction, when you're being discriminated against in this sense, when you're bringing in a small part of a false belief -- which is controversial -- and you're threatening him with punishment, and that's insincere. That's what I meant. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0226par0125	This belief... we mean all the beliefs.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0227par0126	Thank you. Members of parliament, first place on behalf of individuals is Eskişehir MP Süheyl Batum. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I've just heard what our friends have said about this new package of democratization, and we've just heard it from the Minister. We've talked about that in the commission, and really, the power says something, the opposition says the opposite; it's an element of parliamentary regimes, democratic regimes, but it's very hard to say that you can't understand so differently, in a sense, that you can't. What do I want to say? Now, the most we've heard in AKP power, I'm telling you, really, the promise of democratization and the package of democratization, reforms, and democratization.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0229par0135	So you're giving him credit.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0136	Dear Bulent, I'll take one. The first judicial package, sorry, the package of democratization; the second package of democratization, the judiciary; the third judicial package; the fourth judicial package; and finally the fifth one you brought in the other day. Now, what was the point, what did you say it for? Let's stop the trial from making long decisions, eliminate the law, eliminate the long arrests. Let's return to your five years in the five judicial packages after the Constitutional Court's decision. You've opened five packages for this, five packages. Dear friends, what happened, by the way? False evidence, circumstantial evidence, convictions with them -- uh, these in the middle -- seven years of imprisonment, five years of imprisonment. What have you brought for the sake of God, and what have you brought against them? Let's just say it's in good faith, but I don't mean it in good faith, because then it'll be awkward. Would it be so difficult for a person to be released with five judicial packages, if he had a crime in accordance with the European Court of Human Rights norms, in accordance with universal norms, to be arrested and if there was no danger of escape, of tampering with evidence? Dear friends, the last thing we did was remove the SOCs. You say, "We've become democratic." What happened? We all lived together. Let's get rid of the stories. Let's remove the investigations. Let's destroy the evidence. This will apply to current investigations and prosecutions. Well, what about the seven-year-olds? We're not there yet, guys. We haven't learned that yet. We'll find out from now on! Now, it's very easy to do this... and my dear Yilmaz Bronzen says: "We've become democratic, we're doing great things." Now, there are three important issues in this law. This democratization... we were all there, we talked about it. Once a demonstration march, dear friends, meeting demonstration march, Article 34 of the Constitution, changed in 2001. We had to make a proper law, and the governor still sets the route, and he still sets his route to the chief. Now, we talked about it there, and we said, "Come on, let's not do this, let's get democratic. You said no. And you put together a great democratic formula. To make it easy on the daily lives of all the citizens... (Laughter) Oh, that's good! That's the essence of the rally demonstration march, that's what it is. There's something to look at as the man passes by; he'll say, "What's going on?" The meeting will say, "They're doing a demonstration march, they don't like anything." No... You added this: we know about the lawsuits on this subject, which will not make the daily lives of the citizens difficult. Just because you walked by the bus stops, you walked near... If you don't know, I'll show you. In Eskişehir...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0230par0140	Because you smashed up the bus stops.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0141	By God, you didn't break it, you did it near it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0231par0142	Flowers, flowers!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0230par0143	Ah Hajji, ah!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0144	Dear friends, now, in the demonstration march, we said, "Come, let's not leave this property to the chief; let's form a council from civil society organizations, party representatives in that province, and let's have a board."
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0232par0145	You want chaos, chaos!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0146	No, you said. It's so...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0232par0147	It's chaos, chaos!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0148	Now I see you're even more interesting. You know what my dear brother says? It says: Aman, it's chaos to want democracy.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0232par0149	No, it has nothing to do with democracy!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0150	So... we call it. So our governor, our governor, determines the measure of democracy.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0233par0151	Is that how you see it?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0152	Now, we all said, "Come, let's put in party representatives, put in a board, let's let him decide." You said, "No." We've become so democratic! What did we do? By receiving his views... ▪ E received his views, didn't comply. Well, that's our democracy. We're saying it's wrong today because it's obvious what we're doing in the sense of judgment. Dear friends, this is against the law. Come on, let's look at the 11th article. Guys, there's no example of something like this in the world.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0234par0154	We're a model country, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0155	We've established the Constitutional Compromise Commission. We sat down. We sat for two years. When we were sitting for two years, the BDP people -- Mr. Bengi is there, too, he knows -- rightly said: "Come, let's leave private schools out of these foundations." They brought in materials two years ago. BDP was honest about it; he said: "This is what I want. Let's put this in." There was Faruk Bey, and there I was, and so were our friends from AKP. No, no, we can't accept such a thing. Private schools, formal schools are not discriminated against in Turkish law, schools are subject to the same principles.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0235par0156	The AKP didn't agree either.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0157	And they said, "No, that's not gonna happen." They said we don't discriminate between private schools and formal schools. Next thing we know, we're getting democratic! Well, education in private schools can be done in another language. Come on, make a change.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0236par0158	With who?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0237par0159	With whom, with you, Hajji?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0160	Don't make any changes with me, you suggest... look, he wanted the BDP, too. No, will I do it with you? What am I going to do? I mean, I'm going to con it. How are you going to con it? I don't know, the Prime Minister told me, it's probably true. We have a deal.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0236par0161	If you call that a yes, we'll do it. Do you say yes?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0162	Now, don't say "yes" or "yes," but don't say "wake up."
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0238par0163	You agreed on 60, why didn't you accept it?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0239par0164	Let's not talk mutually, please.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0165	Give me your answer. Two years here, two years at the Constitutional Commission, private schools. He says: "What is it, let our children learn Kurdish and learn other languages? " Mr. Secretary, what is your understanding of this special school? Yeah, elementary school, middle school, high school, college, driver's class, what? I can't say that. Or the game will come out. We're just passing through a private school. Can we come here and say, "Can we give this permission when we need to?" We go to the other side, and we say it in the Black Sea, and we go to Central Anatolia, and we go to the southeast, and we say, "Look, we bring it." He says, "We get votes from everyone, and we get votes from everyone, according to their heart." Now, you're clearly violating the Constitution with that kind of cunning. Come on, change the Constitution, come on, change the Constitution, come on.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0240par0166	You didn't come to the meeting, to the meeting.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0241par0167	Teacher, you agreed on 60 articles, why didn't you accept him?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0168	My dear brother, he wasn't in those 60 articles, I assure you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0241par0169	Maybe, let's do 60, let's look at that later. Why can't we get along?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0170	No, no, no.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0242par0171	Please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0172	Now, come on, there are some incredible elements of this law, let me be clear, other than that.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0243par0173	Teacher, you didn't agree with each other on the commission. You weren't coming to the meeting.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0174	Point shot, we're democratizing, friends, we're democratizing in political parties. All right, that's great.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0243par0175	Do you even vote?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0228par0176	Maybe they're going to play with the dam, maybe they're going to run the election at the party... and they're going to bring in the co-chair at the parties, the co-chair is in charge of other presidents. Let's see, just in case we don't get elected for the third time in August, we're out in the open. Wait, should we give it to Abdullah Gül, or should we? If we sit down, who are we going to give the job of identifying the list of these friends? Open, co-chair, co-chair.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0244par0177	You're reading intent. You've studied intent for years.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0245par0178	He'll give it to you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0246par0179	And by co-chair, we care about female representation. It's a woman, woman!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0247par0180	They're tricking us too, saying, "Sir, did he bring it for Ocalan, brought it for Ahmet, brought it for Mehmet?" No, no, for the president of these, for the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0248par0181	Let's give it to the president of the CHP!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0247par0182	Two, my dear friends, the last thing I'm going to say is look at this 16th article. You know what they say?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0249par0184	Thank you, Mr. Batum.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0247par0185	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0249par0186	Mr. Batum, thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0247par0187	Thief, embezzler, anyone...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0249par0188	Your time is up.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0247par0189	I finished it right away. They're calling it a party. People were already talking about this politics, and they were clearly angry sometimes, when we called it the thieves' party, and now with this change...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0250par0191	Why are you looking there, Hajji?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0247par0192	Not for you, for all of us.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0251par0194	Mr. Batum, your time is up, please...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0252par0195	They will ask him of your days, and shall ask of Sarıgül, and of Sarıgül, and of your days.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0251par0196	Second speaker on behalf of Mr. Fatih Şahin, Ankara MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0253par0199	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a solemn pledge on behalf of myself on the entire Bill of the Law for the Development of Basic Rights and Freedoms, and I salute you all. Since November 3, 2012, we have made our country with our unremarkable love for our nation, and in every area, very important services, very important investments, and radical reforms. There is no doubt that among the things we have given to Turkey in the past 11 or 12 years, democratic reforms have a separate and special place. Our country's face has changed because of these reforms that we have taken to make Turkey a more democratic, freer, more prosperous, more peaceful, safer country. The steps of democratisation directly influenced our economy, our foreign policy, our social life, allowing our country to grow strong and stable in all areas. In order to make the state a servant of our nation, to close the distance between the state and the nation, to allow the state to embrace the nation, we have become very important, very serious steps, our efforts, our reforms. By developing a new security paradigm, we carried out a silent revolution, so to speak, during our reign. For example, on the 12th day of our arrival in power, we began to rule this country by removing the extraordinary state, which has lasted fifteen years and has been extended 46 times. We've removed the state security courts, and we've recently removed special authority courts. We've established the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security. With the national unity and brotherhood project, we've had a revolution of mentality in this land. We have arranged for prisoners and prisoners in prisons to communicate with their relatives in their native language, in their language, in their own language.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0254par0203	People die in prison!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0253par0204	We've established the Public Control Agency, the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey. We've granted the Supreme Court the right to an individual application. We've allowed the National Security Council to gain a freer, more democratic, more civil identity.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0254par0205	You've purged the army!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0253par0206	We've opened the way for judgment against age decisions. We did it with the support of our nation, despite your opposition, despite your resistance.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0254par0207	By tricking me, by tricking me!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0253par0208	We cut the national security information course out of the curriculum, and ended the practice of our oath, which is the dominant remnants of the one-party rule.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0255par0209	I'm Turkish, I'm right, I'm hardworking.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0253par0210	We've removed legal obstacles to the trial of September 12th coupgers. We've eliminated obstacles to the appeal of government officials to the judiciary, and we've expanded judicial security further. We've strengthened the union rights of officers, and we've given public officials the opportunity to get a collective contract. The ban on headscarfs in public institutions has been brought to an end in this land, thank God. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, each one of them is the demands of our nation, the actions that have been taken in accordance with the needs of our nation, our social peace has been strengthened, our unity and unity have been strengthened, and our blood and tears have been ended. Parents' concerns about sacrificing their children to terrorism have been observed and eliminated. Thanks to these improvements to basic rights and freedoms, our country has achieved a high self-esteem, a secure economic basis for looking to the future. In this way, our national income has increased by more than three stories in 11 years, our exports have increased by more than four times; the state debt interest has fallen, and the interest reduction in interest has costed $642 billion -- $642 billion -- in old money -- has won this land, this nation, this state, this state. That's about twice our annual income budget. Of course, we don't expect the nation's banks to be siphoned, the government's vault emptied, the country's poorer in one day, and those who watch all this going on will understand this point our country has come to. While young people's rights to education are being taken from them because of their beliefs, because of their opinions, while irregular judgments are being made, we can understand that those who remain silent when the most fundamental rights and freedoms are being taken underfoot are being disturbed by the vision of democracy and freedom of the EC PARTI. In those days, even these days, we didn't expect gangs, mafias, juntas, custody centers to develop any kind of attitude other than those who stand hand-to-hand against capital groups. At a time when unresolvedness is adopted as a political style, it takes a lot of courage and courage to make these reforms. For 11 years, we have achieved these reforms, despite these challenges, despite the resistance. The new reforms we wish to carry out today, the new steps we want to take, are the result of our 11 years of journey into democratisation. Turkey is now in the direction of democracy irreversibly. In this direction, in this proposed bill, I would like to share with you some of the issues that we plan to throw out, which we offer to the discretion of the House. In order for the meeting and demonstration march to be carried out in a more free environment, we are handing over the duties and powers given to the government commissioner to the regulatory board. We remove obstacles to education and teaching in different languages and dialects. We're increasing the penalty for obstructing the right to education and teaching. We guarantee the continuity of public services and the benefit of our citizens. We're changing the definition of discrimination, increasing the punishment for hate-based discrimination. We're removing the restrictions on fundraising, making it possible for our citizens to give their help wherever they want with their free will. We are removing legal obstacles to changing the name of the village. So we're taking away the provisions that connect the use of letters such as letters, such as letters, such as letters, to the criminally responsible, so to speak, we're bringing freedom to keyboards.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0256par0217	You even broke the alphabet.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0253par0218	We rule out propaganda in different languages and dialects as a crime. We're making the co-chair system available to political parties, making it possible, and making it legal.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0256par0219	You're building your own state, the AKP state.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0253par0220	We are drawing the estimated 7 per cent limit for state aid to political parties to 3 per cent.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0256par0221	You've been gracious!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0253par0222	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, these steps we've taken, this point we've come to, no doubt, are not the end. As human beings exist, as life goes on, change and uniformity will continue, new needs will emerge as conditions change. He will never give up our country's democratic, freer, more prosperous, safer, more peaceful future, and we will continue to take new and powerful steps, as determined as ever, to achieve this ideal. We will continue to continue our reforms for the great Turkey again so that our country can achieve its goals of 2023, to rise to a more active and prestigious position in its region and in the world. As we have done so far, we will take all these steps in accordance with our nation's support, needs, and demands. This package, and none of the steps we've taken before, is the result of an agreement, an interview, a negotiation. It's all the steps our nation has set for us in its direction and in its course. At the end of my words, I wish that the proposed bill would bring blessings to our country, to our nation, to our state, to our country.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0257par0226	Thank you. Congressmans, we will now begin the process of answering questions. We're 20 minutes out. In ten minutes, I'll be taking the questions of the MPs, and in the next ten minutes, I'll promise Mr. Secretary. I promise the MPs who enter the system in a row: Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0258par0230	Mr. Secretary, is there an investigation into the Prime Minister's son Bilal Erdogan? If so, what is the subject of this investigation? On what charge did the investigation open? Has Bilal Erdogan been called to testify or testified under this investigation? Bilal Erdogan was charged with what crimes? Where is the investigation?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0257par0231	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0259par0232	Mr. Minister, the events of the Travel Park are the public movements that have announced to the world that AKP power is never a democratic government. There are 7,832 injured, six dead, and 60 others heavy, and 17 young people have been blinded among them. You've brought in undercover cops and agents to deflect this unarmed and non-aggressive public reaction. You made a scene as if there was an attack on public property. You've filed criminal charges against 15-year-olds who've taken the right to a meeting and demonstration. I'd like to know how many police investigations and criminal cases have been filed against how many officers have directly put a pepper gas capsule directly into the citizens' heads that should be thrown over the crowd at a 45-degree angle. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0257par0234	Mr. Köse, I don't think there's a Mr. Köse. Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0260par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, is it true that a tradesman who was beaten to death during demonstrations in Eskişehir, Ali İsmail Korkmez, who was beaten to death on the street, was asked by security if there were cameras, and that the switch was immediately asked to be turned off after being told there were cameras? Have any of these cops been processed? My second question: In the assessment report prepared by İstanbul Police following the travel park protests, close to 70 per cent of those participating in the protests were claimed to belong to a specific sect. Based on what criteria and scientific data? Is a device designed to measure people's sects, or is the state's security organization a sect between citizens and a hate crime? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0261par0240	Mr. Original...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0262par0241	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, your government has previously announced that a separate study of the Alevi section's religious and religious problems has been carried out. At what stage is this subject, what kind of work are you doing, and while he's doing it, do you have a consultation with the representatives of the country's Alevi, Jaferi, Bektashi, and other political parties? Two, a report by Public Chief of Staff during the Traveling events has found that there have been serious human rights violations. Again, a violation of the rights has been found regarding a statement issued by the governor of Istanbul. What did your government do about it? I mean, there's a report on the State Chief of State, but what kind of procedures did you do under the report, Governor and other public officials? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0263par0245	Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0264par0246	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I want to ask you very clearly, and I especially want to ask you: "May 1 is exactly two months away, you know, the date of November 22, 2012 by the ECHM, which is the area of 1 May, and 388676/08. It is registered by the decision of the DİSK and the SEC. Now, as long as we're going to travel, Turkey is actually... I've expressed it from this platform, and one day the people will be there again and they will celebrate. I'm asking you right now and I want to know: in this emerging democraticization law and so on, I'm asking you very clearly, Mr. Secretary, if the workers, the workers, the workers, will freely celebrate May 1st.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0265par0249	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0266par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, with this change you've brought, there's an arrangement to help political parties, and we're reducing the ratio here to 3 percent. The main problem with this election dam is, does the government have a study of the 10 per cent dam? In the 2013 announcements, accept the thing about the presidency, we will lower the election dam, and even release the prisoners in Silivri. There have been statements from the government. There is no threshold for 10 per cent in any country in the EU. How long will Turkey carry this shame? You say we have a problem with the coup d'état of September 12th, and I wonder why you're keeping that legacy. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0267par0253	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0268par0254	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, why are you opposed to public language education, one? Second, political representation, democracy is the main theme of democratisation. Why don't you change the Law on Political Parties, the electoral system, and still insist on keeping the election dam high, lowering it? Again, won't this meeting create an antidemocratic situation, such as preventing democratic rights by the governors of demonstration march, disbanding gatherings in front of the party with gas bombs? Will the Prime Minister stop VIP meetings at the airport in the morning after this law? Because some people have exclusive rallies at the time they're asked to, where they're wanted. In opposition, we see the TOMA and the gas bomb in front of us, so how is that discrimination...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0269par0260	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0270par0261	Thank you, Mr. President. In Article 14 of the bill, you consider it a crime to meet the requirements of religious faith or to prevent religious worship or ritual from being held individually or collectively. If I came to worship here at the time of prayer, and did my prayer here, and did my prayer here, and my prayer here, and you stopped me from performing my worship, would you not be guilty of it? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0271par0265	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0272par0266	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, where is it in democracy that you are now being called by the Prime Minister of Morocco to be censored on Haberturk TV, to be flagged on the Internet, to have all the impropriety of SOMs founded by you in 2004, and then ten years later when the work is directed towards you? What good is this package of democratization that you brought in in an environment where the newspaper was bought with special orders, where the columnists were thrown out of the newspaper?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0273par0269	Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0274par0270	Mr. Atalay, if the person named Yasin Al-Qadi has been banned from Turkey, if he has been banned from Turkey, at what date or when is it removed? Has Yasin Al-Qadi entered Turkey when he was banned? Has an MIT report been filed months ago regarding a person named Reza Zarrab, and does this MIT report indicate that Reza Zarrab was involved in unusual relations, financial relations with some ministers? Have you received information about the transfer of foreign currency to foreign countries, including over $10 million in state-of-the-art aircraft from abroad, or from abroad? Do you also have information that any cabinet minister and his family have recently requested asylum from Malaysia? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0275par0274	Last question, Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0276par0275	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, on December 17th, Mr. Prime Minister calls the prosecutors who conducted this December 17th operation, the police who enforced it, a gang called it a traitor. Is there a case against these prosecutors? Are there any investigations? Or is he coming to a stage where he can produce criminals and then commit crimes? It really looks that way when we look out there. And secondly, we're going through a process where the government has been robbed by this government, so now, I'm asking from here, when we actually look at the tapes -- they're being published -- we're putting that aside, but in a situation where the government's been robbed so much, is there any truth to any of this? If there's any truth to it, is it right for the government to sit in that chair?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0277par0278	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have ten minutes and 34 questions. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0278par0281	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you again. Of course, there are some questions that I can't answer, and I'm passing them. I mean, it's especially about these Travel Park events -- of course I can't possibly know those things -- or about Eskişehir, the implementation of police in Eskişehir, etc. I mean, we have to look. That, of course, is what the Home Secretary would know. There's a question of whether or not there's any work on the elevatory? It's Mr. Original Day. We've got work to do, it's working now. In this regard, frankly, let me make it clear, of course, that we, of course, would very much like to have him in the package that we're talking about right now, so this is Turkey's social issue right now. This must be resolved with the broadest of negotiations. There's been a lot of interviews, but I've been talking to this package myself, and we've been working on it for, like, four months, and we've really wanted it, and it's been on the agenda all the way back to the last few days, but it hasn't been able to, you know, be a little more mature between themselves, so... I mean, especially here, it's about the status of the camisoles, so maybe it was one of the most important issues...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0279par0284	Mr. Secretary, there's a cut of the budget, there's textbooks.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0278par0285	But we have a commitment to this, and hopefully, with your support, we won't be able to talk to them about this until...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0279par0286	We've offered the law, Mr. Secretary, we can remove it, if you mean it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0278par0287	Okay. It's Mr. Çelebi. Of course, it's May 1st, so it's been resolved, and it's been going smoothly in recent years. Let's hope it goes smoothly again.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0280par0289	Where did you solve it, Mr. Secretary? Did you celebrate it in the taxi? That's the trip.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0281par0290	Mr. Çelebi, you've asked your question, you'll wait for the answer, please...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0280par0291	It's been solved." He says, but he has to answer correctly.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0281par0292	He doesn't have to answer the way you want him to, Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0280par0293	But it shouldn't, sir. It's been solved." He says, "What has been solved?"
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0281par0294	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0295	I don't know exactly right now, but it was resolved during my Ministry of Internal Affairs, and he was walking normally, so hopefully he'll walk like that again.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0280par0296	Why did you forbid it last year?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0297	Here, the issue of the dam to political parties... and in my speech, I've introduced him, the valued MPs, of course, he should be seriously working between our parties here. I mean, we have three alternatives, but there may be other alternatives. So 10 percent of the dam is not an app that we brought in, so we gave in to it, with this...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0283par0298	But you can't argue with that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0299	But right now, there could be 5%, there could be zero dams, and there could be other offers from other parties. That's still...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0283par0300	No, let's talk about it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0301	We got it, look...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0283par0302	He's not here.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0303	When this package was announced -- when our prime minister announced it on September 30th -- there were three alternatives. In a sense, we've submitted it to political parties, and it's still in that brochure. So, a little bit of his argument didn't develop, if it had spontaneously evolved, but right now, we're ready.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0283par0304	Then bring it, it'll be understood by political parties.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0305	So about the election dam -- at least more than a year before the general election -- our political parties, I'm saying here, let our groups work on it. We're ready for that.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0284par0306	Now let's work.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0307	So we brought three alternatives...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0285par0308	We already have an offer.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0309	You can also bring a fourth alternative.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0286par0310	Let's talk right now.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0285par0311	We offered, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0312	All parties have to solve this together. So it would be wrong to bring it to us -- in other matters -- like this one right here, the dam is going to be like this. It would be wrong to bring it to us. We can only discuss it here. I mean, we tried to get into that argument.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0285par0313	No, it'll be solved in a week if you're sincere.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0287par0314	Let's make it three.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0315	Now, why are you against the main language in public? Look, valued MPs, I mean, we work on these things sincerely. To protect our country's unity, integrity, and to view all differences as wealth, to respect all differences, to cherish all values together; that is the goal of all of us. I mean, in this society, you really have to build that brotherhood and make sure that everyone has the right and the law. Believe me, we've searched everywhere in the world -- I can send that book to whoever wants it -- so countries with multiple official languages, in most countries with one official language, but with different practices in education, they usually start at one private school first. But in practice, there were some who asked, "What is a private school?" -- a speaker -- private school, elementary school, middle school, upper secondary school -- that is secondary school. College doesn't go in that thing anyway.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0285par0316	Why not?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0317	Now, usually in practice, we've already brought native language in formal schools.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0288par0318	Choosing.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0319	I mean, in a school, if students are going to learn the language, I'm going to learn the language. If they're going to open a special class for them. This applies to all major languages now: Kurdish, Zazaca, Arabic, whichever is right, and the mother tongue is very valuable. So let the government teach the native language, but education, private education, education language is something different, friends, so it takes a lot of overtime. It's easy to talk, it's easy to talk, but you can't find an easy solution when you think about a lot of the size of college education, employment and so on. So, it says here: "Are you real?" We are sincere in solving these problems. I mean, multicolored, all of them, all of our national unity, all of our colors, all of our integrity, we want it, but we want it, but let's maintain integrity. I mean, it's not easy to get it all at once, and everyone has to be sincere about it. I mean, here -- you asked about the election dam, I just told you -- we all have to think about the truth. So, if this Parliament, if the parties are offering different solutions here, we're open to discussion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0289par0321	We propose solutions, bring them, three, five. We recommend it, and BDP recommends it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0322	And then there's the question, the 14th article, the fulfilment of religious belief, the obstruction, here's the prayer... friends, that's not it. Look, there was already a punishment for religious freedom and obstruction in that clause before, and it was brought here only individual, individual. I mean, that's important too, or every institution has its own applications. All of these freedoms come after those institutions' own practices, and I want to express them. About the D.A.'s on December 17th, that's exactly what I'd like to tell you about, in fact, in information, I could misinformation. It's Mr. Yilmaz. Now, friends, let me just say in the remaining one and a half minutes that, of course, there are one or two things mentioned here in the talks, and to avoid taking any promises.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0290par0325	Mr. Secretary, I asked the first question, you didn't answer.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0326	So there's no democratisation in Turkey, Turkey hasn't changed at all, so there's no value to this package. I mean, sometimes I'm surprised. They don't know old Turkey at all, they've lived the old Turkey. When you say old Turkey: there are tortures, there are unsolveds, there are mass killings, there are taboos, there are bans. Guys, why are we denying where we came from? Please, please...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0291par0327	It's not enough, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0328	We need more, we always do.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0291par0329	We want more, we want more.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0330	But Turkey has changed a lot, not the old Turkey.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0291par0331	But the world has changed.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0332	In these eleven years, the bans, the taboos are gone, we're talking about everything.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0291par0333	Minister, the world has changed, the world.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0334	And with these conversations, we're gonna go to great places, I promise you that, we're gonna go to good places.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0291par0335	If you're sincere.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0336	As long as we catch the ground where there's no violence, where everything's talked about in politics.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0291par0337	But the meeting, you limit the parade march, you limit the freedoms.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0282par0338	Look, then we'll come to a very different place. I thank you very much, Mr. President, dear lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0292par0340	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0293par0341	It's not over yet, Mr. Secretary. Answer my question, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0292par0342	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0294par0343	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit04spe0292par0344	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I hereby submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0295par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision to vote on the amendments of the Law Bill 559. Now, I'm going to re-offer the bill to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who do not accept... there are enough decisions to pass on to their substances. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first chapter covers 1 to 10. Suleiman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, has asked for a speech on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0296par0011	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, the events that began after the unrest in Ukraine were claimed to have spread to the Crimean autonomy area, the presidential building had been occupied, and the Russian flag had been drawn into the building. Crimea has always been remembered in our recent history in pain and tears. I would like to remind you that the government must be very sensitive in order to ensure that the exiles and genocides of the past century never happen again. Dear friends, I have been promised to explain the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the first part of the bill, known as the "democratisation package". Dear friends, are you paying attention, the process of making laws, the technique of making laws, particularly the 24th term, has been paralyzed by the AKP. There are years when the General Assembly has forgotten the process of making a normal law in the Constitution and the Civil Code. The laws that come in are now considered either the basic law or the bag in the form of law. This is a clear violation of the rights of opposition or of the nation's rule of control law. The opposition should not speak at all if possible, but if he does, he is a manifestation of his will to speak less. It's a very important law. The Constitution is a law that pushes the boundaries of the state and sovereignty laid out in Turkey. Is he in a hurry? It shouldn't be. And that's clearly what this argument is about, whether this law should be discussed before or after the local elections. If it was an emergency, this discussion wouldn't have happened. But as I said, the government is in a hurry. Prior to the March 30 elections, it appears that we are dealing with the implementation of the political statements he gave to the PKK during the Oslo talks, the laws, the provisions of the law. Thus, it is a bill that serves the democratisation of Turkey, not the expansion of freedoms, but the politicalisation of the PKK. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we said the government is in a hurry. Because the law stipulates changes in the Law on the Law on Political Parties Law, Meeting and Show Marches, Foreign Language and Teaching, Turkish Penal Code, State Administration Law, Social Aid and Solidarity Foundation. But the Plan Budget Commission had to be heard, run as a secondary commission, because it contained financial provisions in these law talks, including Internal Affairs, Justice, National Education, Family, Health and Social Affairs and Labour Commission. Since the commissions were run smoothly during the AKP period, the commissions were not asked or taken from them. Our work is very, very difficult to discuss. The bill was clearly against the Constitution, both in commissions and in the General Assembly. That's right, when we look at the conditions for the Constitutional Court to be taken here, I want to say that 1/5 of the Nisab, in fact, needs to be reconsidered. Congressmans, this law is considered the basic law, but it's also a bag of laws because it includes five or six laws. There are fellow lawyers among you, and I really wonder if this is out of control, that the House is being taken in a very undignified direction, that they really don't see it, and I'm asking, who does this arrangement involve democratic improvements? There are some improvements, such as the removal of the obligation to establish agencies in the region, meeting and demonstration walks, taking the common mind to determine the squares and routes. However, dear friends, this draft includes regulations that are contrary to the Constitution, the national and unitary state structure. Separate them from each other, and put the will of the entire General Assembly behind the provisions we shall agree upon, and bring the others in a separate arrangement. So let every party stand, their words, their words be clear. Here we have Bartin MP Yilmaz Bey returning to the opposition. Here, you don't support us, we do it alone. You mix the poison with the honey, and you want us to eat it. Look, you'll see that when you take these away, you'll see that a lot of plans, a lot of proposals, maybe they've been spent in agreement. When we look at the first article of the bill, it approves that political propaganda can be done with different languages and dialects as well as with Turkish. It is clear that the country's sovereignty is intended to be taken from the nation's foundations and brought to ethnic foundations, and that only local speakers can be elected representatives in certain areas, while others will have little chance of having a chance, which will undermine the quality of representing Turkey after it has been elected, and will now become regional representatives instead of Turkey's MPs. The issue of co-chairing parties in Article 2 shall live by the regulations of political parties, which, in effect, there is no obstacle to the current legislation. Abolishment of the obligation to organise a town in Article 3 will bring some ease to political life and political organisation. The expansion of funds to political parties to parties that have received minimum 3 per cent of the vote is a party's demand, as it is known. It is a matter that I find very meaningful, that the issue should be brought up during a process of ongoing negotiations with the government's terrorist organisation and in the shadow of the local elections, and that they should not be discussed before. All countries are known for their undivisable integrity and the existence of their constitutional systems, which are expressed as a right to countries in the United Nations contracts. No state can allow a freak like the claim to receive financial aid and eliminate the constitutional system and the country, its nation, its indivisible integrity. It is also a tragic contradiction that a party that sees terrorism as the instrument of politics and expresss its opinion many times after its democracy. If such expansion is foreseen, at least a mechanism should be established, such as that it should be supervised by the Constitutional Court each year, with the basic principles and framework set forth in the Constitution. In the 5th, 6th article, the establishment of meetings and demonstration walks is determined by the common mind, sir, and the duration of the permit for closed space meetings is 23. 24 out of 00. It is foreseen to be increased to 100. The joint determination -- the friends at the Republican People's Party just told us -- is actually a incomplete recognition. When you take their opinion and leave the decision to govern the property, you just put the property on the back of the will, so I don't think it has anything to do with democratization, it has anything to do with liberation. It's a palatative step, 23. 24 out of 00. And up to 100, because when you look at the application, local units are showing this flexibility. In addition, since you have not brought into consideration the European Union practices, such as non-violent meetings, demonstrations, and walking completely out of the way, as I said, these are palliative steps. It's a good arrangement to have the institution's emblem and logo on pictures and photographs taken by law enforcement forces. Because I think rights violations will be avoided. It is not the first time that we have encountered a number of things that are not good for the country and the nation, by spreading certain rights and freedoms that do not fill the fig core into the improvements of the people to bring them before the Assembly. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Classic AKP political maneuvers. Therefore, I say that we do not favor this bill, we do not vote positively, and I salute the High Assembly, which includes entrapment provisions for the national union.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0297par0030	Thank you. Akif Hamzacebi, İstanbul MP who asked for the Republican People's Party Group to speak on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0298par0033	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the bill's name is very good: It's a bill of law on the development of several laws with the aim of improving basic rights and freedoms. In his speech on behalf of the government, Mr. Secretary said that the aim of this bill was to expand the individual's freedom zone, but when we look at the bill, we see that, on the contrary, the state, the government, has increased its power over the individual, except for a few minor regulations. When we look at the historical development of the Constitutions, we see two elements emerge. In the beginning, when the constitutions, the establishment of the state, the relations between the institutions of the state, the administration, the judiciary, the legislative body, are in the context of the text that regulates the functioning of them, in the following dates, especially in the second half of the 20th century, we see that the constitutions have been transformed into text that protects the rights and freedoms of the individual against the state, which is very important. Now, the main feature of the constitutions is expanding the individual's freedom across the state, preventing the government from interfering with its freedoms, because the state is now the institution tasked with protecting freedoms, but it is the greatest force that can interfere with the individual's freedom field. Now, when we look at this bill in this framework, we don't see the arrangement here. For example, the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations is against our Constitution and against the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. This was presented to the public as the opening of the meeting and demonstration march, supposedly in the Law of Meetings and Demonstrations. On September 30, 2013, the Prime Minister held a press conference in the form of "What will the package of democratisation be?" That press conference lasted a total of 65 minutes -- 40 minutes of general sentences, general assessments, and there was a 25-minute presentation on the contents of the package, so the polish part of the job, the narrative part of it, was more important than the content, just like this bill. The arrangements for freedom in it are very few. I'm telling you now about the Convention and Demonstration March Act. Three restrictions are brought here that are not in the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations: First, the meeting or demonstration march will not break the public order; second, it will not break the general order; third, it will not make the daily lives of citizens difficult. When you place these three elements, you're preventing a meeting and demonstration march. The Prime Minister explained, Mr. Minister explains; there will be commissions under the governor's leadership; there will be representatives of civil society; there will be representatives of political parties; this commission will decide where the meeting and demonstration will take place, but the governor will make the final decision again, and the governor will only take their opinion. Now I'd like to tell you about a decision by the European Court of Human Rights on Turkey. DİSK and KESK filed a lawsuit against the European Court of Human Rights on May 1st, regarding the failure to accept, limiting their requests to perform at the Summit on May 1st. The European Court of Human Rights ruled Turkey on November 27, 2012, and condemned Turkey, saying it was wrong to comply. The European Court of Human Rights says that meeting and marching are part of freedom of expression. Thus, if you limit it, you limit freedom of speech, freedom of thought. This is a very basic rule, and this bill has neglected it. Again, part of the meeting and demonstration march, undisputedly, is the choice of venue. I mean, where's the meeting gonna take place? The choice is for the people who are going to hold that meeting. You're going to say: Is this an unlimited right? The Court of Human Rights says that every meeting and demonstration has something to do with public life, which is very normal. But, on the other hand, those who want to do that meeting and show walk have what we call a memory right. So, as far as May 1, 1977, the square is a symbol of a tragic event due to the death of 37 people in that square. The European Court of Human Rights respects this concept and acknowledges that these people have the right to perform there, says it's very natural. He says that memory rights require this, and because of the use of this right, public service may fail in Payum Square, general life may fail, and I'm detecting that. Now, what does this bill bring with it, with its regulations on the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations? He arranges that the division square should be closed to a meeting and demonstration march again, and they will not be allowed. So, with these arrangements, this is a revenge package against Gezil, not anything else, but freedom. The government is afraid of the squares. However, authoritarian governments, status quo governments fear the squares because the squares bring together people who have never been together, just as they did in Gezi, rightist-left, conservative-modern, heads of heads, heads of heads of heads of heads, under all these concepts, who we call them, have joined together at another request in Salam Square of May 1st Square: Freedom. All the masses gathered there for freedom. Mr. Prime Minister, instead of opening the way for the freedom-seeking masses, instead of offering them packages that would really bring them freedom, on the contrary, he is preparing to shut down the Zombie Square for 1 May and all the squares of Turkey to the demonstrators, and this preparation came here with this bill. It's impossible to accept. These regulations violate democracy, human rights, freedom of expression, freedom of thought. Those who fear the squares cannot prepare a package of democratization. When security forces used violence on the people in the area, my police wrote a heroic epic. On the other hand, if they are holding back a favor from God to the people who lost their lives in those events, that understanding would not bring democracy to Turkey, nor would it bring freedom to freedom. And because of the fact that meeting and paraders are going to disrupt public life, even if a city bus flight fails, the punishment for them will be increased here, banning. And I'll tell you this: Taksim Square is being greenened. There was a story in the newspapers that the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality was involved in such an activity. It has nothing to do with it, it's to shut down the square under the name of greenening. Now, is it possible for someone with a sense of reckoning with the Zodiac Square to bring a package of democracy? It's not. The election arrangements, see, the election dam stands at 10 per cent. Mr. Prime Minister, in his presentation on the democratic package of September 30, 2013,
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0299par0045	Let us know what you suggest.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0298par0046	Our proposal is clear, 3%; the dam is 3%. You are, however, afraid to come to 3% and to come to 3%. The Prime Minister said, "Let's keep the 10 per cent dam. Let's separate Turkey from the 550 electoral district."
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0299par0048	Okay. Are you in?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0298par0049	..or a narrowed-down, man-to-man electoral zone.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0299par0050	Come on, you guys up for it? You're out.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0298par0051	So let me take back what I lost when I lowered the 10 per cent election dam with a narrowed-down area of fives.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0299par0052	We're removing the dam, dam zero, zero.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0298par0053	Come, this is Private Square. Our dam offer is 3%, but you can't make it. Now, you're organizing a treasure fund for political parties. At the moment, the party, which currently receives 7 per cent of the vote, is given this help, and you reduce it to 3 per cent, but the dam stands at 10 per cent. So you're saying that the government says: "Take the money, don't make a sound, sit down." Is that acceptable? And why don't you do this: I mean, in elections, people can enter Parliament independently and then form a group. Why is that? So if a political party group has been in the House for two years, three years, four years, why shouldn't it be worth the help of the treasure? If it's democracy, let's do it. In short, the package has nothing to do with democratisation, expanding human rights and freedoms. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yeah, I'm out of time. I give you my regards.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0300par0061	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd just like to say a few words from here to the record.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0301par0062	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0300par0063	Mr. Speaker, you're afraid of the Meydan. I guess they haven't seen the rally sites in the last two or three days. We're in the square every day, whether it's an election or not, we're in the square with our deputies or members of the force. I want them to watch the sea square in particular today. It's never been carried...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0302par0064	It's not a montage.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0300par0065	It was just a rally for the people of that area. I invite them to see these squares and join us in celebrating. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0303par0068	Dear Line, thank you. We're on the General Assembly every day. Now, it is Erol Dora, Mardin MP who wants to speak on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0304par0072	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Party of Peace and Democracy on part one of the First Amendment on the Development of Basic Rights and Freedoms 559 rows. I salute the General Assembly. In the first article of the bill, any propaganda by political parties and candidates can be done in Turkish as well as in different languages and dialects. A change in the form of a change is foreseen. In summary, it says: "O people, you will be able to listen to the meetings of MPs or mayor candidates who come to you for votes every four years in general elections and every five years in local elections in other languages besides Turkish." Secondly, there will be a front for them to make written statements in Kurdish, Lazca, Arabic, Turkish, and other languages, which parties will probably print in the elections. But the tragedy is that a large number of voters will not be able to read the written texts printed in these languages. Why? Because the majority of people can only speak and understand what is spoken in these languages, but because the ability to read and write and study in these languages is prohibited by the state, most citizens are unable to read and write in their native language. Therefore, there will be no actual response to the arrangement. A language can only be liberated when education, teaching, and all kinds of scientific and decent activities can be opened up in that language. There is no direct contribution to giving a blessing in giving a permit for election propaganda in a language. Dear lawmakers, Article 2 of the bill and the co-chair system, which our party has already implemented for years, are being legalized. One of the most important indicators of representation in democracies is, without a doubt, the equality of opportunity for gender. As all of you have followed, our party is successfully implementing co-chair practice not only at the party's presidential level, but in all the other governing bodies of the party. Finally, both the Peace and Democracy Party and the Peoples' Democratic Party are implementing co-Mayorship in all municipal mayors in the upcoming local elections. Thus, we see this bill, which is presented as a democratic package, is a positive, but rather inadequate arrangement for women's rights and the principles of universal democracy, in which the co-chair implementation is confined only to the party's presidency. This and similar approaches, which still perceive politics as a man's job, also indicate that understandings that speak of democracy but do not give the woman the right to govern. However, not only on the level of parties, but on all government bodies of the state, the joint presidential system must be implemented. Dear lawmakers, the fourth article of the bill is a provision that organises the assistance the political parties will receive from the treasure. More than 3 per cent of all valid votes will also be granted state assistance in the country's national elections. First of all, a 3% rate in general elections is not a standard that we can support as a party to help the parties with the treasure. Parties that receive less than 3 per cent of the vote are asked to be punished. Thus, voters of these parties are also wanted to be punished. The right way to do so is to give fair and square funds to parties entering the elections. The bill does not include an arrangement for political parties, whose group is in parliament, who entered the elections independently and joined under the roof of a post-election political party. Clearly, an arrangement offering the elections as a condition to enter under the roof of a party does not provide a positive contribution to democracy. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are also an example of the election dam in the general election. It is not a fair way to build high dams for the political representation of parties if it is the collective savings of the entire community and it is created by the contributions of all communities. Dear lawmakers, some amendments to the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations are envisioned in the five, six, seven, eight, nine, and ten. The right to freedom of meeting and demonstration march is one of the most fundamental elements of the democratic state of law. This right is also one of the most important tools of freedom of expression. In all democratic and legal countries, it has been guaranteed that the right to perform and march can be used to express a thought, publish, or react. The Constitution of the Republic of Turkey also has an arrangement for that right. According to the Constitution, everyone has the right to hold an unarmed and non-aggressive meeting and demonstration march without prior permission. Although the right to demonstration and march is one of the most basic human rights, Turkey is often banned by political will and often blocked by law enforcement in accordance with laws, decrees and regulations that constitute violations of the Constitution and universal law. Dear MPs, the bill mentions arrangements for a couple of hours of extensions during meetings and demonstration walks. The hours of meetings and demonstrations can also be kept unlimited if requested. But that's not the main part of the matter that we think is important. What matters is how the government's law enforcement is positioned in the face of these demonstrations when individuals and collective communities want to show their reaction to a subject. For example, how do law enforcement forces react in a 15-minute press release with a very short deadline? First, it is necessary to review it. Therefore, the problem of meeting and demonstration walks is not about the shortness of its time, but about the extent of the police's authority to use violence and weapons. The main laws governing this authority are the Law on Police Duty 2559 and the Law on Rights and Anti-Terrorism 3713. Precious lawmakers stress that governments have a negative obligation on the use of international law, legitimate demonstration rights, that non-violent acts of peaceful protests can not be stopped by governments in any way unless they include attacks, harming, algebra and violence, unless they clearly violate public order. In Turkey, the use of pressured water, plastic bullets, chemical weapons, demonstration control agents in peaceful demonstrations has increased greatly compared to previous years. The European Union's Progress Report in 2013, where Turkish lawmakers are behind European standards on gathering and demonstration rights and the intervention of security forces and implementing them, has also been made clear in the 2013 European Union Progress Report. The width of the police's gun use increases the possibility of life-right violations, so it is a mandate that must be restricted. In addition, this practice violates the 9th Article of the principle of the Law enforcement Force, which was adopted by the United Nations in 1990. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are one of the key factors in repetitive human rights violations, whether the crimes against the police are ever prosecuted or not enough. The bill, which is present, has been prepared to ignore the problems that continue to hurt. It is important to remember that if all autonomy and freedoms of individuals and people are being achieved, if the people can really manage and own their own destiny, and if individual and collective rights can be freely used, then it can only be said that a regime is truly democratic. Indeed, there are partial arrangements in these recent arrangements, but it says that there are more steps to be taken at the point of Turkey's real democratisation and liberation, and with those feelings, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0305par0086	Thank you. Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin, has asked for a personal word on the matter.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0306par0088	Mr. Nevzat Don't be afraid...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0305par0089	Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0307par0091	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you again. I'm here to give a speech on chapter one on behalf of myself. At the end of my speech earlier, I pointed out that the Justice and Development Party is doing these kind of political maneuvers from time to time, and unfortunately, by bringing together some things that might benefit the public and some issues that might ruin the people's future, a very painful pill, to make it easy for the nation to be surrounded by sweeteners. That's what this bill is all about. As I just said, the classic AKP political maneuver, how do I go around the back with national will? Now, of course, why do we object to that, dear friends? There's a priority to this. The National Movement Party read the Oslo talks, the transcripts in the Oslo talks, and saw what a sack was intended for Turkey's head. Look, I'd like to briefly remind you that under special instructions from Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, then Deputy Prime Minister Hakan Fidan, and then Deputy Undersecretary of Üstı, are meeting with Deputy Director of MİT Sun on behalf of the PKK terrorist organization Mustafa Karasu, European representative Sabri Ok and Zübeyir Aydar are meeting with him in Oslo. In this meeting, the words of the Undersecretary of the MIT Hakan Fidan Τ say that 10,000 teachers are taken every year in the public archives. You take the man, and there's a lack of teachers in the southeast -- he wants to go next year; four years, five years, he wants to go west. Why? I don't have good living conditions there. Five years ago, the government said: "We pass the law of local governments, we remove the local organizations of certain things, National Education, these are, these are, we remove their ministries, we give them to governors and municipalities. He will first go to governorships and municipalities in the long term. We could not do so. So, twice he turned down the President, took him to the Constitutional Court, then he stayed. So, in fact, the Justice and Development Party has been after such dreams and dreams since it first came to power. It seems that's how he is. It's clear that the government no longer denies these negotiations. At first, they attempted to deny it, we didn't meet, the government met, the institutions of the state discussed it. They said, "Now the Prime Minister himself and the ministers also say, "We are seeing each other." But sometimes he says: "If it's a difficult issue, the state has spoken." He says, "But if there's something in the region that he can bond and do political abuse, these are the things that we've done, we've done it, we've done it." Dear friends, since there's already been political negotiations with the PKK, the state forces and the PKK don't seem to be fighting there right now, but that doesn't mean it's over. Everyone knows that's not the case. Why would he attack? A number of issues he's been dreaming of for 35 years, which he can't quite make happen, are now being brought to the floor by the ruling party, which is being put into effect. The PKK has raised the bar now. The PKK speaks of democratic autonomy. I mean, the deaf sultan has heard all these speeches now, but the Prime Minister or Minister of the Interior, in charge of providing peace and order, has no answer. There's a parallel structure that's holding, and now it's moving on. We're sitting in parallel structures, we're taking off parallel structures. There are two parallel structures that I see. One of them is in the Justice and Development Party. 300 MPs from 320 here came here to serve, just like the other MPs, but about 20 to 25 -- I don't know this number -- they came here to run their own ships. See, there's a parallel structure inside the AKP. We're always saying to those 300 friends, "Do you have to take responsibility for them? Look, it's a parallel structure. The second parallel structure is the PKK-KCK structure, in the region. There's work to build a state, to build a state structure. Look, be careful, Mr. Prime Minister, when he sees both of these structures, he stops talking. The only thing he wants to go through right now is the service class. Dear friends, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0308par0101	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0309par0102	Mr. President, I have to take this again.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0308par0103	Mr. Secretary already asked for a word. I think he will, Mr. Line.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0309par0104	But I have to answer that on behalf of my fellow lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0308par0105	Mr. Secretary asked for a word, Mr. Line.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0309par0106	If you'll excuse me, I have to fix it on behalf of my fellow lawmakers. 20 MPs are here for their own ship. That's a terrible sentence, I condemn him. We are here with representatives of the people to meet the demands of our people. All of our MPs are here for the same goal. I repeat, I condemn him.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0310par0110	Yes, thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have a request. Here's a brief statement from your position.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0311par0113	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to correct one or two of the issues that our esteemed MPs have pointed out in their speech. First, it's about the recent talks that Mr. Korkmaz has expressed. I mean, let me rephrase to our dear friends how there are interviews. In talks in the solution process, you know, our National Intelligence Agency is conducting talks with the group, the Imralı, and we are interviewing the political sector as ourselves as a political and government division, and we want the political sector to play a much more constructive role in this. Our BDP friends go to İmralı and conduct other talks, and we meet with them. I mean, in the meantime, of course, it's going to work out with interviews. So if we're going to solve these problems... every country's made these calls when they solve these problems. Of course, our parties here should look a little bit like that when our groups approach problems. And secondly, this meeting, it's about our friends, about the parade. Look, what we're talking about here, dear friends, isn't a press release. Look, every day, go, there's a press release at Sakarya Street, Ankara, especially on Saturdays.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0312par0119	They ate gas tonight.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0311par0120	It's just for big meetings and rallies, so we're not just talking about Istanbul here. Look, I gave the Ankara sample. Sit down, friends, and let's talk about our city's meeting. Isn't it reasonable for him to say that? We've got friends from the estate.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0313par0121	Who makes the final decision?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0311par0122	I mean, it's wrong to take them out like this, of course, of course. Look, in Ankara, I gave you an example, and everyone knows there are several squares. But, I mean, they'll have the banner all the way to the House, sir, Sakarya Street, they're separate. I mean, I want to express it. And here's the Republican People's Party spokesman, so that's the package? I can offer it to you. The package our Prime Minister explained is a very large package. Some of it is administrative savings, like clothing freedom, and so on and so forth; some of it is independent laws -- the future -- like the protection of personal data. There's only part of it here. I specifically wanted to present him. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0314par0125	Yes, thank you. Sakine Öz, MP of Manisa, who has asked for a personal word on the department.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0315par0128	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on my own behalf on the bill of law, which eliminates freedom and justice, which claims to reform democracy. I salute the High Council. In our country, we are living on an agenda where an execution that has lost its existence with documents of corruption, theft, bribery, which has lost its existence, not the law, but the patching body of parliament. We discuss the package of democratisation at a time when a party that is busy in the search for freedom and justice on the trip continues to reset money to different groups of our society, whose identity is clearly discriminated against by a party that rubs the backs of those who do not know the limits of violence and justice on our youth. We're discussing the AKP's package for election investment, which has been carefully avoiding democracy and freedom. Members of parliament, as we walk away from the principle of living with a democratic and fair country every day, we wrestle the number of arrested students, journalists, scientists and soldiers around the world. On one hand, former ministers and Reza Zarrab have violated the justice that society is waiting for, and Recep Erdogan is happy to meet his own justice. There's a very clear fact: this bill is far from the 17-point package of democracy that we've announced in the past months. No package that doesn't drop the election dam can talk about democracy and freedom of expression, which can't attract 5 per cent. A government that's remembered with boxes can't afford democracy and justice with fancy packages. We offered to provide treasure assistance to a party that received 1 per cent of the vote, but the AKP has limited its ranks to the party that received 3 per cent of the vote, continuing to turn its back on the community forces it branded marginal, and the nation has already given up its will. Dear lawmakers, our citizens, who are openly discriminated against different religions, sects and views in our country, have lost more and more opportunities to take fair and equal advantage of public services, take office in the state, and rise in this administration. Erdoğan's words, which included hate crimes in the squares, made it clear the government's stand against freedom and democracy as they spoke behind the back of our young people who lost their lives on the trip. The government, which has largely ignored the Aleki's demands and demands and refrained from giving equal service to the religion, has turned its back on the demands of water and bridges, which are the most natural rights in the villages of Alevi. This attitude is a clear proof of the injustice of our ministry and faith, a concrete example of mocking the Alekis in their supposed minds. It's a dry imagination to expect from this package, given the fact that it's not a belief or a sect close to the government, because it belongs to a different ethnic identity, that it's destroyed, that it's excluded from public service, that it's kept away from public services, that their names are tagged, that their homes are marked, and that they're ethnically identified. Members of parliament, when the speech of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who defies our age, our gender, our ethnic identity, our sects, our color, our language, our number of children, whether we wear or not, our life choices, our sizes, even our civilized circumstances, is not expected of democracy or justice from this government. While the government's practices, which defame its young resisters, fucking atheists and terrorists, are in the middle, there will be no meaning in the name of the package of democratisation when justice and freedom are completely on the shelf. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0316par0136	Thank you. The question-answer process will take 15 minutes. Mr. Köse... no. Mr. Nazlıaka...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0317par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we'd like to ask you again a question that we've been asking, but we haven't been able to answer: Is there an investigation into Bilal Erdogan? What's his motive?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0316par0142	Thank you. Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0318par0144	Mr. Secretary, I just asked the question, but you said that I was the Minister of the Interior of that time, and that's when I released the May 1st division area. We've been dealing with you at the time, and we've eaten the most gas bombs by being thrown into the DİSK building during your time, you remember him. Now, I'm asking the question: May 1st in two months; will the division be opened according to the European Court of Human Rights? That's my first question. My second question is: An operation has started again today: gas bombs are being dropped on citizens in Ankara, who have acted against theft, against poverty. On the one hand, this law is being discussed, and it's being called democratization. In your idea of democratization, will gas bombs, pressure water, and similar oppression continue? That's what I'm asking.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0319par0147	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0320par0149	Mr. President, thank you. The question is to the Minister. Mr. Minister, especially the democratic opening, we're going to create a new public-based Turkey... social, political, economic... all the time, he says. Now, when I say these things -- there have been people who have said that in the past -- the situation of Crimea is obvious. Recent developments in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. We'd appreciate some information on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0321par0153	Thank you. Mr. Ozturk... no. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0322par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, Article 6 of Law 2911 states the location and route of the meeting and demonstration march. According to this, the location of the meeting is preferred in the direction of the meeting, where the meetings are held in general -- not to disturb security and not to prevent the establishment of the markets -- I draw attention -- that is the constraint. We're looking at the change you've brought in, and you're saying that the change you've brought in the public order, not to disrupt the general order and not to make the daily lives of citizens difficult, and as long as the restrictions mentioned in Article One of Article 22 are observed, so the change you've brought in is more severe than before. However, can it be seen as an expression of your sincerity, calling it the Law for the Development of Basic Rights and Freedoms?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0321par0158	Thank you. Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0323par0160	The US administration announced its annual human rights report on February 27, 2014, in 2013. The report, seen as the part of Turkey rose from 48 pages to 51 pages this year, was marked by the government's extreme violence and the incident following the 17 December bribery operation, and the US government described what emerged after the December 17th operation as "scandal." What is your approach and comment on the US administration's assessment of corruption as "scandal"?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0321par0161	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0324par0163	Mr. Secretary, you've released the use of the non-in Turkish letters, "x," "q," "w"). Under this law, the Article 222 of the Turkish Penal Code is lifted and the penalty for those who act against the prohibitions imposed by the Law on Acceptance and Exercise of Turkish Letters has been lifted. This clause protects the 174th article of our Constitution. This clause maintains the revolutionary laws aimed at bringing Turkish society above the level of modern civilization and maintaining the secularity of the Republic of Turkey. I have two questions for you. One: What do you intend to do if you are not enemies of Turkish? Number two, are you prepping to lift the secularism? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0325par0166	Thank you. Mr. Sour...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0326par0168	Thank you. Mr. President, I feel the need to repeat a question that I presented eight months ago but was not answered with the request of my Deputy Prime Minister to answer it. In the June 10th 2013 issue of the entity newspaper, what is the protocol for the national intelligence agency and the National Ministry of Education and the National Intelligence Agency and the Tapu General Directorate, and for which, between the National Intelligence Agency and the Turkish Airways and PTT administration, to transfer personal type of data from these institutions during normal transactions to MIT, and what is the purpose if it is signed? If such a protocol exists, when did it begin, and how many people have been transferred to the MIT? Thank you. Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0327par0172	Mr. Atalay, it's a right from the Civil Code to ask you questions, and it's an obligation from the Civil Code to answer you, but unfortunately you and the other ministers are not answering these questions, and we ask these questions about our private affairs or personal affairs with you. I just asked you four questions, you didn't answer, and you didn't say you'd report it in writing. Is there an investigation against Bilal Erdogan? Has an MIT report on Reza Zarrab been filed and given to the Prime Minister and the government months earlier? Did he move in cash on planes assigned to the Prime Minister abroad? Are there government members seeking asylum from Malaysia? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0328par0178	Thank you. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0329par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we discussed this in the Commission. There is a declaration in the meeting and demonstration march of the 6th article, where political parties, representatives of the province and the district, and the mayors of the district, and representatives of the trade union will be taken. At the end of this announcement, it appears that the governor is in charge. If the governor is a decision maker in this matter, we believe this consultation does not matter. What is your opinion on this, as a result of a vote, the emergence of real will by a vote? I'd like to know how you feel about that. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0330par0183	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0331par0185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, I've just said, once again, as a person who's been most upset about this -- this package of democratization has just been told by our Group Vice President -- are they going to act in the meadow after this? We want to know this very clearly because with this bill, in fact, this process is meant to be hidden from the community, moved to another place, and brought to a place of obligation. I want to know this clearly: is there a place in the meadow to celebrate in the pit? And those who want to exercise their democratic rights -- tonight -- will the use of these rights of friends be even more restricted by this law? I want a very clear answer. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0332par0188	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0333par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. It's about questions, of course, and I've just told you here, things like Bilal Erdogan aren't the issues that I can and can't answer right now. I just answered about May 1st. The issue of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is, of course, a broad issue, but I think he means the final negotiation process. So in relations with the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, of course, the Republic of Turkey is always with Northern Cyprus. You know the financial protocols, the deal goes through here. So we're implementing a three-year economic development programme, and right now Turkey's annual support for it is over $1 billion, about 1 billion 100. We've raised it a little bit every year in the time of our governments. In fact, the water project is about to be completed, so from Anamur to the other side, the dams are completed, and the pipes are laid, and hopefully, in March, their dams will be finished, and in September, water will start to flow. We're working on the inside distribution project. There's an energy project. So the electricity will also go out of Turkey. We, in fact, as Turkey... the electricity and water connection will have a very important impact on Ada. Of course, if an equal, fair system is established there in the future -- one state, two-sided -- Turkey will have the upper hand of the Turkish side, the Turkish side. If not, then the Turkish side will have huge advantages. In fact, we conduct our work on Cyprus in this framework. As for the negotiation process: you know, right now Turkey and Greece have taken part in this, and the European Union has a more positive outlook, so they see that this will no longer work. When we went to Brussels with the Prime Minister on January 21st, this was very much discussed. There's an international edition of the United Nations here right now. I mean, it's a new development. The negotiators, you know, the Turkish negotiator went to Greece yesterday, the negotiator from Cyprus came to us, and these work are going on, but it doesn't look like he's going very fast. That's what I'm getting from myself, frankly, the President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Of course, a lot can be said about Cyprus, but let me make the other questions brief. There are questions about the meeting, the demonstration march, Mr. Serindağ, your other friends. Dear friends, I've expressed it before, so there's no such thing as a meeting, or a parade walk, or too out of town, or anything like that. Up until now, the governor, my governor, he's been setting himself up, delivering, and now he's calling on the elders of the city, and he's conferring with them. It's an important contribution, let me put it this way, they decide together. I don't really understand what it's like to see something negative here. I gave the Ankara sample. I mean, of course we don't want to ruin the peace of society. I mean, we don't want to take a walk and break windows or anything. Everybody have a free meeting, make a sound...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0334par0199	We're talking peaceful meetings.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0333par0200	We're doing it, and we're having a rally, so the ruling party is doing it, and it's not just the opposition's job, it's a meeting, it's a demonstration march. So you can't...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0334par0201	Just don't think about it in terms of parties.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0333par0202	I mean, everyone sees what's being brought here when we look at it reasonably, but if we get a critical look, we can say different things.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0335par0203	This is the September 12th law, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0334par0204	Back from September 12th, back. What law!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0333par0205	Of course, there's laws here about the laws of the lingo, the letters and the hat. We're taking them out of practice anyway. In everyday life, we also use these letters to reject such things as enemies in Turkish. So our native language is Turkish, our official language. And I don't think that's the kind of thing you'd call Parliament. It's easier for us to tell you things like that, but we don't.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0335par0206	How will you protect the Constitution 174?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0333par0207	Therefore, I consider such questions to be shameful.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0335par0208	What about the Constitution 174, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0333par0209	Mr. Sour, to be honest, I don't know. I'm in no position to answer your question. Mr. Erdoğdu, here's the zerrab, there's the other stuff that I don't know about, and it's not about our design here.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0336par0211	Isn't that the truth of Turkey?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0333par0212	So you're asking me about other things in general, and I can't say anything about them right now.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0337par0213	We asked about the bill, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0338par0214	Let's ask what you want, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0333par0215	As I have just told Mr. Bayraktutan, it is a good thing that a governor -- the governor of Krikkale, my district of elections -- calls the political party mayors, NGOs, the business room, etc., and so forth, friends, let's sit down, let's meet and decide together.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0339par0216	Let them vote, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0333par0217	I mean, why do you expect the governor's opinion to be reversed?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0339par0218	Mr. Secretary, let them vote, vote.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0340par0219	We've been through this since September 12th.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0333par0220	I mean, I don't understand why you don't appreciate this meeting.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0340par0221	We've been through this since the revolution.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0333par0222	Look, it's not just Istanbul, it's a taxi obsession. We speak all the provinces, all the provinces.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0341par0223	We're not talking about obsession, we're talking about illegality, we're talking about a court order.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0333par0224	Where in Ankara will you hold a rally -- over 5 million --? Where's the rally?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0342par0225	On lonely roads, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0333par0226	A rally that can't be done on the road.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0342par0227	Outside the city, on lonely roads, in between factories. It's the same September 12th law.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0333par0228	There's no rallying on the road anywhere in the world. There are places for a rally.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0342par0229	You're bringing in the same September 12th period? It's September 12th law.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0333par0230	Besides, we're not afraid of squares, we're not afraid of people. We take refuge with the people.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0343par0232	You are afraid of the division, but you are afraid of the division.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0342par0233	If you weren't afraid, you wouldn't have changed the HSYK.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0333par0234	And those who fear (Allah), know (it) for themselves.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0343par0235	You're afraid of the taxi.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0333par0236	March 30th is coming, and we'll see who's afraid of people. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0343par0239	You're afraid of the taxi.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0344par0240	You're scared.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0345par0241	Mr. Secretary, take a vote and vote on the decisions.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0346par0242	Yes, thank you, Mr. Secretary. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, after I've done the motion procedures on that clause, I'm going to submit them to your separate votes. There are three motions on Article 1, one of which is a violation of the Constitution. I'm going to read the motions, and I'm going to take first into consideration the Constitution's anti-constitutional motion, according to Article 84 of the Civil Code. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Article 1 of the current bill 559 be changed in the following way. "Any propaganda by political parties and candidates can be used in other election propaganda, as well as in Turkish, as in different languages and dialects with propaganda broadcasts by radio, television and all kinds of communication tools." Pervin Buldan Layla Zana Hasip Kaplan Secret by Dareyya Leader Bengi Star Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 559 Orders of Basic Rights and Freedoms - One of the Laws Against Change in Various Laws. We provide and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The title of Article 58 of the Law on Basic Decisions and Voter Logs, dated 1-26/4/1961, has been changed in the form of " bans and propaganda on propaganda" and the second joke has been changed as follows. "Any propaganda by political parties and candidates can be done in Turkish as well as in different languages and dialects." Levent Gök Celal Dinçer Ali Özgündüz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 559 Orders of the Numbered Legislature 1. We propose and propose that his clause be removed from the bill because it is unconstitutional. Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Ali Öz Spiritar Demirel S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mehmet Günal Does the Commission agree with the amendment motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0347par0268	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0346par0269	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0348par0270	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0346par0271	Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0349par0273	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 1 of Law Bill 559. I salute your high council. Mr. Secretary, those who talk about democratization need to be democratic themselves first. What is democracy? What's a legal state? What is the relationship between the state of law and democracy? What is the neutrality and independence of the judiciary? What is the independence of the courts? What's a separation of forces? What does freedom of press and expression mean? Without answering these questions, it is not possible to discuss the package of democratization. Turkey is ruled by a democratic and self-employing government. Prime Minister Erdogan has told reporters: "We have removed the documents, and now they have international collars around their necks. " A Prime Minister who makes these remarks cannot become Prime Minister for a day in a democratic country. Erdogan also said the words to the newspaper bosses: "What can I do, I can't control the columnist. You can't say that. I'm sorry, brother, there's no room for you in our shop. You should call the Prime Minister, so he orders opposition journalists to be fired by newspaper bosses. Such an example can only be found in fascist and totalitarian systems. Regarding a news report, Prime Minister Erdogan tells the daily Milliyet: "Batsun is your journalism." The newspaper's boss says: "We have made you very sad, and I am ready to sell it to someone if you see fit. " There's a lot of pressure, so you figure it out. Prime Minister Erdogan is interfering by calling the TV official and saying, "Don't pass that subtitle." These instructions and words can only be made by the rulers of countries with a fascist regime. Recep Erdogan is interfering with the survey company's research. Furthermore, the prime minister is looking for the television channel that gave the group meeting of the MPP leader, State Gardenlı, live. ▪ State announces a manifesto with a garden. And you give it to him alive, he says. I'll take two to three minutes, sir. He says, and he takes a nap. Where do you get this authority and from whom and what democracy are you talking about? This is a report in the newspaper entitled Turkey, which claims to have jumped the age of health? Prime Minister Erdogan immediately comes in through the Alo Fatih Line. Have mercy on the hand, I mean, how do you throw a title like that? In response to this, he is a fugitive, and that is a shame. After he has said it, the headlines are immediately made up for the situation. All three journalists who did the story are being suspended, and you're talking about democratization here. With this attitude, Recep Tayyip Erdogan is the biggest obstacle to freedom of press and expression. Erdogan had the TV and newspapers made a fool of him, censored the Internet, had HSYK taken over his hegemony, and intervened in the Law of the Judiciary.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0350par0279	Don't you see the squares, the squares? Look at the squares, the squares.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0349par0280	Thus, as Recep Tayyip Erdogan became the boss of the media, the AKP became the boss of lies, looting and corruption. This package is not a package of democratisation, but a package of Turkey to make it fit for division and dissolution. By punishing his way, by censoring the Internet, by controlling HSYK, by driving the prosecutor and police, by returning the debates on the ministers, by setting up the Alo Conqueror Line, by changing the Law of the Judicial Law, Turkey has already been democratized by changing Turkey! What democratic package are you talking about? Mr. Secretary, I'm telling you clearly, you're doing what the postmodern coup on February 28th can't do, and you're giving us a speech about democracy. On February 28th, the soldier had honoraries, and today, the Prime Minister and you have honoraries. On February 28th, the soldier called for the editors-in-chief of the newspapers, giving instructions, making headlines following those instructions. Today, at the same time as your instructions, seven or eight newspapers are making the same headlines and you're talking about democracy. Mr. Prime Minister talks head-to-head, delivers about 40 TVs, talks about him wherever he talks. Then you get up, you talk about democracy. What do you know about democracy, what do you know about the package of democracy, bringing this package and talking about democratization?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0350par0282	Look at the squares, the squares.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0349par0283	So you have no right to fool these people. But you can be a Democrat to yourself, a Democrat to yourself. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For him, the package of democratization you brought is not an acceptable package. Ahmet Yeni, don't talk too much, come talk to me. If you know, if you have something to talk about, talk from here.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0351par0288	Ahmet, I'm not running away as New, come!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0352par0289	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0353par0293	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0352par0294	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Koren, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Acar, Mr. Gök, Mr. Öz, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Öner, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Aygun, Mr. Ekşi, Mr. Cihaner, Mr. Erdoğdu and Mr. Onur. I'll give you two minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 559 Orders of Basic Rights and Freedoms - One of the Laws Against Change in Various Laws. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Levent Gök (Ankara) and his friends The title of Article 58 of the Law on Basic Decisions and Voter Logs, dated 1-26/4/1961, has been changed in the form of " bans and propaganda on propaganda" and the second joke has been changed as follows. "Any propaganda by political parties and candidates can be done in Turkish as well as in different languages and dialects." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0354par0311	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0352par0312	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0355par0313	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0352par0314	Levent Gök, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0356par0316	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the first amendment of the law proposal we're discussing, and I salute you with love. When it comes to basic freedoms and basic rights, naturally, they have to be met by a joint agreement by all political parties, such as the constitutional texts, and brought to Parliament by a joint agreement, but many of them have the same provisions as the Justice and Development Party, as in other bag laws, which we find appropriate. If only we could talk about something as important as these fundamental rights and freedoms, all the materials that we can all agree on and adapt to, together, because all of this concerns all of our citizens and all of us. We, the Republican People's Party, see the role of the state as an expression of the approaches that focus on all ethnic identity, religion and sectarian differences, and find common values. However, we also respect those who want to emphasise their ethnic identity individually and consider their ethnic identity an honor. We advocate that the citizens of the state have a structure that is equal to all citizens without seeing their ethnic origin, religion, or religion. We focus on the implementation of these universal human rights and freedoms, not only on the shortcomings of the law, but also on the fact that they can be caused by some errors in practice. It does not prevent our citizens from coming from different ethnic backgrounds, having different cultural, religious qualities, being together, and forming a common nation; on the contrary, these differences are our wealth as a nation, our power source. Mr. President, the matter we're meeting with is that any propaganda by political parties and candidates can be done in Turkish as well as in different languages and dialects. So we put up a motion like this, and although our Minister says we don't agree, I don't understand why he disagreed. Because, as the Republican People's Party, we have already stated in the law proposal that we have submitted to Parliament earlier, that the text that we proposed to change the Law on Political Parties 2820, which was adopted in 2010, and that the clause mentioned in this proposal was already necessary. Besides, we think it's imperative that the amendments to the Law of Political Parties, not only in Law 298, but also in the appropriate articles in the Law of Political Parties, should be met between law and matter. Dear lawmakers, therefore, in accordance with our earlier proposal of law -- in accordance with the law proposal in the Law of Political Parties -- and in line with the second clause in the proposal here -- this is a text that reflects our views as the Republican People's Party. We just wanted to enrich it by bringing a clause with our motion, which I think was appropriate, but I don't understand why the Minister was against it. Thus, it is a basic right in the Constitution, in human rights contracts and international agreements in the common sense of a common republic, to use a language that everyone can speak and understand with their own citizens, without fear of anyone, in the claim of being a major state within a unitary state structure and within a common sense of a common nation. We look at this material with this understanding and express our support, and we salute you with love.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0357par0324	Mr. President, I believe you have a request for a statement regarding the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0358par0326	Mr. President, the printed text in the hand is also called the "Lehçes," and Levent Bey made a statement in the form of "Levent Bey." They both look alike, but perhaps in Turkish, that would be more emphasizing. With a positive opinion, we can offer appreciation.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0357par0327	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Article 1 of the current bill 559 be changed in the following way. "Any propaganda by political parties and candidates can be used in other election propaganda, as well as in Turkish, as in different languages and dialects with propaganda broadcasts by radio, television and all kinds of communication tools." Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0359par0335	He doesn't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0357par0336	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0360par0337	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0357par0338	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0361par0339	Congressmans, in fact, our motion is to make the use of different languages and dialects during the election with radio, television and any means of communication. We're looking, everyone agrees on the restrictions. So, when I went to Şırnak as an MP candidate in 2007, I said, "Good morning," "x," and after I had said "x," the governorship immediately sent a sentence, which was against election bans, and then the proceedings came. I will tell you from here, without doing anything: The roof of this republic, when this Parliament was established, when you returned to no one, to the martyr next to you, you sing Kurdish, you sing Kurdish. You were not called Arab, you were called Circik. When we established this Assembly, when a new republic from the Ottoman Empire was formed, there were all colors under the roof of this House. Now we're resisting an understanding that's trying to wilt them out, and we've rebelled against these bans, we've developed civil disobedience, and if you limit them as much as you want, people are speaking in their native language, including the election period, where we're going outside of the election. We'll speak to them in their language. I mean, is it right for me to speak to them in English when I'm all in a Kurdish-speaking village? Do I have to speak English or politics or Turkish official language? You know, in the 21st century, it's embarrassing to get involved in this. Our selection music is not like that; it's in every language, it's in Kurdish, it's in Turkish, it's in different languages, it's in the Black Sea, it's in Lazca. We use all the music in the language of Brother Turkular. You have to use this too, why is he afraid of that? Feared in the 21st century, why? Look, I don't know if this is gonna be too hard for you, but... [[A recording was played by the preacher on his cell phone]] This is one of BDP's official selection music. Women made music for themselves, different Turkish music in the west. I mean, you can love dombra. We have people who love different airs in their own language, they like different songs, they can say different things. Isn't it already sociologically different bases for parties? I mean, it's one thing to say... It's like asking for one flower in a flower garden. Here we see, propaganda for an election period, even a limited right, opening up a discussion. We don't understand why this Parliament is so resistant to any simple step towards democratization. I mean, really, isn't this country going to have any differences? So, when these differences themselves, all of them, are denied and assimilated and ignored within the framework of official ideology, within the framework of paintings, will unity and unity be provided in this country? Friends, we have now found 35 channels from the satellite -- when we lost -- that only broadcast in Kurdish. The bans are over, my friends. These bans exist in all the developed countries of Europe... that want these political parties, and whoever understands them, there is no other way. This limited ban is called democratization, and I don't call that limited democratization. My tongue is my birthright, so no one can limit it. We consider it a limitation, and we object.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0362par0348	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the first article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 2 of the Constitution, one of which is a violation of the Constitution. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Coming up after the 2nd sentence of Article 2 of the current law bill 559, It is imperative that one of the spouses be a woman. We provide and propose that the declaration be added. Pervin Buldan Layla Zana Hasip Kaplan Secret by Dareyya Leader Bengi Star Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 559 Rows of Basic Rights and Freedoms for the Development of Various Laws We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. The following joke was added to Article 15 of Article 2820, dated 2-22/4/1983, and under Article 15 of the Law on Political Parties No. 2820. Political parties can implement the common presidential system, with the exception of taking part in their charters and not more than two people. Co-Chairs are subject to the rights and powers envisioned for the president in this Law. Celal Dinçer Ali Original Day Bedii Süheyl Batum Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2 of the 559 Numbered Legislature in question. We propose and propose that his clause be removed from the bill because it is unconstitutional. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Rusar Demirel Ali Öz Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu S. Nevzat Don't Fear Does the Commission agree with the amendment motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0363par0375	He doesn't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0362par0376	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0364par0377	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0362par0378	Anybody want a word on the motion? Lütfu Türkkan. Lütfü Türkkan, Aldeli MP.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0365par0381	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this law is called the development of basic rights and freedoms, but this package has been presented before us as a package of democratisation that the Prime Minister has already announced. Although the development of rights and freedoms in its name has nothing to do with democratisation, otherwise known as the package of democratisation. There is one thing that can be said for this package: it is prepared as an election investment. In bringing limited regulations, the package stays away from dealing with problems in terms of human rights. For 11 years, the AKP has restored democracy in all its practices and policies, using that definition to interpret and reduce it to ethnic identity. What kind of democracy are you talking about in an environment where ministers are accused of bribery and corruption, where they're prepared for a trial, but these proceedings have been extradited? You're setting up lines in order to lower the voice of our party, interfering with the press with the Prime Minister's instructions, and then you get up here and talk about democracy. Don't try to fool anyone. Don't think you're too smart, too naive for the good Turkish nation. This package was brought directly to parliament for the purposes of legitimising the demands of terrorist leader Ocalan. The main goal in this package is to erase everything that says "Turkish." To exclude Turkish, to exclude the Turkish name, everything is made up under the name of the democratization package. The government strives to continue further by expanding the work of the Turkish nation, which began with the removal of our oath. The main aim of the government is to establish a Kurdistan in Turkey. Now I ask the government, are you that uncomfortable with the word Turkish? Are you this uncomfortable with the geography you live in, the Turkish country? Do you realize that you have betrayed the lives, the saints, our martyrs, the land you live in, the Turkish lands that the blood-blooded terrorist organization has slaughtered, children, young and old? I think you do, but you've made such bargains that you know there's no turning back now. The ruling party is making a historic mistake. You're taking Turkey to a political resolution. Your goal is to remove Turkey from the law of one nation, one sovereignty, one country, one language, one flag and one unitary state. I just had a chat with a friend of mine, the director of the Democratic Turkish Party who called from Kosovo, about the law we discussed. He gave me a very good analogy: he said the name of this package you wanted to pass. I said, what is it? This is the Yugoslaving package, he said. It really is. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] It is a law that leads Turkey to Yugoslavia -- as the foreigners call it -- to serve the Balkanisation project.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0366par0393	There are 20,000 Turks in Kosovo, the official language there.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0365par0394	When the provisions of this bill are examined, it will be seen that the bill is free from solving problems, completely drawn up as a result of negotiations. For example, the withdrawal of aid to political parties to 3 per cent is especially a party's request. It also makes sense that after the process of continuing negotiations with the government's terrorist organisation, it should be brought up -- as you call it -- with very little time left in the local elections. One of the articles in the bill is the removal of the requirement that the names of geographical settlements are in Turkish and that they do not challenge infection. In an environment such as the so-called geography of Kurdistan, the restoration of names will pave the way for encouragement and new political separatist demands. Try as hard as you want, try to erase the word Turk, the truth, and history will not forgive you for what you have done. As I end my words here, once again on this stand, I say to the one who says, "Happy Turk!," and salute you all.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0367par0398	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 559 Rows of Basic Rights and Freedoms for the Development of Various Laws We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. The following joke was added to Article 15 of Article 2820, dated 2-22/4/1983, and under Article 15 of the Law on Political Parties No. 2820. Political parties can implement the common presidential system, with the exception of taking part in their charters and not more than two people. Co-Chairs are subject to the rights and powers envisioned for the president in this Law. Bedii Suheyl Batum (Eskişehir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0368par0407	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0367par0408	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0369par0409	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0367par0410	Süheyl Batum, Eskişehir MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0370par0413	Mr. President, I would like to stress one thing in particular as we begin to speak: we claim to be representatives of the nation, we are, but we are taking advantage of a privilege that has no right to any member or professional group of the nation. It's this... and I'm also watching this with surprise, especially during the AKP administration. No other professional group has a right: I'm a carpenter, I'm a table maker, but I can't get four feet down, but, you know, you're good at it. I'm a supervisor, but I haven't been able to find anything in three of the four files that I've been overseeing, and I haven't been able to check them, but every once in a while, I'm checking one, and that's not a right. I've only seen you have one right in politics: I've made one package of judgment; I've made two; I've made two; I've made three; I haven't kept four; I've made four, but we'll be democratized by five.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0371par0414	There's more to this.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0370par0415	Everybody's so happy, they say, "Great, we're democratized!" Now, it's empty, but everyone's happy. Of course, not us, the power is satisfied. Now, we just talked about meetings and demonstration walks. Let me give you an example. The most important thing we've changed in meetings and demonstration walks is that it used to be 23. Gathering until 00, now 24. We've brought it to 00, we're so happy, we've become democratic! Well, in the meantime, we haven't touched any of the other elements. We'll do it in two, three, four, five. That's all the skill we have. Now, friends, when we look at the 2nd article, when we say that there is a change in the Law on Political Parties in Turkey, 75 million men in the Republic of Turkey don't have to be a single problem; it doesn't even have to be an MP; it doesn't even have to be an elementary school; ask a reasonable, understanding, understanding human being. We've found three substances, my friends, and we've found three articles: we're electing co-presidents, and they don't have to establish a local organization in their charters. Well, friends, in the Law of Political Parties, you have the only power in the world that can tell you that we've been co-chaired by intermediary, intermediary, inter-democratic. There's no other example in the world. No, no, they don't. Again, we all know why this co-chair was brought in. Some say, "Sir, BDP and so on." No, no, they already have a co-chair, they're already implementing the co-chair system. Who said, "Don't apply the co-chair system." No, that's not our point. We're writing it down: co-chairs are subject to the provisions prescribed for the president. I'll say it again, and I'll say it again today, and I'll say it all the time: it's not democratization at all. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, when he's not the President or he's the President, he's only trying to do one thing, and he says, "Oh, how can I keep this list?" He says, "If I can't keep the authority to do the list, I can't keep the majority." What do you want me to do? I'll take the authority to make the list. It's written in the Constitution. You'll leave the party. Let's bring in the co-chair for now, and then we'll find it. Of course, if there was any sincerity in this, BDP brought a beautiful offer, and said, "Let one of them be a woman." At least apply it, one of them is a woman. Say, "Let it be a woman." No, no, first, you'd better ask the Prime Minister, then you'll decide. And I especially want to emphasize that this kind of democratization... dear friends, I think they probably won't say anything and say, "We haven't seen anything, we haven't seen anything, so just deal with it." Because we're bringing democratization into the party system around the world. That's enough, we've become so democratic, what more do you want? As the Minister said, "Yahu, this governor is a good man." Never mind, I mean, at least ask for an opinion. You're the only power in the world that says we said, "I'm sorry, but you're going to stay like this." My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0372par0422	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Coming up after the 2nd sentence of Article 2 of the current law bill 559, It is imperative that one of the spouses be a woman. We provide and propose that the declaration be added. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0373par0430	Mr. President, it won't interfere with the procedure, which is why we don't participate.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0372par0431	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0374par0432	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0372par0433	Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0375par0436	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the co-chair system is actually a system that we've been implementing as a party for years. Mr. Gültan Kışanak is a friend of our party's co-Chair for two semesters. Of course, earlier, we went to a women's quota by expressing that the representation of women in decision-making mechanisms, equal representation, was important, we had 40 percent quotas, but this period, we saw that women's quota no longer meant anything, and we made a decision that the co-chair system would come to life in all areas, and in these upcoming local elections, we began implementing the co-chair system in all the districts and districts that we nominated. In addition to our female presidential candidates, we have a male co-chair candidate and a female co-chair candidate along with our male presidential candidates. So, our male mayors, who are going to win in cities, towns and cities, will also help our female co-chair friends, both in representation and in decision-making. So, we want to say that the co-chair system, not only by the BDP today, but also by all the political parties in Turkey, must implement and implement this system. Because women, at equal representation level, will take steps to overcome women's problems at the level of decision-making mechanisms in Turkey. Because today, in Turkey, we're in a country where there are really, really big problems with women, we're in a geography where women's murders, women's murders, women's oppression and violence, sexual harassment and rapes are very intense. We invite all parties to implement the co-chair system in terms of both being the answer and equal representation of women. We also think that the co-chair system is important in all areas of politics, in decision-making mechanisms, and also in terms of organised participation. In this sense, the claim of mass participation in the political scene of all women, women candidates, and the will of oppressed, hardworking women will be provided in this sense. I'm asking all my female congresswoman friends for support on this issue, I'm asking for their votes, I'm saying we're asking for support in our motion, and I want to thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0376par0442	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 3 of the Constitution, one of which is a violation of the Constitution, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that after the declaration of "the district organization of political parties" on the 3rd article of the proposed law bill 559, the sign shall be changed as a sign of,,, (comgül), (directional comma). Pervin Buldan Layla Zana Hasip Kaplan Head of Bengi Star Secret Tilleyya Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd Amendment to various Laws in the aim of developing 559 Orders of Basic Rights and Freedoms. We provide and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Article 3-2820 of Article 20 has been changed as follows. "The district of the political parties consists of the district agency, the district congress, the mayor of the district, the borough board and the country organisation established. In the Party Charter, it can also be foreseen by the municipality and the district disciplinary committee. The establishment of an organization in the suburbs is not mandatory." Ali Riza Özturk Celal Dinçer Ali Özgündüz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 559 Orders of the Numbered Bill 3. We propose and propose that the last sentence of Article 20 of Law 2820, replaced by Article 2820, be removed from the draft text because the last sentence of the first joke is unconstitutional. Faruk Bal Mehmet Günal Ali Öz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Rusar Demirel Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Şandir S. Nevzat Korkmaz Lütfu Türkkan Does the Commission agree with the amendment motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0377par0467	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0376par0468	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0378par0469	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0376par0470	Lütfü Türkkan who wants a word on the motion is the MP of Kopeeli. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0379par0473	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Prime Minister Erdogan, said the package of democracy, but to us, this package was announced five months ago by him who didn't even carry the "d" of democracy. The Prime Minister and the people around him raised the package so much that there was a great expectation of democracy in society. People are beginning to think Turkey will lead the democracy league. Let alone the leadership, they've reduced Turkey to an amateur group in democracy. Because the package was a bust. We looked at it, and this package looks like everything but a package of democratization. You tried to stay awake in this package. You've sprinkled very well amongst the ingredients. For example, you remove 6 articles of the 11th article (b) of the Political Party Act. When the prime minister explained it, he made it sound like he was just lifting the officers' ban on politics. That's not the truth. With this clause, you lift the ban on thieves, the cheeky, the terrorist on the mountain, the rapists. He's going to rob the government, and then he's going to do politics in a public way. After you have passed this proposal, I think you should sign up for your party, Riza Sarraf, the cabinet's life coach. He's already been out of jail, robbed less so far, let him rob the country a little more. I suggest to the Prime Minister that he appoint Sarraf as minister from the outside. This Minister of Finance -- here -- doesn't suit this cabinet very well -- even Riza Sarraf didn't like it, he couldn't make contact -- so let the Minister of Finance make Sarraf instead. It's good for the Ministry of Economics. You can safely entrust all the ministries where the money returns. And it makes it nice to share because it's a watch, a box, a dress for someone, but it's always got dollars in it. First of all, this package is what the baby killer and his bloody terrorist organization wanted. Because there is an opening for the politics of Ocalan, and Murat Karayalan. All materials reached in Oslo talks are being implemented step by step. Little by little, it's time for the baby killer to be released. Ocalana will first be house arrest, then freedom, then politics, and then the road to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will be opened, or rather it will be opened, but you will not be able to reach it. This negotiation and negotiation process with the PKK will be broken, just as agreements against Turks have been broken in history. Patriots, nationalists will never allow this country to be divided, torn apart. The Republic of Turkey will remain forever, as Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said. This package never includes the demands of the nation. Co-chairing is a total election investment in three letters entering our alphabet, training in the native language, propaganda in different languages, changing the march hours, reducing the financial aid to 3 percent. That's proof that you brought this law to the General Assembly's agenda at the end of the week before the House closes. These are old tricks, gentlemen. Such election tactics are now very old, and calendar leaves indicate 2014. If those calendar leaves you are looking at show up at 2054, your corruption, your thefts will not be forgotten. The Prime Minister said it would be Milat for 2014. He spoke incorrectly, as did the Prime Minister and the government, which is the 17th of December 2013. Things won't be the same anymore. The reign is over, the land appears. So take out any law you want, flip it, get up on the handstand, fake smiles, spill your crocodile tears, it's gonna be different. In fact, the euros you keep in shoeboxes, the ones you keep in safes, the ones you load in trucks, you can't change the result, even if you distribute the money to the public on the street. You've reached the end of your political life. Everywhere we go from A to Z, your corruption, your thefts are spoken of. People will say, "and I'll tell you what. Amen." He's counting the days to say it. In short, these people no longer want you or your democracy. Your democracy and our democracy, the nation's democracy are very different. So don't talk to us about democracy anymore. Here's your democratic package. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0380par0483	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd Amendment to various Laws in the aim of developing 559 Orders of Basic Rights and Freedoms. We provide and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The first joke of Article 20 of Article 3-2820 of the Law has been changed as follows. "The district of the political parties consists of the district agency, the district congress, the mayor of the district, the borough board and the country organisation established. In the Party Charter, it can also be foreseen by the municipality and the district disciplinary committee. The establishment of an organization in the suburbs is not mandatory." Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0381par0492	He doesn't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0380par0493	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0382par0494	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0380par0495	Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, asking for a word on the motion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0383par0497	Mr. President, the democraticisation of the lawmaker is the adventure of democracy. However, this law that we've discussed today, and the law on the HSYK and the special authority courts that we've passed before, and the packages before this, unfortunately, not the indicators of the democratisation of the lawmaker; rather, it shows us the practices, policies, and the authoritarian aspect of a man, a man, a man, a man, a man, who can do everything. The Justice and Development Party has passed both the 23rd and all the laws it has adopted during this period to society in the name of democratisation or in the name of reform. In fact, even the fact that the laws adopted were presented to society in the name of democratisation is a concrete indication that Turkey cannot democratize, that there is no democracy in Turkey. Have you seen that in England, France, or any other country of Europe, the laws of parliament in Switzerland are the laws of democratization? Since 2002, the Justice and Development Party has failed to democratise Turkey and democratise the state. Because every law he passed pointed to an authoritarian path instead of democratizing the state of the Republic of Turkey, where the forces have united forces, instead of consolidating the separation. To become democratic, you have to defend democracy first. The essence of democracy is the state of law. The legal state is also based on the principle of separation of forces. If you make laws in a country that will destroy the separation of forces, if you, by the hands of your majority in Parliament, actually surrender the judiciary by the hand of the legislature, eliminate the separation of forces in that country, then you have eliminated the state of law. And if you destroy the legal state, you're destroying democracy. You can't talk about democratization in a country without a legal state because democracy doesn't exist. Dear lawmakers, today we care about the removal of special authority courts under the name "democratisation," of course. Our friend, the AKP spokesman who came here, has presented the removal of special authorities as an act of pride. I wish he'd thank the opposition for that. I've been a friend of yours since the 23rd term, fighting for the removal of those special authorities. We made proposals for the law, you rejected them on the commission, you rejected them in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As the third package ofjudgment was released, you submitted a motion in Article 74, bringing special investigations and prosecution powers to special authorities to Article 10 of the Anti-Terror Law. We have demanded that the 10th article of the Anti-Terror Law be removed, and since these courts should not be in the legal state during the meeting of the previous special authorities, then the decisions made by these courts are not necessarily in the state of the law. Since the prime minister has also expressed a warm welcome for the retrial and has been removed from these courts for the reason that they should not be in the legal state, we have said that the decisions made by these courts should be reconsidered, that the trials being made must be made again. So, today, unless this retrial process is run, unless the Anti-Terror Law is lifted in this country, as long as the dam in the Political Party Act is not lowered, as long as the inequality of political aid for political parties remains, you will be more fascist in the name of the Law on Meeting and Demonstrations, as long as there are no provisions of Article 220. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Call me Ali or call me Veli, you can't democratize. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0384par0505	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0385par0507	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit05spe0384par0508	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0384par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 3 of the Law Bill 559, the decision issued by Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk and his friends was not sufficient. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that after the declaration of "the district organization of political parties" on the 3rd article of the proposed law bill 559, the sign shall be changed as a sign of,,, (comgül), (directional comma). Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0386par0012	Mr. President, it's a correction, it's true, I'll leave it to discretion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0384par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0387par0014	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0384par0015	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0388par0017	Dear lawmakers, you're working hard, 24 hours, you're not paying attention to the dots or commas, so we thought we'd at least contribute a little. I think there's a problem with what's understood here by the term "democratization." There's a Political Parties Act that the coup of September 12th took place, there's an election system, and it's a Political Parties Act that was done as a reflex in that conjunctive by liquidating the political institution on September 12th. There are so many non-scientific, non-realityal substances that have been replaced in this, for example, to create a sociological minority. It's like sociological minorities aren't historically developing, not coming from the savings of thousands of years. Here, I'm looking, and I'm really seeing things that are going on in the Hat Law. Those who are very loyal to the laws of the revolution must keep their eight-pointed caps close to them, but I've never seen a cap on one MP. So demonstration walks aren't just political parties, people. That's what NGOs and groups from different groups are doing. So when it's looked at from this point of view, maybe for the propaganda era, at a certain time, political parties can establish a certain order to locate places. But, in general, it is necessary to be very careful about the constitutional rights of demonstration march. Of course, it's not as if the possibilities of being in power here aren't being used. The VIP meetings are being held, we know, Mr. Prime Minister comes at three, tens of thousands go to the airport at morning prayer, there's a rally. Like an airport rally, guys? Now, when you bring a pattern, a change, all political parties need to act accordingly. If you say, "I am in power," and if you try to perform at any time, any place, any square you want, then it would be wrong if you stitched up and sprayed panzers and panzers. So it's not just a matter of legislation about democratization, it's a case of mentality. There was an interesting photo in the press today. In the 40s, there was a reception for the Prime Minister, and I think all the Roma in Thrace were there, because there were 100 drums on the right side, and 100 zurna on the right side. I mean, I don't know if you've seen it, have you seen the greeting photo?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0389par0022	You go, and they'll meet you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0390par0023	They love you, they love you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0388par0024	I mean, this love, this drum, this stuff, politics, this election, nice things, I'm not saying anything. But, there was another photo next to it, using government vehicles, moving people to the rally... that's not what happened, guys!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0389par0025	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0388par0026	Look...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0389par0027	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0388par0028	It didn't... Look, for the governor's office to move the vehicles to the rally, if the campaign is carrying people to the rally...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0389par0030	Rented vehicles.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0388par0031	Look, guys, we see it every day, we live it every day. The governors, the governors, education, health, all the officers, the ones who don't participate, the ones who don't show up for the Prime Minister's rally, the ones who don't show up for election work, they make a follow-up schedule. Then you'll avoid it, too. Democracy must be considered a whole. If you'd be willing to comply with that, you'd be contributing a little. I mean, we've never seen you guys get sprayed. I'd love to see the police gas you one day from the unauthorized demonstration. I mean, we're homesick, so we didn't see you get gassed. One day they'll shoot you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0391par0032	They will not be able to endure, nor will they be able to endure.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0392par0033	Soon there will be opposition, Mr. Hasip, and that's when...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0388par0034	Anyway... Look... Anyway, I don't want to say anything, but I'll tell you what happens next.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0393par0037	Yes, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions on the fourth article. One is the Constitutional Amendment motion, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 559th amendment to the current bill of law shall be changed in the following way and added a joke to the article. "The public general elections also provide state assistance to political parties who receive more than 1% of the total valid vote. This assistance is proportional to the party's total valid votes, based on the amount of assistance the political party received in the parliamentary general elections, with minimal state assistance. However, it can't be less than 1 million Turkish liras, so the Finance and Customs Ministry budget is funded every year. Political parties who have found five or more lawmakers in the Turkish National Assembly who have completed their organization to obtain state aid and the right to enter the elections will be given as much help as the number of MPs who receive aid by dividing it into the number of MPs who have received the least state aid in Article 1 of the Political Parties Act." Pervin Buldan Secret Tilleyya Leader Leyla Zana Bengi Star Hasip Tiger Property One Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 4th Amendment to various Laws for the Development of 559 Orders of Basic Rights and Freedoms. We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. The fourth and fifth jokes of Article 1 of Law 4-2820 have been changed as follows: "In accordance with this clause, assistance is only used in party needs or party work. The parliamentary general elections also provide state assistance to political parties who receive more than 1% of the total valid vote. This assistance is proportional to the vote received by the political party, which received at least government assistance, on the basis of the assistance it received in the second joke and on the basis of a total valid vote in the general elections. In accordance with this joke, help cannot be less than a million Turkish liras. For this, the Finance Ministry budget is funded every year." Hüseyin Aygün Celal Dinçer Ali Özgündüz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 559 Rows 4 of the Common Legislature. We propose and propose that his clause be removed from the bill because it is unconstitutional. Faruk Bal Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Ali Öz Yusef Halaçoğlu Rusar Demirel Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Mehmet Shandir S. Nevzat Don't Fear Does the Commission agree with the amendment motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0394par0067	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0393par0068	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0395par0069	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0393par0070	Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0396par0072	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding Article 4 of Law Bill 559, which is currently under discussion. I salute you all. This article brings special provisions concerning the assistance of treasure to political parties. There are around 200 legally established parties in our country. About 20 of them have the right to enter the elections. How to get justice with this stuff is another matter. The honorable MPs, Mithat Pasha, wanted to make the constitution they had prepared, that any nation in the empire could officially use their own language. Mithat Pasha's ruling on language was this:: Each of the elements living in the Ottoman country is head of their own language and education, but it is necessary to know the official language of the state in order to serve the state. • This text only objects to Eğnlı Sait Pasha and gives Sultan Abdülhamit a report to Sultan Abdülhamit. Sultan Abdulhamit calls Mithat Pasha, who is aware of the situation, and warns: "I can accept no one but the Turkish language and the Turkish language of my state, just as they should have known, Pasha, as I did not stop reading the Qur'an in Arabic. Don't bring me the fundamental law that such a substance does not apply to me. In this way, the Agency is referred to as the only official language in Turkish. What Prime Minister Erdogan said about education in the main language and what he did, now we need to take a look at them. The nation's unity and the policy of breaking our union down slowly and slowly has reached such dire points that a lawmaker from the ruling party says in a position of authority: education in the main language is not right if you ask me. Education in the native language corrupts the country and the peace. There are 18 ethnic groups in this country. What if the only mother of the Kurdish people were to take the mother of 18 ethnic groups? I brought my mother, and I want my tongue. What will we do if she says? You have to think this through. Then they say, "We don't want to be divided, we don't want to be divided." What does Recep Erdogan say? He will feel that private schools are not bound by law or by the Constitution, which is where the Constitution begins the dissolution, separatist and separatist operations. Erdoğan says that education in the main language will trigger dynamics that will divide the country. You'll see, they'll say the same thing today. No, not in private schools either. That's not an issue for us right now. We can't step forward as AK PARTY on issues that will divide our country. We've already had the opportunity to learn the native language in schools. But if you open the way for education in the main language, you will damage the official language. He answered. So Erdogan himself saw private or public school education as a process that would divide our country and we would not take a step in it. Now what? That's something to think about. It's not ethnic, it's nation-based, it's not regional, it's nation-based, it's nation-based, it's not about blessing differences, it's about the foundation of unity in different ways; Democracy and freedoms for Turkish nationalism are more than a form of governance. Democracy, the will of the nation, basic rights and freedoms are also a national security issue for the Turkish nation. Politics and ideas integrated with his nation are the guarantee of the future of the nation and of the state. To his people, to his consent, to his truth, or to his values, not to be built upon a thought or politics is to betray democracy above all else. Our understanding, ethnities, sects, regions, is not about opening the genders, it's about integration, not suspension, not convergence, it's about compromise. He considers the whole community and all the differences in this completety to be his acquish. Our understanding encompasses the nation completely, without ethnic, religious, regional, or gender distinctions; we do not consider the Flame without Sunni, the East without West, the woman without men, the nation without spirituality, or the Turk without Kurds, nor do we bless the differences, nor do we ignore them. Good evening.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0397par0081	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 4th Amendment to various Laws for the Development of 559 Orders of Basic Rights and Freedoms. We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. The fourth and fifth jokes of Article 1 of Law 4-2820 have been changed as follows: "In accordance with this clause, assistance is only used in party needs or party work. The parliamentary general elections also provide state assistance to political parties who receive more than 1% of the total valid vote. This assistance is proportional to the vote received by the political party, which received at least government assistance, on the basis of the assistance it received in the second joke and on the basis of a total valid vote in the general elections. In accordance with this joke, help cannot be less than a million Turkish liras. For this, the Finance Ministry budget is funded every year." Uğur Bayraktutan (Artvin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0398par0091	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0397par0092	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0399par0093	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0397par0094	This is Ugur Bayraktutan, MP Artvin, who will be speaking on the motion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0400par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to a motion made in Article 4 of the Court of Law on the Development of Basic Rights and Freedoms in 559 rows. I salute your high council. Now, the motion in this 4th article envisions the reduction of 7 per cent of the dam, which is 7 per cent, to 3 per cent of the amount. There is a motion here that, in fact, the sums of the Constitutional Compromise Commission and the amount that we have proposed will be reduced to 1% of the amount we have submitted by the motion. But now, when we look at this motion for financial aid to political parties -- the political parties about lowering the election dam I just asked the Minister -- from 10 per cent -- there is a contradiction. I mean, we're down to 3 percent here, we're doing financial aid, we're accepting it, but we don't touch that 10 percent of the party's election dam. First of all, I think we need to resolve the conflict. Why? Because the 10% election dam, the valued MPs, is a legacy that we know of on September 12th. This arrangement, which was brought in on September 12th, unfortunately, is about 10 per cent in the past 30, 35 years, but the political parties who came to power view it as a taboo, and they don't look at it that way at all. Now, what's 10% for? I studied the systems in the European countries before I came here. The highest amount of dams in all European countries' systems is in 5%, 4 per cent, 3 per cent in the system. This also describes the fine line between justice and political stability in the representation. The legislator brings this kind of dam system so we don't go to coalitions, in case we can maintain political stability after 80. Over the years, governments, when they're in power, in a sense, don't go in there at all. Why? Since this is the dam, the citizens who voted in the election don't vote for parties where they vote, where they think they can vote, because their votes are going to be thrown out. What does that mean? It also shows that there's a lack of political systems in which the authorities can ensure justice in representation. Look, my dear friends, when we compared the 2002, 2007 and 2011 elections, especially in the 2002 parliamentary election, at that time in Parliament, you took 65 per cent of Parliament with 34 per cent. Can you tell me if there's any justice in this kind of representation? Look, in the election held at that time, the AKP received 11 million votes, CHP received 6 million votes, but the number of votes left outside Parliament is 15 million; 32 million people voted. Eight million votes were thrown out in the 2007 elections again, my dear friends. So 15 million votes in the 2002 elections, 8 million in the 2007 elections. What does that mean? So there's a very serious problem in this country, which comes from a 10% threshold, that can really bring justice to representation. It's wrong in a sense to think that if we don't fix this problem, by ignoring this problem, as if there's no such problem, by ignoring a problem in a sense, we can overcome financial aid -- the help of political parties. Democracy can't live without political parties, political parties are essential to democracies, but there's one thing we won't forget: political parties survive democracy, but democracies can end because of political parties. We have to see this fine line well. So we can't solve this problem just by reducing 7 per cent to 3 per cent in terms of financial aid -- just by looking at those glasses. To us, as I've just said, we need to sort out the ten percent of this hall, which is one of the biggest obstacles to democracy today, as a freak, in a sense. Why? Because as I have just stated, we must not ignore both the 2002 elections and the 2011 elections. Why? A political party that received about 50 per cent of the vote should, in fact, provide 50 per cent of parliament, according to the justice in the representation, but should be represented by 275 MPs, while about 51 lawmakers have been written as a plus to their own household. When we look at democracy, we also have to consider that it's a flaw in the functioning of democracy. Therefore, I would also like to point out that this proposal is not enough alone because we may have arranged it temporarily, only by providing financial rights to political parties, but we have to say that the main problem is the political party's origin is the principle of equality, that the Constitution is the principle of equality, that the political parties, which are the essential elements of democracy, are also going through a very important turn in this respect. We, as the Republican People's Party, have proposed laws on the lowering of the electoral dam, our fellow MPs have spoken in Parliament, but unfortunately we have not seen any sensitivity in this matter. I hope you will support our motion on this matter, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0401par0104	Your motion is no different than the AKP bill.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0402par0105	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 559th amendment to the current bill of law shall be changed in the following way and added a joke to the article. "The public general elections also provide state assistance to political parties who receive more than 1% of the total valid vote. This assistance is proportional to the party's total valid votes, based on the amount of assistance the political party received in the parliamentary general elections, with minimal state assistance. However, it can't be less than 1 million Turkish liras, so the Finance and Customs Ministry budget is funded every year. Political parties who have found five or more lawmakers in the Turkish National Assembly who have completed their organisation to obtain state aid and the right to enter the elections will be helped by the number of MPs who receive at least five members of this party on the basis of the number of parliamentary aid being divided into the number of members of the party, which is under the influence of the Law's additional Article 1. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0403par0114	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0402par0115	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0404par0116	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0402par0117	This is Bengi Star, Batman MP, asking for a word on the motion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0405par0118	Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, this is a provision that regulates treasury assistance. It's an arrangement that's been reduced from 7 per cent to 3 per cent of the vote, but it's really far from seeing the real problem, and it's not a solution to the problem. Mr. HEP, our President of the political tradition, like HEP, HADEP, has just reminded me of Mr. Murat Bozlak. Since 1990, legal regulations, such as a disability jump, have been introduced to block the political movement. In the past, there were no such challenges to benefit from the help of the treasure. Then he was brought in around 7%. Because he's close to 7 percent, the vote rate is 7 percent treasure... Until then, groups were being helped. After we formed a group in Parliament, there was an arrangement that interrupted groups, dear friends. The political parties are the essential elements of political life, we don't know any other will above national will. But when we look at the practice of this Parliament, the political parties in this parliament seem very pleased with their own situation. Another party doesn't come here, and those who come can't come here. Dear friends, this is a true test of intimacy. So some friends just came out and talked, and this arrangement, as if it was bringing something extraordinary, here are the approaches that, at some parties' request, brought the 3 percent dam. We've been in this Parliament for seven or eight years. We're still dealing with a political understanding that doesn't appreciate us being here. And it turns out that he doesn't like democracy, that we're facing a Parliament that is not yet ready for the representation of differences in Parliament. Dear friends, is this a reform? Is this a step towards democratization? Is it an arrangement that allows political pluralism to reflect on Parliament? Is it an arrangement that puts an end to the leader's sultan? They're all called no. Interestingly, the issue of our country's years of debate has been the electoral threshold, while the AKP government is highlighting the assistance of the treasure rather than overcoming this injustice. But our people want to see each game as a representation of Parliament. In no country in the world, there is no election dam like in our country. Even Russia, which we don't like, is criticized by all European countries for offering a 7 per cent threshold. As a party, we say there should be no dams both in the election and in the treasury aid. But if it's necessary, we think a one-percent dam will be sufficient and fair. It's a classic AKP classic to offer treasure help with the election dam in place. So if there's no bread, eat cake. It's like a matter of course. On top of that, when you receive the help of this treasure, you will participate in the general elections, where you will receive 3% of the vote. Let's make an independent election because the election dam is high. So you're either going to choose money or you're going to enter Parliament independently. Let's go in unadulterated, then form a group in Parliament. Congressmans, this arrangement could indeed be one of the most important arrangements in our people's Parliament, especially in this package of democratisation. Especially today, with CHP's positive suggestions, if the ruling party had been sincere, we could have more colored this Parliament with a five-minute arrangement, not just the BDP, but the plurality of all the political parties in Turkey, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We see that the AKP is not yet ready for this, and that the will of this people still prevents the reflection of its will to Parliament. So I don't think a government that isn't ready for this is going to bring about democratization and freedom, so to speak -- I don't want to use it, forgive our friends, but I don't think it's going to go any further than that. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0406par0130	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0407par0131	The decision is sufficient, Mr. President. From now on, Elitaş will see. I'll show you democratization, Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0408par0133	It's a part of democracy, so what do we do?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0409par0134	Brother-in-law will share three parties with state aid.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0410par0135	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0408par0136	Those in favor say...........
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0410par0137	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0411par0138	You'll share brother and sister, won't you? Woe to your democracy! How clever of you!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0412par0139	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0413par0140	No one's agreed.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0414par0141	There's not enough of a decision.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0415par0142	Don't be shy. Don't be shy.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit06spe0414par0143	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit07spe0414par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Batman MP Bengi Yıldız and his friends to vote on Article 4 of the Law Bill 559 was not enough. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 559 Sequence Numbers Bill 5. Substituted by Article 2911, Article 6 of the Law on Meetings and Demonstration Marchs; 1) 2. The addition of the phrase "in the central parts of the city, which meets the trend," 2) 2. Given his joke, following his statement, the addition of the phrase "in the central parts of the city," 3) 3. The people who are in his joke will be announced "to political parties who are under arrest will be notified." Adding his notice, Supply and offer. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Rusar Demirel Mehmet Şandir Mehmet Günal Ali Öz Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu S. Nevzat Don't Fear Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2911 s, which has been replaced by Article 5 of the current law bill 559. We propose and supply the amendment to Article 6 of the Law in the following way. "The meeting and demonstration march can be held anywhere within the entire district or district. The management of the property takes necessary measures that do not harm the democratic function of rights." Pervin Buldan Layla Zana Hasip Kaplan Secret by Dareyya Leader Bengi Star Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 559 Orders of Basic Rights and Freedoms - The 5th Amendment to various Laws. We propose and supply that the clause be changed as follows. Article 6 of the Law on Meeting and Show March No. 2911, dated 5 - 6/10/1983, has been changed as follows. "MEDDE 6-The meeting and demonstration march can be carried out anywhere, provided the following provisions are followed within the borders of all districts and districts. The meeting and demonstration march in the provinces and counties is applied to the votes of the district and county mayors, three trade unions with the most members, and the district and county representatives of the last political parties who received 1 per cent of the valid vote in the parliamentary general election, as long as the meeting and demonstration march is met in the first joke of Article 22 and is adopted. The vote is generally decided, and the decision is passed to its chief, the largest property in the area. More than one meeting and demonstration march can be determined, considering the size, development and residential properties of the district and the district. The meeting and demonstration march are announced to the public by the local newspapers and by the governorship and the municipality websites. The following changes to the location and route of meetings and demonstration walks are also done in the same way. These changes are valid 15 days after the announcement. More than one meeting and demonstration march may prefer one of the destinations and routes set in the districts and districts where its route is set, so that the regulatory board will not disrupt public order and general order. Ali Haydar Öner Celal Dinçer Ali Özgündün Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit07spe0416par0039	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit07spe0414par0040	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit07spe0417par0041	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit07spe0414par0042	Ali Haydar Öker, MP of Isparta who wants a word on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Proposal.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit07spe0418par0045	Mr. President, we're interviewing the 5th Amendment of Law Bill 559, in order to improve Basic Rights and Freedoms. Our motion is that the venue and route of the meeting be removed from being single-digit by representatives of the political party, who received at least 1 per cent of the parliamentary general elections and the authority to be determined by the majority of representatives of NGOs and municipal officials. Dear lawmakers, with this law, a few positive steps are being taken. One of them is to help parties that get 3% of the vote. Our group's approach would be better reduced to one percent. There are arrangements for hate crimes, if only they could be followed. Twenty-three of the closed-door meetings. 24 out of 00. It's also positive that it's extended to 100. However, in the name of the law, there are very harmful substances. Like the Polish Stone Age, when you polish the name of the bill, the nation will think their basic rights and freedoms have been improved. Is democratic rights developing with this bill, or is it shrinking? There's a deterrent of young people, especially college students, who ruin their lives. In the 12th article, we shall reduce the sentence of Article 5237 from one year to one year to five instead of one year to three years; and in the 13th article, we shall reduce the sentence of one year to three years from two to five years. Young people will not be able to hold meetings, not perform demonstrations; they will not be able to use their right to hold meetings and demonstrations everywhere unarmed, without attack. So there'll be a reason for arrest over two years; throw it in, forget about it. New cases will be filed at the European Court of Human Rights, and Turkey will again hold first place. Members of parliament, the judges who evacuated the defendants wanted to be victims of false evidence in Ergenekon, Balyoz. Now, judges, prosecutors, to evacuate those who are involved in corruption, corruption, bribery, are found at the order of Mr. Minister of the HSYK, the head of the Minister. How nice it would be if it were not those schools, as a minister of education puts it. The last - term governments think it would be better if there were no crumbs of the democrat. The seat of parliament is not untouchable, and the facts are spoken of, and the goons are multiplied. Dear friends, if there's democracy, there's transparency. How did the money in the tight spot come to nothing? Where did the dollars go? Were the unmelted euros used to buy villas from the Citymark Mansions? Accountability... what actions were accounted for? Efficiency... how much did the Ankara cage cost? And ask the president of the government for the result of an ugliness. A woman was attacked by her baby in the roughlands. In broad daylight, a woman was molested by a woman with her bare hands and gloves on her back, but they still haven't found the perpetrators. In the same way, Ali Ismail Korkmaz was killed while trying to save his life, while the MOBESEs were blackened. The governor tried to steal slander, and then I couldn't provide security. The court was relocated. When are you going to give the goods to the people? Those who do not give their trusts to their owners will receive their trusts. My respects.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit07spe0419par0056	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2911 s, which has been replaced by Article 5 of the current law bill 559. We propose and supply the amendment to Article 6 of the Law in the following way. "The meeting and demonstration march can be held anywhere within the entire district or district. The management of the property takes necessary measures that do not harm the democratic function of rights." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit07spe0420par0064	He doesn't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit07spe0419par0065	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit07spe0421par0066	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit07spe0419par0067	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit07spe0422par0069	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, in fact, you brought here under the name of the democratic package, and you just gave me a picture, a picture, a picture, of how insincereness and really segregation work up to your soul, your marrow. You, with freedom, political representation, and political parties, have no connection whatsoever to equality, but you don't. If there was... In fact, you're afraid because your party is starting to resign, and tomorrow they'll start a band. A group of people who left your party had formed a group here in the House. That group had received the help of the treasure, if I'm not mistaken, of Erkan Mumcu. Now...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit07spe0423par0071	The treasure didn't get help...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit07spe0422par0072	At that time, the law of Canaan's Universe was that of getting 7 per cent of the election, plus the parties with the group, were receiving treasury assistance. You sat down, and you and CHP were two parties at that time, and you took it out so that others would not leave you, or resign, or form a group. Today, with a motion from the CHP, the league is ahead of you, saying: "Let the parties who have won votes in 1 percent be represented from the treasury aid." ▪ Treasure relief seems to be coming out of Elitaş's pocket, coming out of his wallet. It's as if the AK PARTY is coming out of the hands of lawmakers, as if your constituents are paying taxes only to the treasure. And you've done so much discrimination to your bones that you've done so much that when you bring it in, you say, "General elections." Isn't the local election a choice, ladies and gentlemen? Would you say that's not a choice, local elections? Doesn't it happen all over Turkey? Why are you afraid of 3 percent of him? Why are you running away? Why? Because it's so BDP doesn't win. It's a famous story; they asked Kurds, who's gone, who's gone and who's gone, Kurds, what's your last word? I want to see my mother. On the other hand, those of you who thought like you said, "Our last word, Haso, don't let the motherfucker see if Haso's going to see if he's going to get his ass kicked, we're going to talk more about this democratization. But know very well: From the fifth article, which begins with demonstration walks, the fear of the Zombie Square is in your soul, and its elements come from behind. The fear of the resistance of the Travel Park envelops your hearts. So that you can sit down with the governors, and hold your witnesses, and the governors at your disposal, and determine the elections, and the rally squares. Three or four places in the entire Istanbul metropolitan area. After that, when you see five people together, you'll start spraying them, squeezing them with TOMA, attacking them. Once someone has shown any opposition to power, you will begin to attack. It's called aggressive democracy, aggressive democracy! This is the new model of AK PARTY. The beginning of your fear of meeting and demonstrations, of citizens expressing themselves, is, in fact, empty, no matter how many precautions you take. Why do you leave the whole decision-making mechanism to the governors? Isn't that a constitutional right? Isn't there a meeting, freedom of demonstration in the Constitution? It is done there without permission. Doesn't it say? I mean, how do you make this unconstitutional arrangement, despite the Constitution, the governor's initiative? If it suits you, right? If it suits you. Look, your idea of democracy is your own way. You guys have nothing to do with universal democracy. You're fooling yourself. And you think you're fooling someone. You can't fool me, guys. You are on the wrong path, you are on the wrong path; you are not sincere, you are not sincere. Insincere people can't help peace or democracy. I'm telling you this clearly, I'm warning you. Vote with a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit07spe0424par0078	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0424par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision on the 559th Article of the Bill of Law to vote on the motion submitted by Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, no motions. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 559 Sequence Numbers Bill 5. Substituted by Article 2911, Article 6 of the Law on Meetings and Demonstration Marchs; 1) 2. The addition of the phrase "in the central parts of the city, which meets the trend," 2) 2. Given his joke, following his statement, the addition of the phrase "in the central parts of the city," 3) 3. The people who are in his joke will be announced "to political parties who are under arrest will be notified." Adding his notice, Supply and offer. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0425par0016	He doesn't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0424par0017	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0426par0018	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0424par0019	Faruk Bal asking for a word on the motion is the MP of Konya. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0427par0021	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party, which Mr. Minister and Mr. Commissioner have expressed disagreed with. I salute you all. This bill has two key features: one is to do things under the name of democratization, and the other is to break the laws of national unity and brotherhood. Mr. Government and Mr. Commissioner, if they had listened to our motion, if they had read the motive and the motion, and if their purpose had been democratisation, we would agree. Why? Because rather than the 5th article, the meetings and demonstration walks, the public's most natural right to determine the areas of the meeting and demonstration march alone, it was not only the political will, but rather the superiors, in the case of the representative of political will, that it was also the opinion of organizations who wished to hold this meeting. Our suggestion was: Since you're calling political parties to the governor's foot, if you're calling unions to the governor's foot, civil society organizations, you're taking your opinion, why leave it only to the governor? In accordance with the trend set at that meeting, I suggest you locate the location of the meeting demonstration and march. You reject this because it's not democratization; it's not democratization; it's purpose is to implement the decision of the chiefs in the form of the voice of political power again, in the name of democratisation. Again, in our second joke, we say that we set a specific criteria for coming after the statement, where this demonstration and march will be located in the central part of the city. There are such practices that the city stands here, there's an animal market out there, and my co-host doesn't approve; he decides that groups, unions, associations, or masses who are going to perform or hold meetings in the animal market that he doesn't like. There's also a phrase called "The People." Since political parties are the most important thing here -- the most important thing to announce to the public -- a place like this -- is that it's being decided so that political parties know where to meet, how to put on a show, and they can shape society accordingly. Of course, that's not the point. The goal is to make it look like it's becoming democratic, so that the governors, the owners, accept the property as their sole authority. Here, I'd like to give you a few examples of the governors you're going to leave: One of these governors is the Governor of Isparta. On February 27, 2014, Prime Minister Burdur was leaving to hold an AKP rally. To move AKP members to the rally, the Governor of Isparta is allocated all official vehicles in the city and is writing official letters for it. Is this democratization, Mr. Secretary? If you really have a democratic spirit, you need to open an investigation into this governor immediately. We're going to have a public vehicle rally of a political party...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0428par0028	He'll accompany the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0427par0029	Sir, he's not going as Prime Minister, he's going as AKP President; he's doing AKP propaganda when he goes to his rally. You need to do an investigation on this. There's another one of these governors. There's a governor of Adana who calls the citizen "I'm sorry." You're giving him orders. You're leaving this authority, this meeting that I've just expressed, to the governor's will, to perform the march. There's another, the governor of Van. He went public, he went to the press; he's taking the deputy governor; what I say is that the whistle is what I'm blowing, and you're not going to get out of it. Four deputy governors are resigning. Is this democratization? Another says, "Happy is the Turk." The sign is worn out; the new one has been down for months, and the year has passed, and the sign does not replace it. The governor of the state is no longer the governor of the Republic of Turkey, but to settle with your Turkish... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... He's become a governor of your policies. So these examples can't just be left to the will of the trustees in 80-odd counties and 600-odd counties. If it's democratization, you must accept our motion, I salute the House.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0429par0036	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 6th article, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 559 Orders of the Numbered Legislature 6. Substituted by Article 2911, Article 7 of the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations, "can be done." He's about to come after the word: , the trustees declare the sun's watch on the website of the districts and via the mutate ads, and announce it to political parties during election times. We propose and propose that the notice be added. Faruk Bal Mehmet Günal Ali Öz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Rusar Demirel Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Şandir S. Nevzat Don't Fear Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 559 rows, replaced by Article 6 of the framework, 2911 S. We propose and propose that the 7th Amendment of the law be changed in the following way. Meetings in open places can be held until 24 p.m., and there is no time limit for closed meetings. Pervin Buldan Layla Zana Hasip Kaplan Head of Bengi Star Secret Tilleyya Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 6th Amendment to various Laws in the Purpose of the Development of 559 Numbers of Basic Rights and Freedoms. We provide and propose that the clause be changed as follows. The second joke of Article 7 of the Law No. 6-2911 has been changed as follows: "The meetings in the open places and the walks will be disbanded before sundown, and the meetings in closed places are at 24 p.m. It can be done by 00. Roads, parks, squares and stadiums are also considered closed places." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0430par0063	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0429par0064	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0431par0065	He doesn't agree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0429par0066	Celal Dinçer has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0432par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a pledge on the 6th Amendment of Bill 559, and I salute your grand delegation. According to Article 34 of the Constitution, each person has the right to hold an unarmed and non-aggressive meeting and demonstration march without prior permission. • The right to a meeting and demonstration march in the civilized world is at the top of basic rights and freedoms. It is also the basic principle of removing all obstacles to the peaceful use of this right without resorting to violence. Meetings and demonstration walks are a search for rights and are held against the administration's action and process. Thus, in a democratic country, the use of this right and freedom is natural, and it is up to the executive body not to ban such meetings and demonstrations but to allow those who exercise these rights to use them freely and safely. According to this change, meetings and walks in open areas are being changed, and meetings in closed areas will be disbanded before sundown. It's arranged to be done until 00. Twenty-three of the closed-door meetings. 24 out of 00. Expedition of 00 is not an important innovation in practice. A peaceful demonstration should not be considered illegal just because formalities are not followed, but because time has been crossed. The discrepancy of open and closed areas is not clear either. These changes envisioned in the bill are presented by the power as reforms, which is not a true claim. Dear friends, regulations in the bill do not address the basic issues of the right to a meeting and demonstration march. It would be a more accurate and democratic approach to expanding the area of freedom in the establishment of nonviolent meetings and demonstrations that will not disrupt public order. Turkey is receiving the most violations of the European Court of Human Rights because of the Law on Meetings and Show Marches. In peaceful meetings and demonstrations, the European Court of Human Rights envisions an active investigation into law enforcement officers using disproportionate force. The Council of Ministers' Committee of the Council of Europe has also suggested that the violations of the right to meeting and demonstration march in Turkey do not be interfered with peaceful demonstrations, that the use of pepper gas should be followed by rules, that the requirements, measurement and reasonableness of security forces should be taken into consideration. This power has done the opposite; it has declared that it is forbidden to go to division, nation square, Tandoğan, and even the roads to the Memorial. The ban on division is not a legal issue; the ban on division is an expression of the AKP's power demonstration via the Zone Square. No one can ignore the above principles and make the meeting impossible, he has no right. Dear friends, what does it mean to have a meeting where it does not affect citizens' daily lives? Even this sentence alone makes no sense in the right to a meeting and demonstration march. I'd like to point out to those who use it as a legal tool to set the country straight that they are the ones who are left behind in the context of collective use of freedom of expression. Turkey and the world have seen clearly the position of power because of the Travel Park. As it is known, seven people have died there, thousands have been taken into custody, 8,041 people have been injured, and 11 have lost their eyes. It is a violation of human rights and a reflection of the human rights report card of the AKP's power. When we look at this report card, we see that the AKP's ruling rating is very weak in the right to meet and perform walks. And with this bill, it resets its ruling rating. When the time comes, it will reset our people's power. Again, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0433par0080	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 559 rows, replaced by Article 6 of the framework, 2911 S. We propose and propose that the 7th Amendment of the law be changed in the following way. Meetings in open places can be held until 24 p.m., and there is no time limit for closed meetings. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0434par0088	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0433par0089	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0435par0090	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0433par0091	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0436par0093	Dear friends, I'd like to show you a picture of your democracy today. There's no need for demonstrations, as you can see from the TOMAbooks to the apartments, to the classrooms... you've done quite a bit of work. There's no need for a meeting or a demonstration march, and now you're spraying water into buildings. Now, with that understanding, you think you can bring democracy to this country, don't you? This is called the package of democratization. You might think you're taking very big steps, maybe you think you are, and so does the Prime Minister, but we don't see what you think is a very, very big step in terms of a chick step in terms of democracy, you know, the chick step. Really, I sincerely say that you're stonewalling this path to peace and brotherhood in this process of resolution, knowing that it's really a path through democracy. So, from now on, I've decided to teach you a lesson in democracy. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Lesson number one, listen from the outside, if you want, but democracy is one, lesson one...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0437par0098	This is a democracy!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0436par0099	Yes, you will. I'll tell you about democracy from this platform, and you'll learn. You'll get some use out of it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0437par0100	You will learn democracy from the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0436par0101	Because you'll find that what you call bullying, what you call dictatorship, what you call oppression, is not democracy. Democracy has three suspects...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0437par0103	AK PARTY taught you democracy. If you're talking here, AK PARTY...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0436par0104	Don't talk, don't talk, don't talk.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0438par0105	Mr. Kaplan, please...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0436par0106	Don't chat. Mr. President, you shut him up.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0438par0108	Congressmans, please don't make promises.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0436par0109	So, Mr. President, do your duty. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Democracy lesson number one: without political democracy, there is no democracy. He's got three suspects. Her second suspect is economic democracy. His third suspect is a cultural, pluralistic democracy. In this motion, I'll tell you about political democracy, my friends. Political democracy is to value the will of the nation, to respect it. You know, he says that the government is a unconditional nation. It's not to screw over this nation, it's to stand right, it's not to put election dams in front of it to respect its will, it's not to put the treasure dams in front of it. It's the Law of Political Parties, which is left by the dictator of the Kenan universe and created a leader's sultan. There's no place for a leader in that political democracy, my friends. In the parties with that leader's sultan, again, with a law passed during the coup, democracy within the Political Parties Act has been lifted. Biat culture has been vaccinated because the party's democracy has been lifted. Biatians can come to the desired places at the leaders' parties. All doors close in front of the non-profits, and they can't even run for next semester. And that's when leaders begin to nominate people in their proper prototype, and they start coming to parliaments with these candidates. After that, they'll shut them up. How? Just as the picture was seen in the A, they start spraying the apartments with the TOMA, spraying the red dress woman with the gas, shooting people in the head with their gas flares, killing Ali İhsan Korkmaz as they killed them, and then starting to protect the perpetrators. Well, they're not called democracy, friends, they're called dictatorial regimes. It's when the law doesn't work, the perpetrators, the villains are protected, protected, taken away from justice, the cases are banished, the records, the evidence is erased, and the political authorities protect the killers. There's no place for this in political democracies, folks. So much for political democracy. Hopefully we'll continue with the other motion on economic democracy and cultural pluralism.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0439par0116	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 559 Orders of the Numbered Legislature 6. Substituted by Article 2911, Article 7 of the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations, "can be done." He's about to come after the word: "The trustees declare the setting of the sun on the website of the districts and through the proper ads, announcing it to political parties during election times." We offer and offer to add his notice. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0440par0124	He doesn't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0439par0125	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0441par0126	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0439par0127	Faruk Bal asking for a word on the motion is the MP of Konya.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0442par0129	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, I resent the owners of the skyscrapers that broke the skyline of Istanbul. So if he were to pay attention to this motion, as a professor of the Constitution, yes, that's right, let's do it. He should say, "Let's do it." Unfortunately, it's not happening. What's the motion? My dear friends, the motion is this: a clock is set for the setting of the sun. The setting time of the sun is two minutes, three minutes per meridian. So it's going to change in every district, it's going to be the setting hour of the sun, but we're going to rule this sun, when political parties are running out of propaganda. We say, "This is when the meeting, show and walk is over." So, what we're trying to do is we're going to clarify this variable judgment, and we're saying, "Let the trustees determine the setting time of the sun in the county, declare it through the proper means, put it on the website." And don't let political parties go to chaos during election times. Do not let an expert sergeant or gendarme worry when the sun goes down or when it will go down under pressure from the police.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0443par0131	It's all in the religious calendar.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0442par0132	When it's cloudy in winter days, when it's closed, you never know if the sun goes down or not.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0443par0133	It's on the speaker, it's on the phone.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0442par0134	So let's make this clear. The full name of this in democracy: the laws of law are made to be trusted. When I say, "Mr. Lamb, I resent the principle of the law being legalized in a reliable way, "not when I am acting as President of the Constitutional Commission with the title of "professor" (professor). So I know it has no purpose to democratize. I'm going back to another page. My dear friends, this law is a law that aims to eliminate the concept of the integrity of the nation. By holding the enlightening projector of history on your consciences, I'll continue in that way by wishing you'd find a conclusion here. The Ottoman Empire is a Jihan empire that lasts six centuries on three continents of 400 tents. There are two key elements to the formation of this jihan empire: Islam, one, and the other, Turkic. As long as the Ottomans rose, as long as they held on to these two concepts, as long as they kept science, technology in the forefront, as long as they kept away from these concepts, the Ottoman Empire stopped, then declined, then collapsed. Its collapse reached a dramatic point in the 19th century. So, when we get to that 19th century, the Ottoman intellectuals come up with this notion that it's an old expression. In Arabic, the concept of the Turkish, the majority of Turkish, the great cyclical empire, which makes the word "Etrâtrakidrak" negative, means "Etrâtrakidrak" (Etrâtrýdrak) and the total Turkish meaning is that "Ethrak" (Etrak), the concept of "Turkish" (Turkuk) in Arabic, is that the Ottomanist, who makes the Ottomans to rule over three continents for six hundred years, and then falls slowly after the fall of the Ottoman Empire, and I am lost to the entire Ottoman Empire in 1850 years. Now, it's a historical fact that the Ottoman Empire's nation's integrity, its understanding of Turkic without authority, dominates the empire. Its reflection -- we will continue today -- but -- is a sign of how the Turkish nation's integrity would be divided into ethnities in this land, and how the Turkish concept of Turkishness would be brought down, just as the Ottomans had been destroyed, in Anatolia, with the spirit of Kuvasimilli, and a serious responsibility on all of us. This is not the problem of a party, it is the problem of the Turkish nation. We're gonna keep this up.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0444par0138	The decision is sufficient, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit08spe0445par0139	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0445par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision on Article 6 of the Law Bill 559, in the voting of the motion issued by Konya MP Faruk Bal and his friends. Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... the decision is enough, the motion is not accepted. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the 7th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 559 Orders 7 of the Numbered Law Bill Article 3. The joke is "unusable." To come after the word, a copy is submitted to the regulatory board. We propose and supply the addition of its declaration. Faruk Bal Mehmet Günal Ali Öz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Rusar Demirel Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Mehmet Şandir S. Nevzat Don't Fear Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 7th Amendment to various Laws in the aim of developing 559 Orders of Basic Rights and Freedoms We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. The third sentence of Article 11 of Article 11 of Law 7 - 2911 has been changed as follows. "This obligation will be submitted to the head of law enforcement, prepared by the board of regulations to ensure that it is fulfilled." Mahmut Tanal Celal Dinçer Ali Özgündün Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the bill of law 559 be removed from the draft text of the joke added to the framework 7th article. Pervin Buldan Layla Zana Hasip Kaplan Secret by Dareyya Leader Bengi Star Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0446par0029	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0445par0030	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0447par0031	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0445par0032	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0448par0033	Dear lawmakers, your democracy is based on tagging, monitoring, imaging, recording. This stuff is exactly the same. So you're going to get audio and video footage of the meeting and demonstration march, and you're going to be recorded by law enforcement, and you're going to do whatever you want through the footage and footage. That's your idea of democracy, always following, watching. How will the police record your meetings? You're power. Alimallah, somebody point a camera... you've got 6,000 cops, all the managers, all the branch heads. You have the power, the power. Power carries strength from you. Now, someone who would do something like this wrong to you... your congressman had already done something wrong with your kid, they had all the cops lined up. Just like that, they line up the stats, or you line up the rope to make the crotch, just like that. Bravo to you, the power is yours, and no one has power but you. Your sense of democracy is lacking in the political dimension of democracy. You take refuge in dams, you take refuge in dams, and in the laws of the Kenan universe. We'll rebel against your stubbornness, tear down your walls, your dams, we'll come, we'll form a group here, we'll talk. You want to turn that down, but you can't afford it. Look, I told you, another thing about democracy is economic democracy. In order for democracy to happen, I need a fair division in that country. It's not acceptable in a society for someone to eat too much and eat too little, someone to beat too much, someone to live too much, someone to pay their rent, it's not acceptable, it's a social explosion. So, when you make your income, you get the treasure, you get the taxes fairly. If you get 27 percent of tax from workers, workers, and 80 percent of indirect taxes from corporations, holdings, 20 percent tax, if you create a very minority rich and leave millions poor on the other side, democracy will not develop in that country, my friends. One of the essential elements of democracy is the economy. If everyone in the economy can't keep track of where their tax is going, if they can't control it, if they can't keep track of the budget with the Court, if they can't keep track of it with the Court, if they're going into someone's pocket, democracy doesn't work. Look, you never think about this foot, but the most important foot in democracy is economic democracy. When there's no economic democracy, one gets away with what one does in a democracy as a suspect. If you don't create the law, if you don't bring in the laws, where do you find them, where do I find them, if everyone goes after their laws, there will be no democracy in that country, my friends? Not everything is private, there are things that need to be done in public, all of this needs to be done. Now, when we consider this, think, can half a nation be free and half a prisoner? I mean, can citizens sometimes feel free when they're not free? It's happening, we're aware of that. Especially in undeveloped democracies. Again, can people be happy without freedom, my friends, is there a measure of that? There isn't. It's got TOMA all over it, gas all over it, guys. There's no good in a gas-scented democracy to the country, so let's be honest with you. Spring comes instead of a gas-scented democracy, let it smell of perfume on Redwood Boulevard, smell of fresh spring flowers. If you see three people together, you can't stop squeezing them. Is there such a democracy protection? No. Then something's wrong. When we're doing this wrong, we bring democracy with the contents of this package, we fly Turkey, take it into space, and we say, "Don't sell these stories to us." Hopefully, in the next motion, we'll continue with cultural pluralist democracy.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0449par0040	We've made a lot of use of it!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0448par0041	By God, you won't, maybe you'll hear a word or two.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0450par0042	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0451par0043	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0450par0044	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0451par0045	We asked for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0450par0046	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 7th Amendment to various Laws in the aim of developing 559 Orders of Basic Rights and Freedoms We offer and propose that the clause be changed as follows. The third sentence of Article 11 of Article 11 of Law 7 - 2911 has been changed as follows. "This obligation will be submitted to the head of law enforcement, prepared by the board of regulations to ensure that it is fulfilled." Mahmut Tanal (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0452par0053	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0450par0054	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0453par0055	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0450par0056	Mahmut Tanal has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0454par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. There are, of course, two systems in the world: one, who are on leave, two, who are not on leave. However, in Article 34 of our Constitution, a system that is not subject to leave has been adopted. But what is the new arrangement available? What is fundamental is the freeing of freedoms, and the constraint of freedoms is an exceptional situation. However, in this current arrangement, all citizens involved in a meeting and demonstration march will be tagged, watched, followed. Indeed, this is an evident matter in [former] rulings, and indeed, it is a matter of great fear [of Allah]. It's against the system to record and record so many meetings and demonstration walks that are very comfortable in unafraid and unafraid of their people. Now, of course, here, when we pay attention to the meeting and demonstration march in law schools, at least a lesson in Turkish law is taught in administrative law, is studied in criminal law, and they are shown as a source book. If Mr. Burhan Lamb Hajji is still connected to the university... it is said that he will be present here as an example: If there is to be a meeting and a demonstration march... for example, a meeting and demonstration march will take place there, and the drivers passing by or the citizens will have to think, "Why is this traffic locked today?" Is there an extraordinary situation here today? I mean, the purpose of this meeting and demonstration march is to be felt by the public, to be heard, and what happened here today, and why did people gather here? With this current arrangement, we have eliminated the essence of this basic right and freedom. What's this? Prohibition is contrary to the 13th article of our Constitution, as well as to the dissolution of democratic rights in accordance with the principle of tolerance here. So where is this arrangement again? The 15th article again brings this limitation, so the 15th article prohibits such an arrangement. What's the 15th article? You can't make a stop in the capacity to eliminate basic rights and freedoms. So all of the regulations here are an arrangement that eliminates basic rights and freedoms, which violates the requirements of democratic society. When we look at the bill, of course, we sometimes call Burhan Hoxha the President of this Commission, but we can't really say "safe" anymore, it's completely unsecured. I'll give you an example of matter 12, 13, 14, 15. What did you teach us in law school, for God's sake, in constitutional law? Children, refrain from repeating the same sentence during the regulation of the law. It needs to be said. That's exactly what I'm reading here, where you've done the same thing in the same arrangement, in the same law, in the same law, in the same law, in the same law, in 13, in 14, and in 15. This isn't the right arrangement, Precious Teacher. I'm asking you, so you're going to write this in your textbooks, and you're going to be the President of this Commission, and you're going to make this arrangement. Now, it's time for us to take the time of our dear friends to vote, and our friends out there can't attend the meetings. The 149th Amendment of the Civil Code states: "The MPs are called before each vote." I ask of you now, I ask of you here, I ask of you, as Vice President, this last joke of Article 149 of the Civil Code, which I hereby declare to all of you, in terms of the economy of time, and in terms of the practice of a situation that is not properly implemented. I ask of you all, thank you very well, very well. I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0455par0066	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0456par0067	Will you ring the bell, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0455par0068	Stolen, sir, stolen. I'm going to call the number of decisions I'm going to issue to your votes: All in favor... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 559 Orders 7 of the Numbered Law Bill Article 3. The joke is "unusable." He's about to come after the word. "and a copy is submitted to the regulatory board." We offer and offer to add his testimony. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0457par0077	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0455par0078	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0458par0079	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0455par0080	Faruk Bal Konya MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0459par0083	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the title of this law is a package of democratisation for expanding fundamental rights and freedoms. Now, when we call it basic rights and freedoms, the right to meetings and demonstration walks is a core right, the constitutional lawyers know that. As the government uses this core right, you say: "I film you all, I film you all, I film you." Why are you doing this? If, as a state, you come across a law claiming to democratize in a country that can be found to identify the perpetrators of a number of crimes and so on, you get off by the state, and you look at the side of the NGO. If you're actually democratizing, then if you're giving a copy of the transactions you've done to the other side, and they're trying to fix them up, if they've got any provocacators, if they've got any illegal activities, they've got to dig them up and expose them and make them legal, according to this... That's what the motion was intended for. Now, can you make a connection between rejecting a motion for this purpose and democratisation? You can't build it, so it's not democratization, it's pretending to be democratic, it's deceiving people, it's putting them to sleep. So, we're going to go back to our history lesson from the last item. My dear friends, the concept we call "Etrâkibiidrak" has been turned around in the process of bringing down the Ottoman Empire; that is the 1856 Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement and the Ottoman nation were put into it to disrupt its integrity, and the Ottoman Empire was told to make a constitution. This is what Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz, one of the architects of the Constitution, is about today's agenda. It's a suggestion that the nationalities that created the Ottoman nation can speak in their own language. The great Hakan Sultan Abdulhamit Khan noticed this and refused, but at the first meeting of the Assembly, the issue of speaking native language came up again. The Parliament Speaker of that time, all those who were from Ottoman subjects, had to know English. He said, he refused, but it was a very late-recognisable solution, because it was reflected in all the cells of the empire, and the state was dragged away from the concepts we call Islam. As a result of that drag, my dear friends, at the time of the 1876 Ottoman Constitution, there were states in North Africa in the borders of the Ottoman Empire, the Arabian Peninsula, the Persian Gulf was Ottoman Gulf, and the Ottomans had a large land in the Crimea and Caucasus, and the Balkans were Ottomans today until Kosovo. Move history from 1879 to 1920, and look at the fall of the Ottomans. The Ottomans' share of Istanbul was occupied. Who invaded it? English, French and Italians. Who were they? You make such a constitution to the Ottomans. Three European states that can reflect that disease, which we call Etrakibiidrak Τ, to the cells of the Ottomans. Ottoman territory in North Africa was occupied. Who did this? That's right, the British and the Italians who signed the Paris Accord. The Arabian Peninsula was occupied. Who were they? The British, the French, who imposed on the Ottomans in the Paris Agreement. The conflict of nationalities has also emerged in the Balkans, and behind the states that have transformed them into komitas, behind what we call the European state, the British, the French, the Italians, and on the other side the Tsarial Russia, which uses the influence of Slav and Orthodox as their political domain. So there was an orphaned concept of Turkishness that remained here; he went to his married home, the village, and the Turkish masses were trapped in Anatolia, to fight for independence with a force called Kuvayimiliya. Now, those who break the nation's integrity of the Ottomans... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...today the Turkish nation wants to break its integrity. We'll continue the lesson.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0460par0090	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0461par0092	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0460par0093	I submit the item to your votes, and I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient: All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough of a decision, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, there's enough of it, There are three motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 559 Rows 8 of the Numbered Bill. In the third sentence of Article No. 2911 and Article 12 of the Law on Meeting and Demonstrations, we propose and propose that the declaration be added after "the declaration of decision" shall be made. " Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Rusar Demirel Mehmet Şandir Mehmet Günal Ali Öz Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu S. Nevzat Don't Fear Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and recommend that the "received" declaration of the 559 row bill, which is in the third sentence of Article 12 of Article 12 of the Law, replaced by Article 8 in the framework of the 559 rows, be replaced by the "reportable" and "reportable." Pervin Buldan Layla Zana Hasip Kaplan Secret by Dareyya Leader Bengi Star Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 8th Amendment to various Laws in the Purpose of Development of 559 Numbers of Basic Rights and Freedoms. We provide and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Serindağ Celal Dinçer Ali Özgündün The third sentence of Article 12 of Article 12 of Article 8 - 2911 of the Law has been changed as follows. "If the meeting goes out of context or finds it impossible to take place in order, the Council or the Chairman of the Board will decide to break up and immediately be notified by the chairman of the board." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0462par0117	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0460par0118	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0463par0119	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0460par0120	Ali Serindağ, MP of Gaziantep, has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0464par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. This changes the position of the commissioner to the chairman of the board of directors. That's it, there's no other change, so it's not about democratization. The main reason for the change in Law 2911 is that travel protests will not be repeated again, and such a situation will be contained. The change that has been brought in and the changes that have been made so far are dictatorially authoritarian, and the opposition to the government is related to the blocking of all the air pipes. So it has nothing to do with democratization. Now, the right to hold a meeting and demonstration march is stated in Article 34 of the Constitution, and the Constitution says that everyone has the right to hold an unarmed and non-aggressive meeting and demonstration march without prior permission. The Constitution clause concerning meeting and demonstration march, you know, in 2001, has changed during the three coalition period that you were so critical of, but you didn't change the law. This law violates the constitution's present state. Look, with that change, the authority to postpone and ban the property manager's meeting and demonstration march has been revoked, but the law still holds that authority. If you had a problem with democratization, you'd have to fix it first, it hasn't been fixed. The restrictions imposed on the meeting and demonstration march are also a restrictions imposed on freedom of thought and expression. In this regard, our Constitution is also being violated. If you bring this change to us, no one will believe you, no one will trust you. Look, in all democratic countries, most of the demonstrations are held right near parliament buildings. Why is it done near you? Because the parliamentary parliamentary speakers, who organize that meeting and demonstration march, want to announce their voices, but in our current law, you can't meet within a mile of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's no arrangement for that. If you were concerned about democratization, you'd organize it first. Look, in countries like Britain and the United States, parks are reserved to express ideas freely, the largest parks are reserved for meetings, whereas in Turkey, you don't even allow protesters to enter the tree-cut park. If you were worried about democratization, you'd change that first. So this law has nothing to do with democratization or that. The purpose of this law, or rather, the change of Law 2911, is the protests of travel, as I have already stated. The travel protests have upset the government's chemistry, and in order for the travel protests to never happen again, the government is taking measures in its own way, but first, everyone must agree that this has nothing to do with democratisation. And there's something missing from the law. Sir, the end of the meeting is set, but when is the start time? In the old law, it says that you can't start before the sun comes up. Now, when are you going to start? If a group wants to hold a meeting at three o'clock, on what basis would you say there isn't? Because you didn't set up anything here about when the meeting would start, it's in the old law, but you don't regulate it in the new law. Why? Because maybe the people who made this law didn't have any acquaintances with this law, and those who organized it didn't have any acquaintances with democratization. So what? There's only one reason: preventing travel-like protests, preventing the gathering of citizens and preventing government actions from protesting, that's all. This law has no other purpose. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0465par0130	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0466par0131	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit09spe0465par0132	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... all those in denial... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0465par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the tenth session of the 71st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The decision on Article 8 of the Law Bill 559 was not sufficient for the vote of Gaziantep MP Ali Serindağ and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll continue negotiations with the bill. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and recommend that the "received" declaration of the 559 row bill, which is in the third sentence of Article 12 of Article 12 of the Law, replaced by Article 8 in the framework of the 559 rows, be replaced by the "reportable" and "reportable." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0467par0011	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0465par0012	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0468par0013	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0465par0014	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0469par0016	Mr. President, in 1829 the prime minister was challenged to a duel in England. That is because a Catholic MP has been taken into parliament. The lords say: "How can you violate the Protestant constitution and take a Catholic MP and challenge him to a duel?" They say that duel, historically, is the end of the duel. There is no duel in the tradition of the Turks, an Anglo-Saxon, even some in America. Do you know that we have ambushes, ambushes, backstabbing, how did I trap you? Don't brag... you know very well what that means, you know very well. See, when the Prime Minister went to Germany, he was talking about hypocrisy, where there were over a million citizens from Turkey. Of course, in countries with imperial balances such as Turkey -- here it is officially explained, and in the next article -- 36 different languages are spoken, known as people of different ethnitis. If you don't put the cultural pluralism suspect into life in your democracy, that democracy becomes a single democracy, it starts to kick, friends, it becomes a single democracy. It's against pluralism, it's against different languages, it's against different songs, it's against pulling different ropes. For him, in democracies, you will accept that plurality, that cultural structure, that identity, that is the condition of democracy. When you fail to meet that requirement, there will be no peace in that society, no security in that society, no peace in that society, no justice in that society. It's the truth of life. Regarding cultural pluralism, it is mentioned in democracies as an essential element. But when we're always trying to talk about it, our friends, of course, they're impatient, they don't want to understand, or they don't realize the passing of time. I mean, those who can't find a new solution need to be ready for new negatives, too, really. It's not that easy. I mean, it's not a violation of people's rights, citizens' rights, law, by stalling, prodding, cheating, waving, making fun of people. In modern times, citizenship in the 21st century is now a universal human right. Among them are some that are favoured, and among them are some that are less favoured, and among them are some that are equal to each other. We have to settle this equation. When we can't place this, the regimes that perceive equality, citizenship as a certificate of alms are called, believe it, not democracy, but tyranny. They're unaware that they're carrying out a tyrannical regime, and everything is normal to them. According to them, there's been a coup before, ten years before that, ten years before that, it's come with sediments, and I'm doing a few touches, democracy is great. We can't fool anyone with this. Don't let anyone fool you. With such a democracy, the solution is no peace. It's like giving alms, one step at a time, and then you're going to land the horrible package of democracy. What kind of democracy package? It's discriminated against, it smells racist. So it doesn't solve anything when you have an understanding within this package that binds every authority to itself. We'll continue to explain that in other materials.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0470par0022	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 559 Rows 8 of the Numbered Bill. In the third sentence of Article No. 2911 and Article 12 of the Law on Meeting and Demonstrations, we propose and propose that the declaration be added after "the declaration of decision" shall be made. " Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0471par0029	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0470par0030	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0472par0031	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0470par0032	Faruk Bal asking for a word on the motion is the MP of Konya.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0473par0034	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers state what these 8th article, the show and meeting march will do in the event that the council, which organises the march, is out of the picture of the meeting. In this proposal, the board will inform the security forces -- according to the form it states -- if it decides to be broken down. The board has decided to disband, and the security forces have faced protestors, which means that this conflict, which means that this new indecency, is the use of this state power against the community that wants to express itself. This needs to be stopped. How? It's very simple: the regulator, who has decided to be thrown out -- adding two words -- declares this decision. When he declares it, the people who went there in good faith understand that the demonstration and the march where they gather are closed by the force that summons them to it, is distributed, and pulls them home. I'm amazed at the rejection of our motion to make the law so simple, so clear. So let's go back to projecting history's projector on your conscience. Yes, Etrek biidrak. Etraki biidrak was a disease that disbanded the Ottoman Empire, and after disbanded, he went to his married home, the village. In addition to the Ottoman Empire's lands and the influence of the Ottoman Empire, 62 states were established under its protection. There's only one Turkish nation left without a state. So they came from all over the world from three continents, and gathered themselves together to Asia Minor. Another winter came, not one, but two. With the Balkan War, 5.5 million people left the Balkans alone to come to Anatolia. More than half of them were lost on the road; some in the snow, in the winter, in the apocalypse, some in the epidemic, some in the Armenian, Greek, sir, in the attacks by Bulgarian Komitars. They came to the people they found in Anatolia, as a result, in Galicia, Yemen, in Fizan, and most of the rest of them were martyrs, most of them were women, most of their men, except in the military era, and those who were in the military era, or those who lost their arms or legs. Among them is a small group that can only revive that spirit, whose name is still Zabitan. These are the people who say, "The rest of the country is the same." They say, "It's the people who pass through the property, the people who walk through it, the people who walk through it, the people who walk through it." This is the mass that Ziya Gökalp put forth, from the idea of Turkish nationalism in war, culture, and civilization, to Kuvasimimli, and what he did to this Kuvasimilli. My dear friends, we return to 1876. With that Constitution, we will make you a European state, promising the Ottoman Empire. As states of Europe, as powerful states, we as England, Italy and France will preserve your territorial integrity. The spirit of Kuvashimilliya, whom Halasharan Zabita has established, is fighting against the French in Kahramanmarash, so we give Kahramanmarash the title of hero. This Kavaimilliya spirit, organised by Halasharan Zabita, is fighting in Urbana, for which we call him the Shanghain, who fought against the British in Urbana. The martyr Kamil and the Antheps, led by him, are fighting against the French in Antwerp, which is why we call Antwerp. So when We carried him into the present day, you brought him into existence. Today you left not Halashakan spirit, but Halakaran spirit in Silivri, who fought terror at the corner, looking for terrorists under every stone, in the Pashas like Engin Alan, and in the Turkish officers who would follow him? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] By shattering the judgment, shall we wait for the judgment of the long - lived spirit of Halagarian, who has evacuated corruption, corruption, bribery, and those whose money has appeared? We'll go on with history.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0474par0042	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 9 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the clause of Article 23 of Article 23 of Law 2911 be removed from the text of the clause "by the entity" (J) in which the following article is supposed to be replaced with Article 9 of the framework of the bill under which the bill shall be changed in various Laws with the aim of developing basic rights and freedoms. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Your love Look Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Ali Şahin Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the bill of law 559 is to be replaced as the "responsibility board" in the framework 9th article. Pervin Buldan Layla Zana Hasip Kaplan Secret by Dareyya Leader Bengi Star Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 9th Amendment to various Laws in the aim of developing 559 Orders of Basic Rights and Freedoms We provide and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The first joke (j) of Article 23 of the Law 9-2911 has been changed in the following way. /j) Article 12 is required by the board to decide if the meeting is to be disbanded. Aylin Nazlıaka Celal Dinçer Ali Özgündüz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0475par0067	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0474par0068	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0476par0069	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0474par0070	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0477par0071	Mr. Aylin Nazliaka.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0474par0072	Aylin Nazlıaka, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0478par0074	Mr. President, I have made a promise of two and a half in the morning regarding Article 9 of the Law Bill 559. I salute the High Council. Look, dear lawmakers, we're actually dealing with a very conflicting picture of ourselves. While we were here tonight speaking on behalf of the Law on Meetings and Demonstration March 2911, on the streets of Ankara and on the streets of Kızılay, our citizens were exasperated, cobbled, and police were subjected to violence, some members of the press were injured. Look, the work has gone so far that even those who support the activists from the 5th floor are bored. I mean, we're faced with an embarrassing painting once again. The words we think of when we call it a gathering and a demonstration march are freedom of freedom, justice, equality, freedom of expression, while the words you think of are Scorpion, TOMA, pepper gas, and pressure water. You're very rarely responding to our question proposals, but somehow I know from your response to a motion, the Republic of Turkey has received a total of $21 million in pepper gas over the past 12 years, and we're talking about valuable MPs, 628 tons of pepper spray. Of course, when we talk about it, you're afraid of meetings and demonstration walks, and when we say you're afraid of public exposure, we do rallying, you say. But everyone knows how those rallies are done, precious MPs. Those rallies are being held with state resources, transportation tools of the state and psychological pressure on the government's personnel, and transport people are being taken. We know about the speech texts you delivered at those rallies. We know in which part of those speech texts you wrote which slogans were written. We've got all of this in our hands, precious lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0479par0078	Holy shit, you're listening!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0478par0079	But, you have to admit, in some ways, you have made Turkey the first country to experience things in the world. For example, today, for the first time in the world, in a country, citizens went out and there was a thief. You took them into custody, but you released the thieves. Of course, I don't even want to mention that we're the most punished country in the European Court of Human Rights for violations of the right to march and meeting. At most, I don't want to mention that we're the country that has the most arrested journalists in the world. I don't even want to mention that Europe is the first country in business accidents because it embarrasses me, embarrasses me for you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0480par0080	Please don't speak for us!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0478par0081	Look, we've seen how deeply you've internalized democracy on May 1st, we've seen it in travel events, we've seen it on the road to ODTU. You have a mayor who says, "When have I ever asked the public?" I mean, he's got such a mindset, such a sense of democracy...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0481par0082	Tell Mansur slowly, he'll do it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0482par0083	Consult him.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0478par0084	...he considers asking the public a weakness, but, of course, each of these will be accounted for on March 30th. Let's get on with the travel stuff.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0483par0086	Don't worry about the trip, don't worry about the trip.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0478par0087	If I were to describe the events of the trip in a few words, the words came to my mind: The trip was unclassified; the trip was hierarchical; the trip was disorganized, but in other ways, it was tidy.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0484par0088	Take a lesson then, take a lesson!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0478par0089	However, the most important thing on the trip was that there was a disproportionate intelligence against proportional police violence. With such a subtle sense of humor, those young men walked, using such beautiful words that nothing was found to say, and laughter was raced against authority.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0484par0090	Can you name one, someone?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0478par0091	Look, you know what those kids said: your three kids aren't enough, four kids aren't enough, five kids.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0485par0092	Five isn't enough, five isn't enough, seven is!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0478par0093	...would you like to have children like us in the streets? Those young people shouted. I'm celebrating every brave young man once again. Look, dear friends, Goethe says that freedom is something that has to be regained in every generation. Here, now, our generations are fighting again, but here's the truth: you have reset justice, reset consciences, reset money... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On March 30th, the public will reset you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0486par0098	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0487par0099	Let's go!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0488par0100	Let's go, let's go!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0489par0101	And you guys have reset the vote. What's going to happen now?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0488par0102	We'll wait for you on April 1st.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0490par0103	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0491par0104	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the bill of law 559 is to be replaced as the "responsibility board" in the framework 9th article. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0492par0111	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0491par0112	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0493par0113	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0491par0114	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0494par0115	Guys, do you know how many TOMAs there are in Turkey?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0495par0116	How much?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0494par0117	How many armored cars, how many Scorpions...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0496par0118	How many traitors are there?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0494par0119	Count it, count it again.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0497par0120	Congressman, please...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0494par0121	Traitors like you are so, so, so, so!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0498par0122	You're the traitor!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0499par0123	You're being rude, you know that? You're being rude! You can't even stand to talk, you idiot!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0500par0124	You're the one who's being a traitor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0501par0125	There are many traitors like you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0502par0126	Mr. Kaplan, let's not talk mutually, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0501par0127	Betrayer, traitor to his country, traitor to his fellow man, traitor to his country's money, betrayer, betrayer of you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0502par0128	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0501par0129	Well, you can't stand it. You can't stand the sound of treachery from people like you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0503par0130	People know about the traitor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0501par0131	Is it not necessary for you to sing, that you should speak, that it should be so?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0504par0132	The people's whistle will blow.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0501par0133	It stings when you talk here a little bit, doesn't it? You're uncomfortable with democracy, you're uncomfortable with equality, you're uncomfortable with freedom, aren't you? You're going to take the money, you're going to take the contracts, you're going to fill the crates, and you're going to say, "You're going to be uncomfortable with the congressman when he's out here." Do you know who the traitor is? It's the thieves, the traitors, the robbers, the traitors, the soldiers, the traitors, the racists, the traitors, the scalpers...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0505par0135	It's the traitors who kill soldiers.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0501par0136	...the ones who feed fascism are traitors. Do you know who the traitor is?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0506par0137	You!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0501par0138	The betrayer is the one who disbelieves in the tongue of a man, and denies his claim, and denies his word, and persists in his arrogance. It's not treason, it's not even humanity. Do you know what a traitor is?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0507par0139	Don't we know it!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0508par0140	You know it's you, you know it's you!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0501par0141	Nazim Hikmet said it was beautiful... if it was your dollars... you know, it's not new... do you know what treason is? You know, this is a country that's driven to a cliff.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0507par0142	Pointing a gun at this country, pointing a gun at this country.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0501par0143	To drag this country to a cliff and you're dragging it to a cliff. When we take a stand against your separatist behavior from here, you jump, you say, "Traitor." You're a patriot, aren't you? We've seen people burn villages saying they're patriots. They burned 4,000 villages. They said, "We are patriots." They said, "We have struggled with terror." They said, "They committed 17500 unsolved murders, they threw them into the wells of acid, they threw them into their lonely graveyards." They're traitors, look!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0507par0144	Who's investigating them now?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0501par0145	Those who walk with them are treacherous, and those who deal with them are treacherous, and those who work with them are treacherous, and those who steal with them are treacherous, and those who work with them are treacherous, and those who say, 'What shall we do with the mother of this nation?' You don't know any traitors!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0507par0146	We know, these people know, the traitor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0501par0147	Speak, speak! Speak and I'll show you where the traitors of democracy are. What you say is in you, in your soul. You've been walking parallel for 12 years and you haven't heard of it! If you're looking for a traitor, look for it yourself! If you're looking for a traitor, look for it yourself! If you want to look for your well, look for it yourself! Search and fall on it!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0507par0149	You'll see on March 30th, traitor!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0501par0150	You are the last person to say to the lovers of freedom, and to those who have rebelled, and to those who have paid a price for their people, that you should first cover up your own treachery. It's a shame about you. It's a shame you have to pay such a premium. You had a lot of traitors inside of you, so you thought there were a few of them. It's true what they say, there'll be, like, 57 more. It's not for nothing. You don't have good control, you don't have good parallel strength. You don't know where that parallel power is, you don't know what your inner traitors are gonna do. We have three choices ahead of us. You'll have to watch out for traitors who attack out of nowhere. You'll pay attention to those who still think there'll be capital in the literature of treason, and they'll sell you for a dime. We are a party that stands by our promise, stands by what he speaks, stands upright for the democracy of this country, and can answer for it when it comes to it. You can't understand it, that's what you don't understand, that's what you do wrong. You're used to running around the country all you want. You guys won't be able to run it, it's over. Take all the TOMA, gas, use all the armed forces you want, but treason will cause you trouble, I'm telling you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Face your own treachery first, then come and call someone else a traitor. That's good; how many traitors are there, you do a statistic, we'll see, then we'll talk more about who's the traitor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0509par0155	This nation knows about traitors.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0510par0156	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the clause of Article 23 of Article 23 of Law 2911 be removed from the text of the clause "by the entity" (J) in which the following article is supposed to be replaced with Article 9 of the framework of the bill under which the bill shall be changed in various Laws with the aim of developing basic rights and freedoms. Mahir Ünal (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0511par0163	We're giving it to you, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0510par0164	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0512par0165	We agree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0510par0166	Mustafa Elitaş, Kayseri MP.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0513par0168	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. As the speaker was speaking here, he said, "How many TOMAs do you have, how many Scorpions do you have, how many tanks do you have, how many cannons do you have? How many rifles do you have?" From there, our friend said: "How many traitors are there in this country?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0514par0170	Why did the preacher take it upon himself?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0513par0171	I mean, why did he take it on? Why did he do that? We're here to...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0515par0172	▪ How many thieves are there? Would you not take it upon yourself? How many thieves are there in this country?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0516par0173	▪ How many thieves are there? Why do you jump when you say that? Why are you jumping when you say Elitaş is a thief?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0513par0174	...we don't express any issues with TOMA. Why did you stick it on yourself that you were a traitor? Why were you taken from the traitor?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0515par0175	Then why are you taking it personally? No one can even call me a thief on the street these days, so you let me in. Why are you offended?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0513par0176	None of our fellow lawmakers here have any idea who this TOMA is about. This is TOMA, the state's TOMA.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0515par0177	He'll know what he's talking about! He'll know what he's talking about! He'll know what he's saying, Mr. Elitaş!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0517par0178	He'll hear what you're saying and you'll hear it, Elitaş! You'll hear it too! You're in charge.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0518par0179	Listen!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0519par0180	But how many traitors are there? Why do you feel treacherous?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0520par0181	You can't intimidate us, even if we're alone. There's an idiot... you called Nazim Hikmet a traitor, you called Deniz Gezmişe a traitor here! You can't! But you're traitors.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0519par0182	Mr. Kaplan, I'm asking you, are you a traitor that you react so strongly? Do you know who the traitor is? He is the traitor who brutally kills the children of this country. Children in the classrooms of this country, children in their schools...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0521par0183	You are the traitor, the thief is the traitor, he who robs the country is the traitor, he who commits corruption is the traitor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0519par0184	Mr. President, there are two people here...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0521par0185	That's right...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0519par0186	Look, I'm just saying that because of some congressman...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0522par0187	Here you go. I'll warn him.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0521par0188	You can't just... You're the Group President, aren't you?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0523par0189	You're not gonna make those idiots talk to us!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0524par0190	Excuse me... excuse me...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0525par0191	No offense, no offense!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0526par0192	Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Star... please, let's hear it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0527par0193	You're not gonna make idiots talk like that!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0528par0194	Warning! Warning!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0526par0195	I warned you, I warned you...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0529par0196	Look, in this country, the man who killed the baby in his mother's belly is a traitor, a terrorist is a traitor, the man who martyred his soldier is a traitor, I protect the Kurds.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0528par0198	Get out of here, come on! Elitaş, how many strings do you play, how many strings! You can't turn off your thefts, you can't turn off your treachery with it. You can't shut anyone up with such nasty attacks.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0526par0199	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0529par0200	Why are you offended? Why are you offended? Hasip Kaplan, why are you offended? I'm protecting the rights of the Kurds. I say he's the traitor who slaughtered the Kurds, why are you offended?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0526par0201	Mr. Elitaş, please address the General Assembly. Dear Elitaş... Mr. Kaplan, please sit down.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0529par0203	You are acting with the government, who have slaughtered all the people who have worked for this country's national unity, who have evacuated the villages there, who have evacuated the villages.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0530par0204	You're partners, you're partners, you're partners! Most of the people who work for you. How many of you are on duty? Can you tell me how many of them are on that mission? How many of you are in charge? If you're looking for the traitor, you'll be looking for it!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0529par0205	...the man who drove those people from their homeland, their homeland, is a traitor. I'm asking you why you're offended. Are you doing all this, and you're offended? Are you doing all this? Are you offended? From there, do you know who thought anything of this country's beka and future, and who did wrong, those traitors? You're jumping, you're jumping, you're jumping, you're jumping. Why are you jumping? Are you a traitor?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0530par0206	Do not be treacherous. Look...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0531par0207	Mr. Kaplan, please... Mr. Elitaş, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0532par0209	Well, that's the big question here. There's something about you that, with the situation inside of you...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0533par0210	Mr. President, do as the Civil Code requires, Mr. President. A bunch of vice presidents saw the crowd, cocking up here!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0531par0212	Mr. Elitaş, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0533par0213	We've seen a lot of cocks like you! We've seen a lot of your premature cocks. Don't talk! Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0534par0214	Mr. President, will you do what is required of this Civil Code! Mr. President, will you do what is required by the Civil Code!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0531par0215	Mr. Kaplan, please... Mr. Kaplan, please take your seat. Address the General Assembly and you, Mr. Elitaş...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0534par0217	Dear lawmakers, I hope we get this law out. Our friend just said in the section until he came to Article 4 of the law...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0535par0218	Tell me what they want, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0534par0219	If we can form a separate group, including five, when we meet with five, give us the means.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0535par0220	What possibilities?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0534par0221	So give them the financial - aid opportunities of the state.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0536par0222	We didn't say that!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0537par0223	You're giving away your father's property!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0534par0224	Yeah, I'm saying that was your motion, that was your motion. You're not aware of the motion. I'm saying you're not aware of the motion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0536par0225	We talked and made a motion, and we didn't say that. Don't turn him away now!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0534par0226	No, you're not aware of the motion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0536par0227	You have the power to mislead everything.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0534par0228	Look, dear lawmakers, I'm also telling my BDP friends that there is no way that the amendment to Article 2820 will be implemented in the next election. Because the 67th Article of the Constitution prevents this. It has no ability to apply for elections within a year, but it can be implemented in the general election in 2015. But you'll have to bring it in and do it like this. If you don't do that, I'll show you the obstacle. That's what Elitaş does. To put it like that...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0538par0229	That's blackmail.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0534par0230	He knows the Constitution, and I believe he knows it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0539par0231	That's all he knows.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0540par0232	I mean, you think you're buying it, don't you?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0534par0233	But because it doesn't suit him, because he's doing populism, he's only doing this to people there, to people in his area, to make politics. Again, you're going to do all kinds of insults here, none of our friends are saying anything. You say "thief." We're not offended.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0541par0235	We're not taking it personally.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0534par0236	But last time, our Deputy Director Ahmet Bey said something very nice, so he thought everyone who had a sense of theft, who couldn't stop thinking about stealing, would be a thief.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0542par0237	That's right, that's what he said, Mr. President, yes.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0534par0238	Look, it says here: there's a TOMA. Do you know how many TOMAs there are?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0543par0239	So you have a sense of treachery. And by Aristotle's logic, there's no end to your sense of treachery.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0534par0240	And our friend says, naively, how many traitors there are in this country, because you're trying to teach democracy here, you're claiming to be an encyclopedia, and he says, "Is there such a thing?"
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0543par0241	What is this?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0544par0242	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's a shame!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0543par0243	What's with the attitude? Shame on you! Shame on all of you!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0545par0244	I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0543par0246	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0546par0247	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are four motions on Article 10 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the declaration of the "Or chairman of the board" (a) which follows the declaration of the First Amendment of Article No. 2911, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 10 in the framework of the Law on the Purpose of Development of Basic Rights and Freedoms and (b), we submit and submit the proposal to be added to the "or the chairman of the board of the board." Mahir Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Your love Look Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Ali Şahin Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 2nd sentence of the 2nd sentence (b) of the 24th article of the Law and Demonstration Marchs Act, which has been replaced by Article 10 in the framework of the 559 rows. Pervin Buldan Layla Zana Hasip Kaplan Secret by Dareyya Leader Bengi Star Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 559 Orders of the Numbered Bill 10th. Substituted with Article 2911 of Article 24 of Article 1 of Article C, "c) With the written or hasty confirmation of the decision to call off the meeting, Mahallin's chief of the largest estate will report it to the security commander and the regulator at the site. We propose and recommend that it be changed in the form of a subsidiary. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Rusar Demirel Mehmet Şandir Ali Öz Mehmet Günal Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu S. Nevzat Don't Fear Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 10th Amendment to various Laws in the aim of developing 559 Orders of Basic Rights and Freedoms. Article 1 of the article. We propose that the joke (b) and (c) be replaced as follows: "b) If the regulatory committee fails to carry out this mission, it will be reported by the head of the state regulatory board to its top property manager. It is decided by Mahallin's chief of the largest estate if the meeting will be terminated. "C) Mahallin's chief of the largest estate, under written orders, sends security officers to the crime scene, or one of them." Celal Dinçer Ali Özgündüz Ali Riza Özturk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0547par0279	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0546par0280	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0548par0281	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0546par0282	Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion. (HPP clapping in rows)
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0549par0283	Mr. President, in a speech I made approximately ten days ago, I said that the seals called Mediterranean seals were disbanded and their breeding grounds were destroyed because of the construction of ports in Silifke Yeşilovacık district, and now, I see a Mediterranean seal cub dying in something that's wandering the Internet. I told you then, I invited the Prime Minister and the Minister of Environment to the post. Democracy is actually a concept that includes environmental rights. Now, democratization today is a concept where fundamental rights and freedoms are expanded to the extreme. Dear lawmakers, with this law that we're discussing today, the Law on Meetings and Show Marches is a law that is more bound by stricter conditions that restricts more rights. In fact, it is not possible to say that it provides democratisation in terms of meeting and demonstration walks; rather, it is a concrete indication of how an increasingly authoritarian government restricts rights and freedoms under the name ▪democratization. In the 23rd term, we all tried to make some changes in the Law on Meetings and Show Marches, with a law known as the Law on Children who Throw stones in public. And now it's coming back, and it's coming back harder. I'm asking the Minister: I mean, is it a limitation of the use of constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms to democratization? Less freedom with security concerns or democratization? In fact, it's an internal matter, not democratizing people by saying we've become democratic. It's an internal matter, it's important to digest it. It is not appropriate for the Justice and Development Party's historical mission to democratize because its policies defend a culture, such as the relationship between the state and the individual should be based on obedience. Now, however, the relationship between the state and the individual today is not a matter of guaranteeing the rights of the state, but rather a notion of promoting the right to an individual in front of the holy state, instead of the holy state, the fearless and free individual. The honorable MPs, the Balyoz case, the Ergenekon case, the Oda TV, the Poyrazköy case had polished the star of many prosecutors, judges, police, and the shining stars one by one disappeared. In the end, you know, there was a witness at TÜBITIAK, who was an expert on those cases, who took and examined all the CDAILs, even though the prosecutors of those cases were not on the municipal coroner's list, they appointed this person by name. Just five days before the prosecutor's letter arrived at TÜBITAK, this person was going to the courts, and he was taking those so-called digital data from the courts, and he was studying them. Reports of 28 of the world's and Turkey's most important universities and private institutions were not valid; reports of cyber security were valid. This person's name is Amazing Bahshi. This was later brought to the head of the Institute for Cybersecurity Crimes in TÜBITAK, as director, as branch manager, but now Bakırköy IV. The High Criminal Court lifted the ruling the previous day that this was not a grounds for a retrial in the case of a false witness. He will now be sued, and today, if I have not received false information, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology has removed this person from his post, and even the prime minister, who did this to others, said, "What will he not do?" And I heard today that he has also annulled his contract. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, this shows how much false evidence you've based on the decisions made in those cases. I just want to say that unless the decisions made in those cases are a subject of retrial, you can't democratize in this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0550par0291	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0551par0292	There's been a fraud case.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0552par0293	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0550par0294	I submit the motion to your votes. I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, no motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 559 Orders of the Numbered Bill 10th. Substituted with Article 2911 of Article 24 of Article 1 of Article C, "c) With the written or hasty confirmation of the decision to call off the meeting, Mahallin's chief of the largest estate will report it to the security commander and the regulator at the site. We propose and recommend that it be changed in the form of a subsidiary. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0553par0303	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0550par0304	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0554par0305	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0550par0306	Faruk Bal Konya MP who wants a word on the motion. Applause from MHP rows)
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0555par0307	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if the purpose of this bill were to be democratization, our proposal would be accepted in this matter, which is set up with a twisted logic. The discrepancy is this: This article (a) is arranged by the Editorial Board to disband the meeting; the (b) joke is that if the Editorial Board does not break up the meeting, the main property manager of the site is authorized to disband the meeting; the (c) joke is that security forces are being called in. But the arrangement in the (c) joke was written in such confusion that it is not possible to get it right and apply it correctly. So we said, "Do your work with the oral order to be written or later written in writing or in haste to end the meeting expressed in Mahallin's greatest supervisor (a) joke and (b) joke, one to the largest security officer in the region." Two, he says, "Let there be no conflict, and the Editorial Board there be informed of the decision to distribute it as much as possible, and the Editorial Board will distribute it herself." If this is -- as a suggestion -- is democratization, if you want to make a proper law, you have to say yes. But in a vague manner, perhaps this motion will be rejected without reading it, without understanding the reason. Let them refuse, we've already expressed that this has nothing to do with democratization, and our opinion has been confirmed again. Let's get to history class. My dear friends went to the married village, the village, after the persecution of the Ottomans, and each nation set up their own state with a number of conflicts on the fronts. So, we said that around 62 states were formed, and that left the Turks with a job to build a state. We've been trying to explain how Halaskaran Zabitan turned his soul into a war of independence into a war of independence by reviving its spirit in the territory of Anatolia. The torch of that war of independence was lit in Diyarbakir. My dear friends... Mr. President, would you please warn the left side? She's having a conversation, guys. The torch of that struggle for independence was lit in Diyarbakır. The newspapers, published by Ziya Gökalp and Sulejman Nazif., in Diyarbakır, burned the torch in Diyarbakır on the spirit of the Turkish nation in order to unite the Turkish nation in the spirit of Kuvaimilli and fight the independence of the Turkish nation, in the face of the fact that it has come to the invasion of the Russians and the French occupation and the fact that it has come to Istanbul, which is a share of these occupations. This torch was torched in Diyarbakır by international forces, as you say, outside forces were asked to be cut off by those forces. One of them was the President of the United States before the Sevr Agreement -- the President of the United States at that time as President Wilson (or President Wilson) -- 18 articles that gave order to the world. Mr. President, would you please warn these friends that they're disrupting my staff!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0556par0313	Mr. Honey, they're already hearing the speeches.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0555par0314	I can hear them, but I can't explain myself.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0556par0315	Congressmans, please... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0555par0317	America, becoming a new global power, declares the world an 18-point manifesto. It's called the Wilson Principles. There are two articles in this 18-point manifest, which, although the state is officially the Ottoman State at that time, one is about Turkey and one is about Turks. The thing about Turkey is that Turks have the authority to govern in Turkey, Asia Minor, but as much as other nations. The Turkish issue, however, is that the Turks have no authority to govern outside Anatolia. These two articles have formed the substructure of the Sevr Agreement, and have left Asia Minor to two serious problems that will provoke, keep the Turkish nation busy for a hundred years. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One of these problems is the Armenian expansion problem, and the second is the Kurdish expansion problem. So the problem with you two is that you have to move Wilson's classics back to today's era from the 1910s.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0556par0321	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0557par0322	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0556par0323	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 2nd sentence of the 2nd sentence (b) of the 24th article of the Law and Demonstration Marchs Act, which has been replaced by Article 10 in the framework of the 559 rows. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0558par0330	He doesn't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0556par0331	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0559par0332	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0556par0333	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0560par0334	Meeting demonstration walks are the speech of democratic society. Susan, in societies speaking against societies, demonstration walks are not just a rally, they are not just a rally in the polls; they have press statements from time to time, they have different modes from the distribution of certain statements except press statements to the introductions, to home visits. Every event, meeting, the understanding that puts on a show permit is a problem with totalitarian regimes. Look, nearly 10,000 politicians are arrested in Turkey, and in these politicians, we have our mayors, we have our deputies, and we have our party managers. All of these have opposition to Law 2911. Why do you have it? He's counting unlicensed demonstrations, he's taking a violation from there; the police say, "Get down." Two people throw stones there, oh, he's resisting police, he's adding a second offense; he's squeezing the gas; this time he's taking money from the government when someone throws a stone. I mean, all of a sudden, he's up to twenty, twenty-five years in detention. Apart from that, those who have taken Turkey are on trial for twenty, twenty-five years or two years. Anyway, with the last bag change, his search, his security has been lifted. From now on, you don't have to do politics, you don't have to do anything else, you set up an organization under TCK 220, you take a couple of partners, you make them walk, nobody says anything to you, nobody gets punished. In two years, it's already postponed when you hit the lower bounds. So in this country, political parties are the essential elements of democracy. The word is a story, and if it is part of the Constitution, it is a story. If a government does not look at it that way, according to the Anti-Terror Law, a political party considers the decisions made by the party's party council and its activities within the framework of those decisions as an unauthorized demonstration, and considers terrorism a crime and judges its Anti-Terror Law, there is no part of democracy in that country. Because the activities of political parties are under the control of the Constitutional Court. Taking it out of the Constitutional Court's control and taking it into account of the Anti-Terror Law and special-government courts has been a terrible practice by the AK PARTI governments. Now, there's talk of solutions, responsibility. What about these people, they've been under arrest for over five years? If you're not going to take out what's in there, if you're not going to land on the mountain, if you're not going to open the democratic channels, can you tell us how the ideas are going to compete? When we talk about it a little bit, when we talk a little bit, I see your fuses are going off. So we're not the keepers of your insurance, we don't expect everything from us, so you're going to have some intimacy, and you're going to have some responsibility in the process. If you don't, everyone loses, you're on the same boat, right? That's what you'll think. If you can't assess that responsibility by carrying it, the outcome will be severe for everyone. That's what we're saying. And when we say that, it's a problem. If only those who oppose us could be as open, honest, and upright as the MHP. It turns out that people who say they're not against it are attacking in much worse positions. That's not something we can accept. Some things go on the basis of trust, the basis of intimacy. If anyone is surprised here, those who are surprised will lose, and we say it clearly, and of course we will express your shortcomings. We've given you a package of democracy; 25 articles; not enough; we've given the Parliament a package to guarantee the peace process. You throw everything away, you know everything! You don't know, it's not going to work out with you. There's two sides to everything, guys. Either we're gonna think this through cold-bloodedly, or the consequences won't be good, that's clear.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0561par0337	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the declaration of the "Or chairman of the board" (a) which follows the declaration of the First Amendment of Article No. 2911, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 10 in the framework of the Law on the Purpose of Development of Basic Rights and Freedoms and (b), we submit and submit the proposal to be added to the "or the chairman of the board of the board." Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0562par0344	We're giving it to you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0561par0345	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0563par0346	We agree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0561par0347	I'm reading the reason: Under the amendment to Article 12 of Law 2911, the decision to disband is made by the Council or the Chairman of the Board if the purpose of a meeting is out of bounds or if it is deemed impossible to take place in order, and it is immediately declared to the head of law enforcement. However, the proposed amendment to Article 24 will be organised by the regulatory board for certain tasks regarding the distribution of the meeting and demonstration march. However, those powers were not granted to the chairman of the board, which was placed in Article 12. Thus, it is intended to prevent any problems that may occur in practice, which may be added to relevant jokes.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0564par0350	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0561par0351	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is accepted, the decision is sufficient. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one have been completed. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers the 11th and 18th article. Burhan Kuzu, MP of İstanbul, has asked for a comment on the second chapter on behalf of the Commission. Here you go, Mr. Lamb.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0565par0359	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I stand before you to make a few statements. I salute you all. Now, this package, of course, is a package of democracy. That's what we call it, we think we got it right. Democracy, of course, is a relative concept; there are more advanced, less developed, more advanced democratic models than good democracy, bad democracy.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0566par0361	Dear Lamb, no one believes it, it's all out.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0565par0362	In a sense, it's a way of life.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0566par0363	The AKP Group doesn't believe it, it's all out.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0565par0364	I'm already telling the opposition, and they know about it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0566par0366	You tell them, and they'll learn about democracy. Some of them didn't go to that class, so let them find out.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0565par0367	I'm telling the opposition, they already know, they already know what it's about, and I've already come out for you, or I wouldn't have come out for you, so what do I do? Maybe you'll find out if you listen. Yes, I'd like to shed some light on some points now. First of all, this is a lot of discussion about helping parties. And in the world, it's not solved. Why do you need help with parties, dear friends? So it's not in the direction of some kind of power focus. Parties get a lot of help, don't they? That's a different matter, but that's why he's talking. What's the measurement? There are a few measurements in the world. One is given according to the number of votes they receive. In some countries, the vote rate they receive is paid by multiplying to any currency; let's say they get this much vote, one vote is multiplied by this much, and they get it back. In some countries, it's based on the number of MPs, based on grouping in some countries. So there's no measurement. But what's common is that it's based on the vote, according to the vote in general. In 10 percent, it was 7 percent, more or less, we've drawn it to 3 percent. That's a lot to take down. When you take it to 1%, it turns the parties on. We don't think it's true, and there aren't a few alternatives to the same thing. I think that's why Hasip Bey is angry. I mean, why? Because there's no group situation here, there's no election party here. In a sense, sir, they enter the area in the form of one person, sort of independent, and then party. We can't keep up with him, of course. So that's another status because you're setting a rule here, and it doesn't fit. That's just the way it is for now, but I don't know what it's gonna be like in the future. The second thing is about these parties, about the election dam. Dear friends, I've told you many times that the election dam is 10 per cent high, but it's obvious in Turkey that the 10 per cent dam is high. Before 1980, Turkey was miserable, miserable, miserable. Seven months of government, six months of government, no nine months in, one giving birth properly. Now, what's he going to do in a government like this? They had to take it upstairs. Oh, did that help?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0567par0370	What else can they do? That's all the inheritance you've inherited.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0565par0371	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0567par0372	What else can they do?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0565par0373	Excuse me. However, look, in Turkey...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0567par0375	Don't be mean, don't always be mean.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0568par0376	Don't interfere, listen! We're listening, Hajji.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0569par0378	However, in Turkey, sir, there were ten parties, seven or eight parties.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0570par0379	Make no mistake, my friends are learning our history wrong.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0569par0380	Despite the 10 percent dam, you've formed four-way coalitions...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0571par0381	He passed, he passed.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0569par0382	...and those coalitions have also suffered misery; our development is obvious, our development is obvious, foreign policy is present. I'm saying this in general, no one should take it personally, that's what happened. Then what should we do? They said, "Let's build a dam like this." Would you honor the Supreme Court, the Court of Human Rights? You will. They both say: "The dam of ten percent is not high. I think it's high. That's another matter. But it's not a question of bringing it down. Why is this dam built? Dear friends, the cause of this dam is that there are two electoral systems in the world -- one of which is stability, and one of which is representation. Now, they say, "Let's do both together." They don't get along. In the world, these two primary choice models... if you call them the majority model, it brings stability, if you call them relative representations, it brings justice, but if you do it alone, when you're mixed up, there's no such thing, sir, there's no such thing as Jesus or Moses. That's the state of Turkey, and that's the state of the world. Right now, look, there are 80 types of election models in the world. I'm saying 80 different kinds, I'm not exaggerating. And mathematicians have found it, not lawyers; it's a formula that mathematics has come up with. So, what's the world doing? Now in Europe, for example, the highest threshold is 7 percent in Russia, and we have 10 percent in the dam. But there's something else out there. For example, let's say, sir, in Germany, it's 5 percent dam, but let's say with Russia -- let's say with half of it -- half of it represents relative, half of it chooses, so it's trying to make stability and justice together, and he's found something else. To Italy, he often selects three quarters, and one quarter by relative representation. So what I'm trying to say is that we have a lot of parties, we have a good democracy. There's no logic. It's ancient history. The point of the world today is that a sane government, a decent opposition, and civil society organizations are strong. In a country that can be achieved, that's democracy. I've got 20 parties here, no law, no bread; my party's too much. If you ask me, dear friends, there's no answer.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0572par0388	You're talking about the presidential system, Hodja.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0569par0389	Now that we have the solution, the AK PARTI has found the solution. The radical solution is that you're going to be in this country, and the presidential model is completely stable. Look, I'm telling you, be careful, separate. You take down all the dams, justice is served. You get 1% here, it's represented by him; you get 5%, you come here with 5 percent. That's the solution. Sir, our Constitution has written it. What does the Constitution say? Let me finish with this, there are other matters, but I won't take up your time. Our Constitution says: justice in choice, stability in governance. Believe me, when I read it -- I write it down, it hangs across the street -- I like it so much. So we're going to get justice in the representation, and we're going to get stability. So what's it gonna be? They'll be together at the same time. It means that he should not die or die. You can't do both. That's why the dam goes down, it goes up, there's something else going on, and we're not getting any results, dear friends. In that way, let's draw the 10 percent threshold to 5, the bidding process. What did you say? Two percent, one percent. There's no such thing as a way in the world, and there's no such thing. I had to explain that. Thank you very much. There are other things, but I'll tell you something else: I mean, it's not right to call the package of democracy the package of destruction. I don't think I'm right about all of this, taking each other all the way to the homeland thing with such heavy accusations. Let me just say that here in some way. So while we criticize the government, while we criticize each other, I think we all know the measure of patriotism, I think we're working for the same thing, we're working for this country, but our style is different, our style is different, and I think that's the way it should be. With these thoughts and feelings, I pay my respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0573par0395	Mr. President, thank you. Now, Ugur Bayraktutan, Artvin MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group to speak on its behalf.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0574par0398	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the second chapter of the 559th Amendment. I salute your high council. At the beginning of my words, before I got to the point, I visited the Istanbul MP Engin Alan Pasha yesterday in Sincan Prison. He sent me a note saying I should say it in Parliament. I want to read this here. Engin Alan Pasha says I have no interest in Mr. Speaker's legal identity in this country where he was murdered. However, I find it difficult to understand how you construed two different applications to two lawmakers in the same situation with a conscience. But I also know that this is the saving of another will, not his own. If that's true -- which is true -- it's a shame. I saw him standing up, and I want to express him once again. Now, dear lawmakers, we're discussing a package of democracy here. I want to tell you about the current painting in the European Court of Human Rights about whether Turkey passed a test on the package of democracy, what its grade was. The European Court of Human Rights, as it is known, has the authority to judge on rights violations from 1959 to this side. Starting in 1987, Turkey has the right to apply for a fair trial and freedom of expression at the European Court of Human Rights. So, after many years, we have in a sense recognised the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights made about 1,093 decisions from then until now, especially in 2012. In this 1,093 decision, 903 decisions are based solely on the violation of at least one clause of the European Convention on Human Rights. In this 903 decision, there are 122 violations of Russia, 117 violations of Turkey, which means Turkey is number 2 in this regard. But soon thereafter, there is an interesting picture of what position Turkey is in regarding rights violations in the European Court of Human Rights. Look, now, there are 2,870 rights violations of Turkey from that date alone to this moment, from 1987 to this date. Turkey is the champion, the first. We did not recognize the authority of the ECHR in 1959, and after more than twenty years, we recognized that authority, and we are the 1st. If we had known from 59 to this direction, we would have wondered how many files we had on human rights violations. Now, at this point, what are we at at the European Court of Human Rights? So we have to discuss whether there's a real democratization or not, my dear friends. Look, most importantly, there are arrangements here for meetings and demonstration walks. The European Court of Human Rights on violations of meetings and demonstrations, Turkey is the first with 57 files, notice, 57 files and 1st. My dear Teacher listens very carefully, thank you. On violation of the right to a fair trial, Turkey is European 1 (755 cases and European 1), Turkey 639 cases for violation of property rights, Europe 1 (1) and Turkey 215 cases for freedom of thought and expression, and European 1 (e.g. 215) valuable friends. Look, this is the painting now. Now, I'm moving on to another dimension. Now, there's also a democracy index of The Economist, which is related to Turkey and the whole world. Everyone's probably read about it in the papers. According to this democracy index, Turkey is the 88th ranking of my dear friends among 165 countries, the painting is grave. Now, if he has any claim that you've brought this bill to bring us down from the 88th place, Mr. Secretary, we'll appreciate it, we'll applaud it from here. I wonder how much lower you're going to take us from 88 when these 18 articles pass through Parliament in the morning. Now, while the democracy index here is being implemented, five basic criteria are being discussed, a political index is being introduced according to the five basic criteria. What are these? One of them, they say, is the selection system and pluralism. It's one of the most basic criteria. A second basic criteria are being set, it says: human rights. What is your situation with human rights, and what is your picture of it? Third: the work of the government. They call it the act of the government, they present an actual situation in relation to the government's actions. They also present a fourth situation: political participation. The fifth article: political culture. They're trying to create a new picture by taking five of these, and they interpret the countries' democratic indexes accordingly, and they divide them into four basic chapters. One of them is: full democracies. In what countries is it applied? The United States, Germany, Great Britain are applied in 25 countries around the world, dear friends. There are imperfect democracies behind them, and in imperfect democracies are European countries such as France, Greece. Right behind them comes hybrid regimes. Unfortunately, Turkey is among the hybrid regimes. Autocratic regimes are coming right behind us. Now, there are six or seven signs of hybrid regimes. How practical it is for our country, how important it is for our country, I want to tell you now, my dear friends. Look, what are the characteristics of hybrid regimes? It's called: ) regimes often violate the rules, preventing elections from being held free and fair. 2) The regimes where the pressure of power on the opposition has been significantly increased. 3) Political culture, the government's conduct and the difficulties with political power. 4) The tendency of corruption to become widespread is to quickly move away from the legal state. 5) Pressure and harassment on journalists is a violation of media independence. 6) The loss of judicial independence. Now, do you know what countries we are in the hybrid regimes as Turkey, my dear friends? I'll give you three examples: Tanzania, Kenya and Moritania. In hybrid regimes, according to The Economist's definition of democracy, we stand side by side with these countries, but to me, the Economist has done an injustice to my dear friends. I'm now reading you the definitions of autocratic regimes. I think there's a problem here, so if they had made that description after December 17th, they'd probably put us in the fourth place. Their definition of autocratic regimes includes the following, they say, there is no political pluralism if there is an autocratic regime. Some are ruled by direct dictatorship. They have democratic institutions, but they don't work. Elections are not free and fair if they're made. Basic rights and freedoms are ignored. The media is not independent in any way, it is controlled by units close to the administration. There's a lot of censorship and criticism. Judgement is in no way independent. Now from here, I ask the Minister, under what circumstances was this 18-point bill brought in? We know what happened. Let me be clear: this yellow ox is a yellow ox, but this yellow ox will not be enough, my dear friends. We know who brought it for what purpose, and we know how far it's gonna go, but it's not gonna be enough, this yellow ox, you know that. Now, at the coming point, in the definition of such a democracy -- as I have just stated -- what good is it to manipulate these 165 countries in the 88th place, and to define this Economist, as well as the number figures that I've just expressed by the European Court of Human Rights, if we're not pulling us up? Isn't it our right as opposition MP to ask that? Can you believe all this? With these arrangements that you've made, you think you're going to be more democratic by solving the problems of language with the financial rights that we've just expressed? In my district, there's no problem with language in the constituency where I've been, nor does any of them say that we'll arrange it this way. You know what need this is, my dear friends. Look, the Minister has just expressed here -- Mr. Akif Hamzacebi warned me -- that if the Minister had said these words five years ago, the apocalypse would have exploded, yes, the negotiations with the terrorist organization are being held by the MIT, and we are talking with their political extensions. In Kayseri Square, the Prime Minister's word stands in the air, my dear friends, do you remember? He said he was the bastard who met with the terrorist organization. Who was right? We were right. Our concern is that the United States is the Republic of Turkey. But there is one thing you forget in this land: no matter what, no matter what the circumstances, Mustafa Kemal will not die in this country, Ataturk will not be defeated. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0575par0423	Thank you. Bengi Yildiz, Batman MP, who has asked for the Peace and Democracy Party Group to speak on behalf of the department. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0576par0426	Thank you, Mr. President. This package, called a package of democratisation, did not have a serious public response because all arrangements were made late and incomplete. This package, which was marketed with a loud noise months ago, is not even a topic of discussion as of today. I looked at the newspapers today, the Internet, the columnists, the package of democratization is being discussed in Parliament, and what are the comments? And believe me, I haven't seen a single story about it, because it's a long-lost, worn-out arrangement, unfortunately, and the day the Prime Minister announced this package, especially in the cities in the region, people were looking forward to coffee, televisions. In this package -- Mr. Deputy Prime Minister -- we have a study of Alevis in particular -- a great expectation of Alevis, or rather public opinion, non-Muslims, but those expectations, of course, were not included in this package. In our opposition to this package, we also expressed the positive aspects of the package, and we felt the need to specify the negative aspects. Unfortunately, those who run Turkey are in complete ignorance of the Kurdish issue, Kurds and Kurdish history, if you will. Our universities are redeveloping official history, and the managers are repeating these official history arguments. What's the problem? As someone has pointed out, we need to see if it's been a problem for the last twenty or thirty years, or if it's a historical problem. In this geography, as some say, the Kurds are not a people, an ethnic structure that has just emerged and demanded rights. Until the 1800s, the Kurds continued their lives in the form of autonomy in both the Seljukian Empire and the Ottoman Empire. Especially those who know the history of the Ottomans, who know the history of Yavuz Sultan Selim and Legal Sultan Süleyman, at the time of an agreement with the Kurds in the war with the Safavi, especially since the Kurds were on the Ottoman side of the Ottoman Empire, is a situation that we can find in all the books, in all the books, in all the books, in all the books, and in particular in the history of the Ottoman Empire. What happened? In particular, there were certain movements in the Ottoman Empire, along with the Western nationalism movement. Until then, the Ottoman Empire evolved into a central system, just like the European states, instead of autonomous structures it had provided for the fiefs, and sent large armies over the autonomous fiefs until then. At this time, especially in the early 1800s - led by a German general, under the leadership of Karl Moltke - there are expeditions to Kurdistan, and the riots begin. The first uprising in this sense was the rebellion of the Kurds of your Father in Solomoniye in 1806. The state's approach to the demands of Kurds to govern themselves with their own identities has been a complete colonial state policy. We have not acted as colonists. Let us respond with concrete examples. One, Fevzi Lighter says in his report: you can't win by being caressed. The management of the school should be treated like colonial colonial rule, and a colonial administration must be established here. This is already being done, especially with the Law of Education. ▪ Kurdish society must be dissolved. After that, Turkish law must be implemented slowly. The obligatory residence must be implemented. The chiefs, gentlemen, Aghas, and pilgrims must be sent west so that they will never come again. ▪ Local officers of Kurdish origin must be removed from the region altogether. Another state official, Interior Minister and Tekirdağ MP at the time, Cemil Uybadın, who wrote in his report, says: "Kürdistan must be managed in the form of public governorship and in the form of a colony. Ismet Pasha: In Kurdistan, general inspectorship will be the main administration for the eastern provinces. They won't have jobs they can't interfere with. A special court regime in this area will be appointed by law. None of the crash officers will be local. The court order of the courts here will be simple, private, certain. In implementing the death sentence, these governors will be in charge of the execution. As a result, Seyit Reza and his companions are hanged in this way. Public Inspector Avni Doğan: The settlement of the Republic to the east is like the settlement of civilized nations to Africa. I draw your attention to this: the settlement of the Republic to the east is like the settlement of civilized nations to Africa. We can say that this language is still dominant. What comes from this colonial understanding? The Sharq Islahat Plan, basically, is interfering with the structure of the region's population. The Kurdish population is located in western regions. The construction of glorious outposts and government mansions, the spread of boarding district schools, the education of children from families in Turkish, the weighting of Turkish propaganda through Turkish January, the importance of teaching women in Turkish, the ban of Kurdish, the Turkish language of these people... Then the mandatory housing law is passed, and tens of thousands of Kurds are driven from their settlements to western provinces. During this process, relatives, tribes are scattered far away from each other. Until further notice, the Kurds have been subjected to extraordinary trials in an extraordinary form of governance, with their sovereign courts, the State of Emergency Act and the regional governorate system. What is it about language bans, the evacuation of thousands of villages, the removal of millions from their homes, the changing of the names of thousands of villages, the people not naming their children in their own language? The above findings, all the findings in the reports, have been carried out by the republic's governments one by one, and these regulations continue. Why did I say that, dear friends? There are still certain oratories coming out of space, so as if the Kurds were not a prime factor in this geography, they've never had autonomy, they've never built a state, they've had a language, they've had a culture, they've been doing an evaluation based on the last 80 years, the hundred years, and they've been referring to a thousand years of brotherhood law. If there's a thousand-year-old brotherhood law, then it's probably not really a foster-son thing, it's a relationship between equals. In this geography, if the Kurds were from Malazgirt to 1514, from Çanakkale to the Salvation War, they had just referred to them as friends in Diyarbakır, here in Diyarbakır, the first freedom torches were lit, the first resistances had begun, we know, and the conventions had been made in Sivas, Erzurum. When we refer to a date like this, there's this resistance... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There was a cut, there was a people, there was a language, there was a civilization. I think it's probably the most disrespectful thing to do to that thousand-year history to single him out today and run a policy on that. I salute all of you, and I don't think there's anyone here!
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0577par0445	There's no one there.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0578par0446	Thank you. Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin, has asked for a speech on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Your Honor, you have a five-minute request on your behalf, 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0579par0451	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. At this time of night, we're fulfilling a pattern. This is a negotiation, a mutual agreement, not a study; we meet an obligation from the Civil Code. In fact, the law we're talking about is an arrangement for the development of fundamental rights and freedoms, a package of democratisation, referred to as "democratisation." I mean, for our country, it's a very ambitious definition of the future, and it's a very important issue. Democracy, democracy, the most valuable common denominator in this country. The will to live together, the promise of a future, the project of democracy and democratization. On such a ambitious subject, I couldn't count on an 18-point bill -- but I think there are 7-8 law proposals, brought together -- which I think would mean that we can claim that our democratic shame, which the speaker of the Republican People's Party has just expressed, our lack of democracy, could be completed, would really, make fun of ourselves, of our own mind. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I invite you to think together. I don't mean the power opposition, the rhetoric of opposition politics, but there are some facts that need to be expressed. 18 articles of democratization package declared by Mr. Prime Minister after long studies, brought to us by a single power that completed 11 years in its 12th year as a package of democratisation and brought to us as a project. If you look at the reason, there are two reasons: one is that the European Union in its progress reports, the European Court of Human Rights in its hearings, the European Court of Human Rights is strongly charged and Turkey is sentenced to severe compensation. In response, as far as I can see, the 6-7 clause was prepared to respond. But I believe that what you're saying is that we're going to become democratic, we're going to see that it's not possible to be democratized by bringing new restrictions before the person's basic rights and freedoms. Again, we're going to see that these compensation cases, again, are going to be written in our house as a disgrace. The second reason for this law is that what the government considers such a salvation solution, what they call a process of resolution, is the consensus of the talks conducted under this project, which, in fact, is a destruction project for us. So one of the reasons for this law is the objections of the European Court of Human Rights, the answers to the accusations against Turkey in European progress reports, and another, the result of the agreement reached in these negotiations, which I believe will not be very good for the future of our country. Dear friends, no matter what your motive, we would wish that at the end of 11 years, if you could bring here a package of democraticization, not in the siege of fears, which remove all restrictions on the fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual, not in general, but in a four-fold, comprehensive integrity, to the opposition. No opposition party here, no MP, will bring a restrictive issue to the freedom of his own citizen, support him, support his freedom. If he could bring something like that, but so far, unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party clearly has no preparation for what he promises in both his schedule and the Emergency Action Plan. However, we need to conclude that the events that have taken place since the last two months, especially since this December 17th process, have taken Turkey to such a point in the world that we have been looking for yesterday. While I was coming here, after this December 17th, I tried to make a preparation by following the press, not by following such a deep investigation, but by following the press, by following the press, by following how Turkey created a perception in the norms of democracy, human rights, the state of law, how it was perceived, how it was accused. Dear friends, as our friend just stated, according to a set of criteria provided by the international plane, the competencies, the competencies, Turkey, in fact, said 167 countries -165, but -- between 89, I think this 2012 thing -- may be Uður Bey's 2013 -- has been much worse, if you look at what happened since December 17th, after what happened in Europe and in the U.S.A., the situation of Turkey is much worse. See, in order to avoid money laundering and financing of terrorism, there is a platform created by G-7 countries called the Financial Action Task Force, on the scale of this platform is Turkey on the gray list, which is a list of countries at risk of investing. Another issue is the 2013 Human Rights Report of the United States, which has just been published, describing what happened in Turkey as a human rights scandal. I think it's a quality that's been uploaded to Turkey for the first time. And when asked again about this word, the Secretary of State says that they say it on purpose and say it by choosing the time. Again, you see, when the President of the United States Barack Obama is looking for the Prime Minister, the law finds him warning the state. I mean, as far as a government, which has completed 11 years, in the claim of democratisation, has brought Turkey to its point in the claim of a democratisation project. Another thing: You see, the events that took place after December 17th, believe me, it's hard to tell what happened. Since this 17th December, the state of the Republic of Turkey has been watched by society, we have no right to blame the community, but it is necessary to think that the rulers of Turkey have gone mad or something. This is what happened since December 17th. In fact, given what we've been going through as Parliament... Now, I think we're talking at three o'clock in the morning.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0580par0463	Ten to four.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0579par0464	It's ten to four, so even now, it's not normal. So, the laws you passed, in the judiciary, in the judicial mission, in the security forces, in the National Education Act that we passed yesterday... Turkey is at a very difficult point with the laws that make mass assignments by making such laws -- by making laws that define the rights of self -- by making laws like this. You're looking at this problem: the president of the European Parliament, the leader of the European liberals, the president of the Council of Europe -- not to end with the following -- the president of the European Union, the president of the European Union, considers it a whole new development that is unbecoming to Turkey, and they say that these events have taken Turkey far further back. What you love about the Republican People's Party, or the President of the Socialist Group of the European Parliament, who is having an argument with the President of the People's Party, is that what Swoboda said after these recent events is truly a sad event for our Turkey. You see, so far, people who have sincerely supported Turkey on their platforms, who supported this government, institutions, who have dealt with the accusations, at the point of human rights violation of these recent incidents, at the point of being a legal state, at the point of being a democratic state, at the point of being a Turkish state. It's not just in those words, it's in the press. So, you're looking at the European, American press, articles that are being published that are trying to get Turkey out of hybrid regimes and make it even worse. Now, this is something that we really need to think about for those who run our country. Dear friends, this law will carry very serious threats and dangers to the future of our country as well as the consequences. Look, if what you call democratization is the regime of individuals, to develop the basic rights and freedoms of our citizens, to decide their own future with their own free will, there is no constraint in front of it, let's support it to the end, but in the name of democratization, if the goal is to create a political entity by identifying differences -- which we see -- if this is what you call the process of dissolution, if that's what you want to solve a problem, then the solution you're going to find is to separate the country from the problem if you're going to discuss a difference by doing its own. Now, on the basis of our friend's expression, I'm saying that if you try to create a solution by saying the Kurdish problem, you will separate this society. Turkey has a democracy problem, so let's do whatever it takes to solve it. Turkey has a management problem, it has a judicial problem, it has a security problem, but if you discuss these problems by doing a difference, an ethnic difference, a difference of belief, the solution you will find will separate this society. You solved the Kurdish problem, what are you going to do about the Georgian problem, what are you going to do about the Arab problem? There are 36 subsidiaries, what are you going to do? So we have to make democracy the basis of this country's will to live together, and we have to accept, embrace, and solve all our people, all our citizens, in equal citizen status, together. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is democracy, this is democratization. I don't believe this law will make it happen. So, as the National Movement Party, we oppose this law and express that we will vote. At this hour of the night, I pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0581par0472	Thank you. Ziver Özdemir, Batman MP.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0582par0475	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the bill of the First Amendment to various laws in the aim of improving basic rights and freedoms in 559 rows. I salute the High Council. Of course, this law, when we look at it, what does it bring? On that stand, the opposition speakers made different remarks. When we look at it, it's almost as if the country, the country, the country, the idea that it would be divided has always been expressed on this bench. Well, there are basic rights and freedoms that God has given people. When we look at these, what's in this law? In this law, propaganda and propaganda in different languages and dialects as well as in Turkish. When we look at this, we're in the area... and I'm saying that as a human being in the region. I'm 50 years old, and for 50 years now, this clause that we're going to legalize is actually in effect. Everywhere in the region, Kurdish or Arab-dominated places are also used as Arabic propaganda language. What we're doing here is just an arrangement. I don't think it's right or right to bring this arrangement to the point of dividing the country. When we look at the third one, what does that mean in the law? Shows and walks give us the rights to show and walk, and we turn it into a form in the European standard. There's a rule of law here about hatred and discrimination. There's a clause here about teaching in private schools outside of Turkish. And this clause, when we look at Turkey, when the law on development agencies comes out, in this parliament, on this platform, we bring it to the point of the country's indivisible integrity and we divide the country. When the Metropolitan Law comes, the opposition's speakers, or speakers, take steps from the government about the division of the country on this stand, and when we look at it, the cement of this country, the EK PARTI's government, which has maintained this country's brotherhood law, has been working on the unity and integrity of this country for almost 12 years now, and has supported it in every part of the country. A system was set up in Turkey, and this system was based on monotheism. With the singularity of this system, it was intended to create a type of human being, almost wanting to remove all humans from a tornado by comparing them to one another, but it no longer fits the 21st century. When we look at the democracies of developed countries and look at the issues we're still arguing about in Turkey, we're really very far behind our citizens because citizens, on the street, in this Parliament, are the ones whose goals and goals are intended to discredit this policy, some of our opposition MPs are on these platforms and are a tool to them. With regard to this final process, by December 17th, there is no insult left on this bench that has not been done to us. But when you look at the community -- all the people in this Parliament -- are in their own community, a certain status in their own place, and people above a certain level, but we're not made here, we're not insulted, there's no insult left, and we're trying to put up with it. What's done here is very unfair. Everyone on this stand needs to know their responsibility, and everyone needs to think as much of their dignity as they do of their own. That's why we support this law with all our support, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0583par0482	Thank you. There will be a question-and-answer procedure on the department for 15 minutes. Mr. Acar? No. Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0584par0486	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, there have already been examples of this law, which may be called by the press tomorrow, which will be called "democratisation," which, in fact, will take place in the area of life with antidemocratic practice. In Ankara, all of your practices in Istanbul started at the beginning. You beat it with gas and water, diluted it, gas it. That's the beginning of the law. At first, it became clear how democratic it was. Now, things got a little different tonight -- I want to say it for him -- 10th floor, 11th floor, almost sprayed with water and gas. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The essence of your new package of democratization will come up on the floor when you run away from it, I'd like to ask you that.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0585par0491	Thank you. Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0586par0493	Mr. Secretary, I mentioned in the first chapter that the U.S. Human Rights Report described as a scandal after an operation on December 17th as a scandal. Again, corruption was first listed in the same report as one of Turkey's most prominent human rights violations. In addition, corruption has been covered, not enough detention and investigations have been made. Question number one: what is your assessment of the first time this report calls corruption the most prominent human rights violation in Turkey? My second question is: What is the share of your ministers who have had to resign in the report's heavy corruption, their arrested minister's children, the ones who have been arrested, the ones who ordered them to zero out, and the ones who reset the money?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0587par0497	Thank you. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0588par0499	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Prime Minister, the special official said they're willing to retrial in court proceedings and work on this matter during a trip to the airport. Is there any study of retrial, if there is, when will it end? My second question is, do you intend to remove the Anti-Terror Law? Is there any study of the removal of the Anti-Terror Law? Because one of the most fundamental elements of democratization is that ordinary citizens are not treated as members of a terrorist organization. I want to know if you've been working on this?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0587par0501	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0589par0503	Thank you, Mr. President. The arrangement on hatred and discrimination does not have any evidence of sexual tendencies related to discrimination and hate crimes. Of course, there's no such thing as a notice here, it's considered a contract in the law, and it's written in this context, when it's considered a liability. When a crime is committed against those outside the scope, he will not benefit from it. I mean, we're still in charge at this point, so don't you think you'll be able to fix it? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0590par0506	Thank you. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0591par0508	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, in recent years, cases have been wronged and framed by members of your government and by your party. Are both Ergenekon and Sledgehammer cases, military espionage cases, Oda TV, Revolutionary Headquarters cases considered retroactive action? And one thing I'm curious about: do you feel any shame at the moment when there's a raid on the house of a cancer patient, Turkan Saylan, who's over 80 years old, who's being raided at midnight and early morning? Ali Tatar, you know, committed suicide because of these raids. I'd like to ask you if you have any qualms about Ali Tatar. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0592par0513	Thank you. Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0593par0515	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, you're always telling us tonight that we're going to meet at work in the chest, in the chest, in the trunk. We've already told you, we won't have a problem if the vote isn't stolen and the electricity isn't extinguished. Are you aware of the ballots that were captured tonight, the stamped, sealed ballots? Do you think you can understand a precaution in this regard? I'd like to ask you again how much more advanced democracy will be when water is squeezed on the next floor. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0594par0519	Thank you. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0595par0521	Thank you, Mr. President. I just said in my speech that Parliament had a more imprisoned congressman's problem. He's a congressman now. There's something seriously wrong. Fifteen or twenty days before that, a recovery was expected. It caused a blockage, no progress. As a government, I've also told him about this MP, about Engin Alan Pasha - do you have any efforts or interests in this matter? I'm asking if we can make it a legislature in Parliament in the coming days. And then, recently, in the newspapers of the last two days, about the December 17th operation, there have been reports of the arrests of prosecutors doing this operation. Do you have any sense of that? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0596par0525	Thank you. Mr. Nazlıaka...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0597par0527	Thank you, Mr. President. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan has filed a lawsuit against Erbil Tuşalp, author of Sol daily and lost his case as part of freedom of expression. A payment of 5,000 euros must be paid to the European Court of Human Rights as a result of this trial. Will the payment be from the treasury's budget or from Recep Tayyip Erdogan's personal budget?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0596par0529	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0598par0531	Thank you. Is this package of democratization going to solve the issues that make us champions in many areas of the world? For example, we are the country with the most imprisoned politicians in the world, the country with the most arrested unionists in the world; the most imprisoned lawyers in the world, the most arrested students in the world, the most imprisoned scientists in the world, the most imprisoned soldiers in the world. I'd like to ask if this package of democratization on this victimization will bring anything.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0596par0533	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0599par0535	Thank you, Mr. President. The question of Mr. Ozturk is, of course, there are other questions that I can't answer, which are not questions, but messages. Mr. Ozturk asked me about the retrial. Of course, as far as I'm concerned, our Department of Justice has some work to do. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister had instructed the Minister of Justice to work on it, and there's something about the Department of Justice there, so there's the coverage of this retrial and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on. As for the Anti-Terror Law, I personally feel that the Anti-Terror Law is not needed right now. Almost all the articles in the Anti-Terror Law are in the Penal Code. So that's how the penal code was prepared in 2005. Now, there are no gaps with the removal of the Anti-Terror Law, such as the same materials. So, I think it should be done sometime in the future. It's about hate and discrimination, and it's all about race and gender, and I don't know what it's all about. Racism, gender, everything else, faith, etcetera, there are major factors, so there are all sorts of issues that might be relevant to basic hatred and discrimination. So, I'll tell you again what I think: I don't know whether there's a study or not, I myself believe that detention and imprisonment are a measure, not a punishment; it should be as brief as possible, I believe in it as possible. So, we've had our share in the last study, so we've done at least five years of good work in our own system, but we've done a lot of work that makes it difficult to arrest; so there was something in our fourth package that made it difficult to arrest-- and now, in fact, the new one, that's in our President, that's the package that the Justice Department sent. Because there are provisions there that want both detention and imprisonment and so on to be further proven; all of this needs to be made difficult, I believe in him. I don't know anything about prosecutors. I have no knowledge of the question of Mr. Aka.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0600par0543	Nazlıaka, not Aka, sir.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0599par0544	Here, of course, I'll add a few things, so it's a continuation of the questions mentioned earlier in the talks, dear friends. One of our deputies gave us information about Turkey's position in the European Court of Human Rights, about the number of cases, which made us all very upset, in fact, especially when we went abroad, especially when we went abroad, of course, Turkey was known as a very torturer or something. In fact, the current conclusion is that our valued deputies at the European Court of Human Rights, the process is moving very slowly, so it takes a very long time for the cases to come to an end. So, I mean, I'm saying this on purpose, and if you look at what's going on right now, it's been a long time since the '90s and so on, but there's one thing that's been very satisfying in recent years, so it's not just because of your individual application to the Constitutional Court in 2013, which is an important factor. In 2013, it's been less and less, but in recent years, the number of lawsuits from Turkey... for example, there are no torture cases. These are happy things. For example, in 2013, we were in the 5th place of the application. Now, just when we look at member states of the Council of Europe -- 47 countries -- we're in the 30th place as a population, depending on the population. So we're starting to see that there's been a decline in measures in these last years, and that's a pleasure. Here, one more thing... the truth is, I don't want to go into polymics here at all, I didn't want to. So some of our MPs' speeches -- let me mention it because this is the last time we talk -- sometimes it's very offensive, sometimes -- I mean, the more insulting he says to us at work, the more we have friends who think it's okay to talk. Honestly, I mean, dear friends, the word has a lot of influence. The trick is to maintain the rules of kindness, respect everyone, and yet express it most effectively. So I'm sure the quality of the House will increase with this. I mean, it's... it's easy to insult. Everyone tells them the most disturbing words, and they don't even listen to them, so you don't even have to listen.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0601par0548	Isn't that for power?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0599par0549	But if you say something effective, rational, persuasive, we all take advantage. I think it's very important. One of the words of our friend -- well, honestly, I didn't feel the need to answer in that moment to not raise the blood pressure -- that's what everyone can say very easily, of course, everyone can accuse each other of treason, of treason. We don't make this about anyone.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0602par0550	So why are your deputies telling you, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0599par0551	For any of our MPs, it doesn't apply to anyone, it's wrong.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0602par0552	Your deputies don't do anything wrong! But, uh, your group vice presidents...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0599par0553	It's wrong, let me put it this way. One last minute, one of our deputies said that democratization does not fall in line with the historical mission of the EC PARTY. I mean, it's so sad.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0603par0555	He must have been joking.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0599par0556	I, myself, personally, am a very busy, particularly interested in democratization, who has been in office since the first AK PARTI administration. A little bit, I told you this morning, so at noon, we took out an inventory. Dear friends, this great House has brought them out. The first term was more efficient, so the AK PARTY, CHP, has been very cooperative, and at this time in Turkey, we have taken very successful steps in terms of democratisation in the ten years, eleven years, so many laws, a lot of reforms, a lot of things have changed. Turkey is more civilian today, Turkey is more normal today. Then, would it please you if I said it would not be appropriate to bring up the history of the main opposition party?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0604par0557	They're saying it is, they're saying it.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0599par0558	Now, but what about the AK PARTY?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0604par0559	But don't start with...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0605par0560	That's a joke, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0599par0561	I mean, we can't determine something like that, it's not good. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit10spe0606par0563	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0606par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 71st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 559. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on the 11th article. One of them is the Constitutional amendment, which I'm teaching and processing. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit to the following amendments to Article 11 and Article 2 (a) of Law on Special Education Institutions Law. "Education institutions can be opened to citizens of the Republic of Turkey, whose language is different from the official language, in all levels of common education and education in their native language. At the request of students who will be educated and educated in these educational institutions, the entire cost of education is paid by the treasury. The basic and procedures related to the opening, control and financing of these institutions are organised by the regulation issued by the Ministry of National Education." Pervin Buldan Layla Zana Hasip Kaplan Head of Bengi Star Secret Tilleyya Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 559th Orders of the Law for the Development of Basic Rights and Freedoms, under which there are various Laws, 11th Amendments. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. MADDE 11-14/10/1983: Foreign Language Education and Teaching 2923 and Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law on the Learning of Different Languages and Polish of Turkish Citizens (a) of Article 2 of the Law (a) have been lifted from force, and the following sentences have been added to me. "In addition, basic teaching is provided at private schools to ensure that Turkish citizens can learn different languages and dialects that they use traditionally in their daily lives, in accordance with the laws of the Special Teaching Institutions Act. The basic and regulations regarding the opening and control of these institutions are organised by the Ministry of National Education." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 559 Orders of the Numbered Legislature 11th We propose and propose that his clause be removed from the bill because it is unconstitutional. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Rusar Demirel Mehmet Şandir S. Nevzat Korkmaz Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Ali Öz Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz The Commission, do you agree with the amendment motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0607par0027	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0606par0028	Government?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0608par0029	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0606par0030	Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0609par0031	Mr. President, we would like to propose that the 12th Article of the Law Bill 559 be removed from the bill because it is contrary to the Constitution. I've made a commitment to that. I salute you all. Now, what does this stuff bring? In addition to Turkish, private teaching institutions can be opened in order to teach and teach with different languages and dialects that Turkish citizens use traditionally in their daily lives, which are subject to the provisions of the Special Teaching Institutions Act. In these institutions, the education and teaching of languages and dialects are determined by the decision of the Council of Ministers. The decision is intended to be made into law. This is under the supervision and supervision of the state under the second joke of Article 42 of the Constitution, including private education. Again, the language of education and teaching is Turkish according to the last joke of Article 42 of the Constitution. The language of the state of the Republic of Turkey is Turkish, according to the third amendment of the Constitution. So, dear friends, where are we going, step by step? When we make these findings, where does the final result go? Before we get here, I'd like to share with you some of the findings. Now, the terrorist leader in the Imralı says in the 4th convention of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) under the name of the Political Report: "No independent identity has been earned, therefore, the right to determine its fate, human rights, cultural rights, and political rights. It's the identity issue that needs to be dealt with first. Winning the identity battle is of primary importance. From individual level to national level, it's the national identity we're trying to improve, and the will of social freedom to develop over it, he said. And in freedom sociology, people talked about the project to build without touching boundaries. There is no need to be a priest to say that those who cannot change the borders by committing terrorism will build a nation without touching the borders, and then will act in the context of the right to determine their own destiny. Such assessments have been made on behalf of the DTK, which operates as the Kurdistan Parliament announced by the AKP (AKP), that the rights of the Kurdish people as a nation cannot be negotiated. (The request for further education in the native language, constitutional guarantee on the rights of Kurds and on the rights of other entities should be considered independent of the process, and Kurdish should be considered independent of the process. Now, given these evaluations, when were these evaluations made? Evaluations in three or five years. So, where are we going from step to step? It's clear where we come from, especially in terms of policies that start with an opening policy. Look what they're saying today. He's talking about the declaration of autonomy after March 30th. What are they saying now? The March 30th elections are mentioned as a choice with the borders of Kurdistan. Now, what did we do with this opening policy? Here, armed terrorists would go out of bounds, peace in the region, peace in the region. Now, your Prime Minister, let alone your Prime Minister, explains that not even 15 percent of armed terrorists have gone out of bounds. Now, here, when you look at it, there's a parallel state forming in the region. I mean, you have to see this now. Are you calling it peace, handing over part of the country to terrorists and building a state there? So that's the ultimate goal and final outcome here. The last stage and final goal is to establish the Kurdish state in part of the country, just as the Kurdish state was formed in Iraq, in part of Syria. As long as you don't allow the establishment of this Kurdish state, the forces in the area where armed terrorists today dominate the region will start fighting again there unless you meet this demand. Where will this end? There's no end to compromise. The coming point is heading that way. Thank you. I wish you a good evening.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0610par0041	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 559th Orders of the Law for the Development of Basic Rights and Freedoms, under which there are various Laws, 11th Amendments. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Özgündüz (Istanbul) and his friends MADDE 11-14/10/1983: Foreign Language Education and Teaching 2923 and Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law on the Learning of Different Languages and Polish of Turkish Citizens (a) of Article 2 of the Law (a) have been lifted from force, and the following sentences have been added to me. "In addition, basic teaching is provided at private schools to ensure that Turkish citizens can learn different languages and dialects that they use traditionally in their daily lives, in accordance with the laws of the Special Teaching Institutions Act. The basic and regulations regarding the opening and control of these institutions are organised by the Ministry of National Education." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0611par0050	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0610par0051	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0612par0052	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0610par0053	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to ensure the compliance of the provisions with the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit to the following amendments to Article 11 and Article 2 (a) of Law 2 (a) of Law 559, which have been adopted in the following terms of the declarations that have come to an end of the Article 559, in accordance with Article 11 and Article 2923 (a) provisions of the Special Education Institutional Law. "Education institutions can be opened to citizens of the Republic of Turkey, whose language is different from the official language, in all levels of common education and education in their native language. At the request of students who will be educated and educated in these educational institutions, the entire cost of education is paid by the treasury. The basic and procedures related to the opening, control and financing of these institutions are organised by the Ministry of National Education." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0613par0063	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0610par0064	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0614par0065	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0610par0066	It's Bengi Star, Batman MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0615par0067	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this is a substance that organises private education, private education in the native language. The most important issue on the basis of the Kurdish problem is the denial of Kurdish. Since he didn't speak Turkish when he started elementary school, every Kurd knows how the loser feeling from a teacher who got beat up because he spoke Kurdish turned into a riot over the years. The reaction of parents who can't name their children in Kurdish is a part of the Kurdish problem they feel against changing the Kurdish names of their own villages and towns. Right after the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, the Şark Islamic Plan, which banned Kurdish public speaking in 1925, was launched. In 1983 it is also known that the implementation of the 12 September regime, which again bans Kurdish, also led to a huge reaction and disappointment among Kurds. There are thousands of examples of those who were imprisoned for singing in Kurdish at their weddings, those who were brought to court for having the Kurdish alphabet at their amusements, those who were convicted for using Kurdish letters in their writings, those who were sued for preaching in Kurdish squares, those who were imprisoned. This is the way the mountain was opened in Turkey. It was banned in Kurdish, no Kurds. (Kurtt) has been made into words of imprisonment in Kurdistan. While Kurdish identity was being denied in Kurdish, Kurdish children were shouted at every morning in schools, my Turk, my right. The Kurdish problem thus deepened, and the PKK stepped up as the 29th Kurdish rebellion. Turkey has lost a lot of blood in material and spiritual ways over the years. Despite all the costs, this problem has been tried to be avoided in recent years by Kurdish courses, electives, and finally by currencies in private schools. These are concrete examples that we do not understand the age, that we do not listen to the demands of different parts of Turkey. The AKP's approach to problems is a strict policy of subsidizing those rights. For the last 12 years, that's been a sign of understanding. Like the Turks, Kurds want to study in their native language, not by paying extra for their own history, their own literature. It's also a requirement of equal citizenship. The right to education in its native language is one of the most basic human rights and universal quality. This does not change the fact that Turkey has rejected international contracts as a state and has declined to mention them. There's no other nation in a country that hasn't passed colonial rule that has been paid for such a basic right. If you have money, you can read your native language, and if you don't have money, perhaps we'll look at it in the future. The mother tongue is not something to negotiate. The basic principle is that the native language should be offered to everyone in public education institutions without money. No one should have the power to determine when, how much Kurdish education, how much native language, how much access to it, and no one should have the right to determine the identity and destiny of a people. To see this right for yourself is found only in the understanding of governance of colonial states. It's also a sign that the disease of building the nation's state on singleness and unity continues. The right to education in the native language is the basic right of every citizen. When a people say, "I want my mother tongue." The rulers who should be his servants are not entitled to debate whether to give or not. If, as it is written here, the sovereignty is the unrestricted nation behind us, if this statement reflects a fact, then of course we have to go ask a people, an ethnic group, an identity. Today, when I go to the Kurdish people, ask which one of them is Laz, Çerkez, not Kurds, and who is left-wing, and who has no faith, everyone says, "I want to be educated in my mother tongue." Democracy is listening to that sound. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But unfortunately, our country is still going through this. Thus, our proposal is to listen to the public's voice, as in modern countries, and to have the public educated in their native language. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0616par0077	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 12th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and introduce the addition of the provision of Article 12 (d) to the framework of the current bill 559 rows. If this crime is committed by public officials, the punishment will be increased by half. Pervin Buldan Layla Zana Hasip Kaplan Secret by Dareyya Leader Bengi Star Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 559 Rows 12 of the Numbered Legislature. Substituted by Article 5237, Article 112 of the Turkish Penal Code: 1. Or to be removed from the text of the declaration, with any other violation of the law in its joke. 1. We offer and propose that his joke be changed from two years to one year. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Rusar Demirel Mehmet Şandir S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mehmet Günal Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Ali Öz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 559 Orders of Basic Rights and Freedoms - The 12th Amendment to various Laws. We provide and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. MADDE 12-26/9/2004 and Article 112 of Turkish Penal Code 5237 have been changed in the following way. ▪ Obstruction of education and teaching rights MADDE 112- (1) Using Algebra, violence or threat; A) Any education and teaching activities conducted based on the permission of the state or public authorities, b) Using the right to education and teaching c) Entering or staying in students' collective housing buildings or attachments, If prevented, the perpetrator will be sentenced from two to five years in prison. Ali Riza Özturk Celal Dinçer Ali Özgündüz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0617par0110	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0616par0111	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0618par0112	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0616par0113	Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0619par0115	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the bill that we're discussing, in fact, is the bill of the amendments to various laws in order to develop fundamental rights and freedoms. When we look at the clauses in this bill, I have not personally seen the very serious arrangements for the development of fundamental rights and freedoms, which, in fact, seems to me to be a bill of law that was brought to meet a certain need of political power. This is, in fact, the Prime Minister's term "Democracy" is a car, a tram; when it comes to a certain stop, it has to be landed. I feel like this is the last stop now. The Prime Minister has benefited from democracy long enough, and now he's taking democracy under the name of democratization while he's doing it. In fact, when we read Georgi Dimitrov's book The United Front Against Fascism, he showed us how fascism came to be institutionalized in a country, how it affected the masses, how it presented every fascist practice to society under the name of democracy, that it really resorted to a lie in its propaganda and agitation, and, above all, it was that democracy was underfooted after that power. In fact, of course, it's important to say that the bourgeois democracy we know represents the freedom of capital to exploit itself. It's not right to even talk about bourgeois democracy during the empirical period when the capital is monopoliticized. That's where it comes to the form of fascist governance, where certain parts of the capital are liquidating other parts of the capital. Isn't fascism a democracy? Of course you do. Fascism is a democracy in terms of klik, which is the dominant force that is liquidating other clinics of capital, and there is no democracy in terms of public masses, and there is no democracy in terms of those liquidated parts of capital. It's a trick, actually. But, I guess what we want here is for people to use their personal basic rights and freedoms, not to encounter the pressures, weapons, their -- I don't know -- their growing TOMA, their scorpions. We're talking about so-called democratization at this time of night, but there are a lot of innocent people who are lying in prisons, who are not supposed to be in the state of law, who are told by the courts and by the Prime Minister. Even though they say so, people are in there, apart from their children, and they're in there with conspiracies that are actually created. We're talking about democratization here, which is the first of the basic rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, which we call a street show, the most important element of the state of law, and the people who put on demonstrations, police panzers, pressured waters, pepper gass. I'm a college student from 1974 to 1980. When I look at the conditions of that day, when I look at today's conditions, I swear to God, there's a hundred thousand times more fascism in the country today. The name of this administration is no longer democracy, who's fooling who, today there's fascism in the country. Fascism doesn't necessarily come with guns, panzers, impacts, revolutions. Fascism comes with an icy choice. That's the way it came in Germany, and that's the way it came in Italy; they used democracy, but then they established fascist rule, they sat down, they couldn't go. Dear lawmakers, this bill we're discussing has nothing to do with democracy. A bill that links meetings and demonstration walks to such strict rules, to the form of fascist governance has nothing to do with democracy. This is a bill that puts more pressure on the public population. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0620par0121	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 559 Rows 12 of the Numbered Legislature. Substituted by Article 5237, Article 112 of the Turkish Penal Code: 1. Or to be removed from the text of the declaration, with any other violation of the law in its joke. 1. We offer and propose that his joke be changed from two years to one year. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0621par0130	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0620par0131	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0622par0132	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0620par0133	Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0623par0134	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in fact, we can consider this clause very seriously: First of all, we wanted to remove the statement from the text with any other illegal behavior because it is the term of administrative law or severance law, first of all. I mean, it has nothing to do with criminal law. Depending on that, criminal law is closed to interpretation. Another violation of the law results in a crime by interpretation. As a matter of fact, since the minimum level of punishment is two years on the other hand, it is appropriate to limit the sentence's lower limit to at least one year, as long as it has the authority to establish judgment based on the extent of violence, degree, and intensity of intent, in any way that could have severe consequences for criminal justice. Because when we look at the substance here, we see that any education and teaching activities established by the state and conducted based on the permission of the public authorities, such as universities, universities, universities, universities. In the event that the right to education and teaching of one's fellow student is to be prevented from entering and staying in the buildings and the additions of the students collectively, which means that if the students in the university have somehow boycotted and obstructed the study, how much punishment will they be given? Two to five years in prison. So you're going to give him two years and five years in prison, beyond expelling him from the university, in a certain amount of time -- let's say three hours or half days -- because a student boycotted him or, in some way, a protest at the university. Look, we've all been there, through college rows. In fact, we've passed a little bit more since 68, since 67, 68, boycotts were made, universities were occupied, schools were occupied, etc. Now, there are people who have studied in those dates, and there are people who have studied between 1970 and 1980 after that. You all know very well what it costs, that some outsiders have caused the loss of nearly 5,000 young people in this country by fighting left and right, but at that time, people who are called the right-wing or the left-wing people today associate in the same workplaces, they embrace each other. Now, let's say that when you give a young person a two-to-five-year sentence, leaving it to the judge's discretion, I think it's appropriate for these democratic countries to do so. So, let's think about this: democracy, when we call it democracy, of course, has to spend its rights and freedoms on the restrictive actions of others. But that doesn't mean that any of you would agree that a person who makes such a move should be brought to a conclusion that will almost be executed, which will ruin his entire life and prevent his future. So, if our proposal here had actually been thought of in this way, I suppose it wouldn't have been rejected, but both the Minister and the Commission, unfortunately, didn't think of it that way. So, I repeat, from 1968 onwards, what happened at the university -- so that Allah doesn't bring our universities into such events again -- but how preventive of a law to be brought in this way, or how much response it would have to be, I urge you to consider it again. I'd like you to give your support accordingly. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0624par0142	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0625par0143	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-03-01sit11spe0624par0144	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't... the MPs, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
