tbmm-2014-11-11sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 12th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 12th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The first roll call at the opening didn't have enough meetings. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar, who wanted to talk about the discovery of Long Mehmet's stone coal and his contribution in the Zonguldak economy. Here you go, Mr. Nupınar.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0002par0015	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on the 185th anniversary of Mehmet Long's discovery of stone coal on November 8, 1829. I hereby salute your high council. On the 76th anniversary of our great Leader, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, I remember him with mercy and gratitude. I'd like to start by honoring the miners who died in the Soma crash, the most life-lost in the history of the Republic of Turkey, and finally in the accident in Ermenek. Our province and the destiny of our country are the lifeblood of our economy, which has always been our mine, the stone coal, found by Mehmet Long by the river near Neyren village of Eregli, on 8 November 1829. When Mehmet finds the coal of stone, we remember him with gratitude and gratitude, even though he did not know that one day he would take the name of the black diamond, and change our lives so much. Our stone coal, called black diamonds, also shaped the present of Zonguldak, for its significant contribution to our province and the economy of our country. The discovery of stone coal has changed the fate of our province and our country in the field of energy and employment. The existence of the black diamond has encouraged industrialization in Zonguldak and its environment, leading to many factories, particularly the Ereglı Iron Steel Factory. Zonguldak was also the first province of the Republic to be opened as a settlement through the coal of stone. The Zonguldak Basin has been a major engine for years in the development and industrialisation of the country. So we are proud of our labor and our coal of stone. Stone coal is very important to our region. The opening of the coal mines and starting to run by our government, the construction of the shipyards area after the establishment of ERDEMIR. Although it leaves its place today in industry and housing heating systems to different energy sources, stone coal is still an indispensable source of energy at certain points. The production of stone coal in the Zonguldak Basin has also been a major source of employment and a basic input in the production of iron steel, a very important role in industrialization of our country. From all over our country, people have come to our province, settled, embraced mining as a means of profit, and become an integral part of our province. A hundred and eighty-five years ago, Zonguldak, whose fate began to change with the discovery of Long Mehmet's coal, began to grow rapidly after the start of coal production in 1848, turning from village to neighborhood to three cities in the neighborhood. In mining, state management was popular in Turkey, as in the world after the great depression of 1929, and its number of businesses increased by 1980. After the 1980s, economic policies began to change the role of the state, its responsibilities, its priorities. Obstructions of goods, services and capital are being removed, protective policies are being abandoned, and energy markets are being liberalised in this context. The TTK, which has long met our country's demand for stone coal, failed to meet the demand, along with the 1970s. In 1987, the production of stone coal was reduced to less than 50 per cent in 1987 to 16 per cent in the 2000s. The import of stone coal, which began as 16,000 tonnes in 1973, reached 21.3 million tonnes in 2011. Today, unfortunately, our stoves don't work in the number of jobs we want, at the capacity we want. Perhaps the most important reason for this is that we have not been able to provide a productive working environment. Reasons and reasons have been discussed in the past and in the present. We owe thanks to our workers who sweated hundreds of feet below the ground to get the coal that warms us, melts steel in the industry, smokes the factory chimneys. For a hundred and eighty-five years, the humble people of Zonguldak have been making this coal by giving its life, spilling its blood, contributing a great deal to the Turkish economy. As a government, our policy in the production of stone coal is that our own resources can be evaluated and imports will be reduced. Therefore, our stone coal will continue to come to its rightful place with the policies of our government. In our time, 5,226 workers were taken to the Turkish Stone Coal Foundation. Mr. President, as I finish my words, I ask God's mercy to all of our mining martyrs who have died in mine accidents so far, in honor of Mehmet Long, who found the coal of stone in Zonguldak a hundred and eighty-five years ago. I wish that all workers who sweat in our mines will give health, health, and comfort to our brothers, the Grand Creator. On behalf of the Zonguldak people and the miners, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0003par0028	Thank you, Mr. Nupınar. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Mustafa Erdem. He wants to talk about the recent events in our country and around us. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0004par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs of the Turkish nation, I salute you with love and respect. First of all, all our policemen, all our soldiers, all our soldiers, all of whom have been visited by the feeding terror, the mercy of Rahman, all of whom have been visited by the mercy of Rahk, all of whom have been paid by human error, by a trial - all our brothers who have lost their lives after the painful catastrophes in Soma, in Ermenek, and in the traffic accidents of Ermenek, who have somehow lost their souls, and who have received mercy to Rahman. Dear MPs, in Sura Sura Sura, the Holy Spirit declares to us that the plagues that have befallen a human being are their own hands. If there are some mining accidents in our country right now, and people are losing their lives one way or another, they need to weigh themselves on a scale of conscience, to judge whether they're responsible for it or not. Again, I also condemn those who have tried to divide their country, their nation, their state, their country, their state, their country, their country, their country, their country, their state, for the same reason that they've been brought to terror, who have killed this state's soldier and martyred his police in the street, and have condemned the martyrs to stand in the street for hours, with a message that the state has been destroyed. Dear lawmakers, as a member of the Turkish nation, I suffer and suffer the events that have taken place. Do you also feel remorse, and can you question whether your conscience is clear in the face of these events? You said, "opening," you said, "you fed the PKK," and in the end, you can't go to the streets today, you can't go to the streets in Taipei, you can't go to the streets in Yüksekova, and you can get up and say, "We rule the state." Shame on such government and woe to those who have caused it to be divided into accusations that we have ruled the state. Dear MPs, do you have a clear conscience about the events in Şırnak? Do you have a clear conscience about the events in Cizre? Do you have a clear conscience as to what happened in Beijing? What conscience do you have? This conscience puts you in a position of responsibility and appreciate how you're going to handle it. In the 41st verse of the House of the Right God, we note that the disasters that have occurred on earth are with human hands. At that time, do you feel responsible for the PKK's guilt that they somehow went to Ayn Al-Arabah to cross Turkey's borders in a henimary suit? Are you not troubled by the events of Syria, by the blood of brothers flowing there, by the killing of Muslims, by the destruction of Islamic civilization, and by the fact that Muslims are all together? The vile occupation of Jerusalem, the subjugation of Bethtül-Makdis, and, as a result, we manage the world, are you not morally offended by the sentimentality of this nation in some way? Honourable MPs and the great Turkish nation, I speak to you: this country is in our hands, this value is in our hands. For centuries, those who let the Crusaders, whose ambitions have been on this land, tear the crescent apart for a dream, who have haunted this nation, these Muslims, for a dream, do they not feel remorse? I leave you with your consciences, and I give you all my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0005par0045	Thank you, Mr. Erdem. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Hakkari MP Adil Zozani, who asked for a comment on the events at Hakkari Yüksekova. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0006par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, if you hadn't conducted this assembly hearing today, I would have played the incident that I'm not going to talk about today, which I'm going to play to the people of Turkey from these microphones, to all the MPs. What I'm talking about is that on November 8, 2014, I was going to have the public listen to the swearing announcement of the police at Hakkari Yüksekova district headquarters, which was recorded on November 8th, but was recorded over and over again. I'm talking about curse words that can't be said, that can't be said, that can't be edited, that can't be edited, that can't be covered, that can't be made up, that can't be made up, that can't be made up. In the street, the police make the sirens sound in their cars to provoke the public, they squeeze water into the shops of TOMA, and they announce it, saying, "Let's go outside and curse the people." I'm not talking about a bad thing like that. I'm not talking about a bad thing. At first, I told you, if a woman hadn't been here today acting Speaker of the House, I'd have everyone listening to the abusive talk on this microphone. We're in a place where we can stop this, where we can stop these provocations. We've invited this coven over and over. It's been called October 6, 7, 8th, gum in everyone's mouths. Over and over, we've invited this House to serve here: come on in. Let's set up a parliamentary research commission, including the deaths of three soldiers in Turkey's southeastern province, including the killing and injury of police officers in Bingley, including Dargeçit, Diyarbakır, Kurtalan, Varto, and all of them. We've asked the Assembly over and over again. We've downloaded the motion three times just because of this issue, but it's been rejected here every time. I've also called from the Centre of Yüksekova, where the political will of the Parliament does not set up a research commission, at least let the Parliament's Human Rights Review Commission hear our call from here. I told him to come to Ankara, to come to Hakkari, to examine the government's unfettered approach to the people in his place, to identify the problems. In response to our call, on November 8th, at the same point, where we called the Assembly, the police responded to us with abusive speech, abusive announcements. Now, what is there to say about that? What is there to say in exchange for blasphemy? What do you expect us to say? I'm asking you, I'm asking your conscience, I'm asking your humanity. I want you to understand from here the sense of the people, the tradesman in Highova. You respond to the stone with a bullet. How do you respond to this blasphemy? Let's ask you a question. You fired a bullet back at the stone. He came up with reports that the number of people killed in the October 6, 7, 8th shootings was 17. You answered the stone well with a bullet. How will you respond to this blasphemy? I'm asking you the answer. If you accept this blasphemy, I'm not saying anything. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0007par0055	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to go into the system, and I'm going to give the MPs a minute of my word. I give the first word to Mr. Altay, who entered the system as the group's vice president. Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0008par0061	Thank you. Mr. President, we remember Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the unique hero of our national Liberation War, the founder of our republic and modern Turkey, on the 76th anniversary of his death, mercy, gratitude, and longing. With my complete faith that the secular and democratic republic he founded will live forever, I bow before the memory of the saint. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0009par0065	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0010par0068	Mr. President, I salute the Soma-Yrca villagers who have been resisting construction of thermal power plants for days. I curse the capitalist looting that destroyed 6,000 olive trees for the plant in Soma Yırca village, and the politics that condoned it. The AKP-rich firm Kolin Construction private security guards have hit villagers who defend olive groves, such as the orderkeepers of the 1800s, and are rewarded for their persecution of poor, hardworking people such as themselves. While all this is going on, the State has decided to stop the execution that it can't be rushed to publicisation and the power plant. Kolin Construction, who had noticed this earlier, organized his violent attack to prevent this place from becoming an olive grove. There is justice in Ermenek, and justice for the people, and justice for the people, where there is murder of workers in Soma, and for the children of Jalvach. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The Minister of Energy has issued a fine for the Zaytins. The statement will not cover their accomplices and sins. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0011par0076	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Özdağ...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0012par0079	Osman Yüksel, we're in the 31st year of our 31st year of adventing his name to the eternal world. He is the mute devil who is silent in the face of injustice. He is a man of great faith, trial and struggle, who has become the voice of the Muslim Turkish nation who cannot be silenced. How beautifully and beautifully he described her, the name of the mecmua, which he could only publish 33 numbers in 40 years. When it came to his soul, the humble and mild - tempered Serdendi was a lover of rights who was furious when it came to religion, homeland, and justice. He couldn't have written more than he had lived a life of storming and running from front to front like a soldier. This did not allow him to leave deeper marks on the life of 20th - century Turkish thought. After all, God has used his pen as a sword in the way of the Prophet, religion, country, and nation. More than 100 cases have been filed against him, he has been arrested eight times and has served four and a half years in prison. He is, in his own words, a black lover of the great Islamic and human cause. He was also in Parliament at one time, saying: "Forty years in prison, four years in mebus." I remember the late Ottoman Ascendant Pass, who lived a life like the dervisis and alperians from Horasan, who had a brave, dark, upright, unbending, penning son of Anatolia, and had a life to convert this geography into Islam. May his soul rest in peace and his place be in heaven.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0011par0080	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0013par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. In our district of Sultanbeyli, İstanbul Province, there are double tickets and double vehicles in the vehicles leading from Mecidiyeköy to Sultanbeyli. Our citizens in Sultanbeyli have suffered a great deal for this reason. Also, because there are no public toilets in the center of our Sultanbeyli district, our Sultanbeyli people are victims of such a long-term journey. Sultanbeyli, also, has a property problem. For 12 years, Sultanbeyli has not dealt with the property problem even though the government has promised to deal with it. Sultan Beyli is a victim in that sense. I demand that this sacrifice be relieved. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0014par0088	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0015par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Nurses who work at university hospitals face many problems due to lack of nurses. For example, at Izmir 9 September University Hospital, every 1 nurse looks after at least 12 patients. That leaves nurses with the possibility of making mistakes. Nurses, subcontractors, who are unable to carry out their professions efficiently due to increased workloads, are asking for a staff. They also want to improve the salary conditions, increase additional payments, adjust the daycare hours according to the working hours, and no cuts in the permission reports. Will the nurses' staff be increased, and the working conditions of the nurses be improved, so that the workload will be eased and humane working conditions formed? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0016par0094	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0017par0097	Thank you, Mayor. The speakers of the government, the MPs, say everywhere that keep the people alive so that the state can live. The state has been punishing the people who own the green field in İstanbul Governorate Korsu for weeks. Is this how the Prime Minister is going to keep a man alive by torture, by gas, and by TOMA? Is there a mayor who calls his compatriot a goon? Why is the citizen's demands ignored? Where is the state that doesn't care about its citizens' demands and the right to live? ▪ Justice is the foundation of property. Where is the state that says, Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0018par0100	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0019par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, November 10th was the 76th anniversary of the death of our great Ancestor. We remember Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic, who changed the good fortune of a nation, saved its homeland from being crushed under enemy boots, free to read from its minarets, and cast the enemy into the sea and founded modern Turkey on this 76th anniversary of its death.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0018par0105	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Dear Line...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0020par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. So I made a promise on November 10th. Mr. President, the fundamental philosophy of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, which was to consolidate this country, strengthen the resources of our nation, raise Turkey above the level of modern civilizations in unity and unity. Our most basic mission is to bring these ideals into existence with the most advanced sense of democracy. With these thoughts, on the 76th anniversary of his death, I honor and honor the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and all of our comrades and all of our martyrs, our veterans, with gratitude and mercy.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0021par0112	Thank you, Mr. Row. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0022par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. The attacks of illegal construction and security forces in Validebaga Grove continue at full speed. Yesterday, residents of the neighborhood, following a press release, were subjected to the police's pressure on water and gas bombings. After the attack, police chased those who escaped from the gas on the main street for minutes, detained those who took refuge in the gas site parking lot from here using reverse handcuffs. He also accused them of falsifying Molotov cocktails. The people in custody have been severely insulted in the vehicle. In the cases in which 15 people were taken into custody, the reporter of the Cumhuriyet daily was also stabbed in the head with eight stitches. Upon my response to violence against the residents, Police Commissioner Suat Ekici has made accusations and threats against my person. The police are not afraid to use the power they receive from the authorities and their rulers to use their authority without mercy. By the way, this is where I honor the great revolutionary Nasuh Mitap, who we lost last week. He was a revolutionary, one of the leaders of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0023par0121	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Nice...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0024par0124	Mr. President, we live in a world where children can't have childhood, parents can't feel happiness and feelings of parenting, not even the blessings of the land. Today we see the situation of innocent people, historical sites, and civilized lands that are being pursued by the desperate ambitions of the nations internationally. Where are the so-called legal regulations, where's the United Nations, where's the cover deals? Which one is applied? They're organized to tear up the Islamic world. I'm ashamed of all these atrocities. As a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our goal should not be to criticize the government's 12-year-old actions. By putting our hands on our conscience, we must work our minds to ensure the unity and unity of our country, to solve and develop ideas in international countries' hidden goals and games they play. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0025par0128	Thank you, Mr. Nice. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0026par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. As our country's borders are riddled with holes, our customs have been turned. The port of Mersin, one of our country's most important ports, was discovered to have been smuggling thousands of tons of red meat a few days ago. After a bit of investigation, it turned out that not only meat, but a lot of food products, particularly groceries, were being released into the domestic market in a transit mask. Trafficking is about food and endangering public health. Also, the illegal importation of these substances has led to the poverty of the people and the merchants of Mersin. When asked by the public, everyone says: 1) In the AKP's reign, nothing happens without the knowledge of the above, and no one dares to commit corruption on their own. 2) If corruption is exposed, several people will be punished first and then rewarded. 3) After December 17,25, never mind, for God's sake.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0027par0136	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0028par0139	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, although there are no ministers here. But our economic lives on the Adana side aren't so good these days, so the economy is very bad. From our side, movers are carrying cargo to places like Cizre, Silvio, Diyarbakır or they want to sell their goods. When they enter those borders, there is a Kurdistan court. They ask for taxes by saying, "They want to be judged by their own, you know, security forces in accidents." I mean, the Prime Minister's been talking about this public security a lot, and the Home Secretary's talking about it, and I'm wondering if it's okay if they take a look at this, you know, for public safety. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0029par0142	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0030par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Participants acting with power and privilege from the AKP government are also threatening and disrupting our rule of law. The AKP government's subsidiary firms are receiving tenders, receiving concessions, blaspheming, and even beating up the people who object. This is the latest example of what happened in the Yrca village of Soma. Even worse, a company called ▪Kolin Construction (Kolin Construction), whose decision was not yet announced by the judiciary, massacred 6,000 olive trees. This is the AKP government, partner in the act, along with Kolin Construction. It is a disgrace and need to be focused on how the prosecutor's secret, unexplained decision was obtained. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0031par0148	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0032par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. Due to heavy showers in Tripoli on 18 October, landslides and landslides occurred in Tonya, Foundation Kebir, Maçka, Akçaabat districts. Due to these landslides, the road connecting our Foundationkebir district to our Tonya district has been closed due to a landslide. The road between the two counties is closed for nearly 24 days, and authorities say we will open the road as soon as possible. However, the road to Tonya County is still blocked in 24 days. Winter is approaching, and the transportation of our Tonya county in the highlands will be more difficult when the snow falls. Because the road is closed, co-ops, manufacturers can't carry their forest emvaline. The tradesman is in trouble; flour, bait, dandruff, coal can't reach the county. In short, Tonya and the Tonyans are forgotten. The mayor of the city, the deputy minister, the mayor of the district. The Tonyans say it's time to clear the way, I'm inviting the authorities on duty. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0033par0154	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Here you go, Mr. Coacher.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0034par0157	Mr. President, thank you. In October 2014, a republic record was broken with an increase of 6.7 per cent in Turkish exports and $12.6 billion in exports. In addition to the success of Turkish exports, Gaziantep continues to set a record in this export, despite all regional difficulties. In October, Gaziantep broke the record of all time with an export of $569m. This year, Gaziantep is ranked sixth, with an export bid of $7 billion. From here, I congratulate all of our Gaziantep industrialists and businessmen who have made this record. In addition, I strongly condemn the persecution of Israel in Jerusalem, and his unjust practices against Muslims, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0035par0160	Thank you, Mr. Coacher. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0036par0163	Mr. President, thank you. Yesterday was November 10, 2014. On the 76th anniversary of his death, I bow to the spiritual presence of the great leader, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, whom we remember as mercy, gratitude, gratitude, and longing. Mr. President, I'd like to present to the attention of the government's officials a victim I received from the mayors of the capital city. The Metropolitan Law and municipal revenues have been reduced by about 50 to 60 per cent. Therefore, there is an increase in the shares of the County Bank. I'm warning the government authorities from here. The summer populations of these district municipalities are growing on the beaches, layer by layer. I demand that this sacrifice be relieved. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0037par0167	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Sour...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0038par0170	Mr. President, I'd like to draw the attention of all my fellow MPs to the fact that the executive provisions in Article 51 of the Civil Code have not been implemented because the Council of Parliament does not care. Because of the wrong app that's been going on for years, I'm not handing out these papers that should be published every day of the week -- except on vacation. We MPs can't find out who asked what, what kind of proposal, unless we come to the General Assembly. The transparency of the House is being blocked, so we're not making a sound. The petition commission has judicial decisions that can be more effective than its highest court decision, which we cannot see or exercise our right to appeal. We all need to be distributed in print, which gives us the opportunity to correct the reports. In short, I'd like to call on the Presidential Court to do its duty, which has not been properly enforced by the Civil Code. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0037par0172	Thank you, Mr. Sour. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0039par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. According to a media report, in the reconstruction of the Süleymaniye Mosque in Istanbul -- although the restoration was complete -- in the mosque's courtyard, there, someone was given the opportunity to build a cabin or something. So you're going to say there's no politics in winter, there's no politics in the mosque. You're going to camouflage one area of the mosque from the other side and create a space where someone can bring it in and have a meeting and have a political conversation. I strongly recommend that the Justice and Development Party government be sensitive about this, especially if it is not the place of one of its own followers. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0040par0178	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0041par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. On the 76th anniversary of his great death, I thank him with gratitude, and say, "May his place be in heaven." Also, in the province of Tokat, the farmers of Kelkit, Kazova, Zile, Artova, the Plains of Artova were unable to produce enough products this year because the weather was hot and dry, and they could not sell the products they produced for enough value, nor could they evaluate them. As a result, farmers, peasants, who have failed to pay off their debts, and agricultural loans and banks are held hostage in the private sector, the farmers' homes are being carried out. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Prime Minister are expected to work immediately at the point where the farmers and peasants will be freed from execution and debt. I wanted to pass that along. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0042par0185	Thank you, Mr. Right. Finally, Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0043par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. Citizens who have suffered heavy damage in the recent flood in Manavgat district of Antalya are expecting support from the state, will they take a step in the matter? Will Manavgat be declared a disaster zone and compensate for the damages of the manufacturer, the tradesman, the citizens? Is Manavgat not going to be able to fund Manavgat at the expense of 1.5 quadrillion liras for the White House? In Antalya, the residence of the CHP's municipal administration has been earmarked and built by Bilal Erdogan. The dorm fees were raised from 200 to 300 liras to 100 per cent, 150 per cent increase to 500-600, so the money the students would pay when they went to TÜRGEV was increased to 600 euros. Will the foundation contribute to the children, or will the foundation prosper over the children and the free building? Under what circumstances was this building given? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0044par0192	Thank you, Mr. Acar. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two statements. I'll have them read it separately and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly On 12 November 2014, a parliamentary parliamentary committee from the Grand National Assembly of Jordan and a parliamentary committee from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey attended a parliamentary seminar on "The Spread of Small and Light Weapons: Responsibility, Danger and Opportunities for the Middle East and North African States" in Amman, Jordan's capital city, on November 12, 2014. It is presented to the information of İzmir MP Hamza Mountain General Assembly, which has been reported by the group of political parties concerned with Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly On the occasion of the 31st anniversary of the KKTC's 31st anniversary of the delegation of the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Cemil Cicek, President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, Dr. Dervis Eroglu and President of the Republic Assembly, Dr. In response to Cyber's invitation to the event, the KKTC will receive a visit on November 14, 15th 2014, dated 28/3/1990, and will be presented to the General Assembly's information on the regulation of the Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, under Article 6/20. It has been presented to your knowledge. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a review of the results of the external audit reports from the Turkish Parliament and the Court's spending in 2013. I'll read it and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly According to the Law on Public Financial Management and Control No. 5018 and the Executive Service of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey No. 6253, the Court's Foreign Control Report on the expenditures of the Grand National Assembly in 2013 and the Court's Foreign Control Report on the spending of 2013 were also agreed to submit the answers to the Supreme Executive Court's answers on October 13, 2014. It's for your information. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Turkey's Grand National Assembly and Court's 2013 Foreign Control Reports Review Results 1- The Court's External Control Report, issued by the Court Expert Controllers appointed by the Grand National Assembly's 2013 fiscal year accounts, states on 1509.2014 that the funds assigned by the Central Management Budget Law in 2013 are in accordance with the laws and other legal regulations provided by the spending agencies. During the study, the cost figures shown in the 2013 ruler and tables were seen whether they were recorded correctly or not, whether their sums were correct, equivalent and consistent, and whether the accounts agreed with each other. The budget's estimated number of available grants has been audited through a sample of the relevant legislation of the spending documents based on the figures, which have been researched to determine whether investments in the programme are being carried out, compared with the exact results. The start-up grant in 2013 was $773,260,000, including transfers and additions in the year, and was $722,741,520.42. As of 31,12,2013, the payment was spent at $651,897,008,77, or 90.2%. According to the economic rating, the allowance for employees is reportedly 99.7% spent, the social security institution's premium costs are spent 97.6%, the current transfers are done 97.3%, the allowance for purchases of goods and services is spent by 78.9%, and the allowance for capital costs is used by 55.8%.8%. The sums in the accounts of which were recorded are agreed, with payment warrant documents and accounting receipts archived by the head of the TBMM Ministry of Strategy Development, The income-go figures shown on the precise account sheets are correct and equivalent, without spending on the grant, In an effort to monitor the functioning of the financial management and control system envisioned in Law 5018 and to use the budget effectively, economically and efficiently, the administration has taken care of its duties in accordance with legislation, the administration's objectives and policies and strategic plan. The President of Strategy Development with the presidents of the spending units and their employees have taken action in accordance with the procedures and fundamentals envisioned in the implementation of financial transactions and organisation of spending documents related to this, It has been expressed. In the time appointed in his contract, criminal sanctions are imposed in case the job is not delivered. In the purchases of fuel through the vehicle recognition system, in the bill details reports, the fact that the car was filled with fuel, In some of the purchases made directly through procurement, the fact that the date of the transaction is compatible with the process, In certain production-and-responsibility jobs that have been made through direct procurement, if the work depends on a fixed period of time, The release date of the work included in the tender documents is also specified in the contract, The Council of Ministers' decision on the price difference account taken into account in service purchases based on the employment of employees is that the provisions of the contract, administrative and technical conditions are in harmony with each other, assessments and recommendations have been made. In this framework, the Supreme Manager's Answer, which is organised by external auditors to consider the findings and proposals of control; The delay penalty for the matter being learned during the external inspection was collected by the December 23,07.2014 decontamination of the work and will be paid with the necessary attention and care in the following applications. The transport recognition system (TTS) shows that it works in accordance with technical requirements in 124 vehicles, but the vehicle drivers sign the fuel receipts by signing a name-soyad and kilometers on the fuel receipts so that all vehicles can be completely removed from the front chest and the TTS device's montage can be completed, and if this is done, the vehicle will be out of the guarantee range, while the vehicle will be under technical condition to be able to maintain the control of the miles of the vehicle by signing a name-soyd and kilometers of information on the fuel receipts, and that all vehicles will be able to track the fuel receipts to create kilometers of its data, which will be traced to a daily process. It will ensure that the transaction flow processes under direct procurement will be conducted in accordance with the tender legislation and that the spending documents will be edited in such a way that it will reflect this situation. According to the Secretary General's Office, in order to ensure the standard and unity of implementation among the units in the "Property of Rights," the type of contract samples will be prepared and will be announced to all spending units in Article 30.04.2013 and in the article 121098 to ensure that such errors are not repeated, and the necessary attention and care will be given for the regulation of such agreements. The issue of the deadline of the contract's deadline in the draft is that the contract is short-written, and since the contract of employment has been completed on the basis of the contract, there will be no criminal sanctions, the following applications will show the necessary attention and care. The statements in the contract and administrative condition on the price difference are taken out of the Public Contract and Executive Conditions of the Public Contractation Agency, and the labour fees account is calculated in accordance with the regulations of the date of which the work is carried out, and there is no extra payment in any way. The appropriate measures will be taken as part of recommendations expressed and included in the Foreign Control Report. The Foreign Control Report, issued by the Ministry of Interior Property Chiefs of the Turkish Parliament, which has been appointed to oversee the external audit of the financial annual accounts of the 2-JP Presidency in 2013, reads on the basis of the expenditures and documents provided under the Central Management Act of 2013 and on the basis of the rights of the expenditure documents provided during the use of these funds, on the basis of the grants, on the basis of the expenditures and on the basis of the expenditures provided by the State Department of Interior.06.2014, on the basis of which are being used as effective, economic and efficient. The Court's presidency budget in 2013 has a budget of 164,587,200,00 euros, which is spent 141,002,930,93 euros, compared proportionally with those budget funds and spending figures; 85% of the budget budget allowance assigned in 2011, 91% in 2012 and 85.7% in 2013. The agency's payments based on payment order documents and accounting transaction receipts and bank statements are agreed, The income-go figures shown on the precise account sheets are correct and equivalent, without spending on the grant, As the Supreme Director of the Court, the Court has made a high effort to ensure effective, economic and efficient use of public resources given by the budget, to monitor the functioning of the financial management and control system, envisioned by Law 5018, to fulfil the duties and responsibilities given by the budget. The spending authority, the executor, the head of the financial services unit and the accountant have made a maximum effort to implement financial legislation and implement the necessary measures, The administration's financial activities, decisions and transactions are conducted within the scope of Public Financial Management and Control Law 5018 and other relevant legislation, It has been expressed. The fact that the charger's signature has been taken care of in the payment order documents, In some payment orders, the column "checked and deemed suitable" is left blank, indicating that the authority has no signatures, that the signatures of those in charge of the payment warrants should be taken under the responsibility of those in charge of their signatures, In the maintenance and repair costs of directly provided vehicles, a document in the form of examinations and admissions documents, which are signed by a non-tech employee, the adoption process is being taken care of by the three-member commission, including the technical employee. The maintenance of the housing that needs to be made as a service, the construction of the member rooms, the construction of the decorations, the indications that the tenders are being tendered as a work, the care to determine whether it is a service or a construction job, The audit management software service should be carried out by the public tender code, but by the indications that the direct procurement procedure is being carried out according to the tender procedures mentioned in the law, assessments and recommendations have been made. In this framework, the Supreme Manager's Answer, which is organised by external auditors to consider the findings and proposals of control; The payment warrant in question was sent to the head of the TBMM Strategy Development before the spending authority's signature was completed, while the signature control was primarily owned by the accounting staff, but then the payment order will be taken care of to ensure that the signatures are complete and complete. The documents related to the routine payment of tuition and foreign language courses indicate that they have not been sent to pre-financial control and will be taken care of in the following applications, Car repair jobs are directly provided under the Public Contracts Act, and since there are no regulations for examinations and admissions of such jobs, there is no fundamentally illegal action in the procedure, but the procedure will be established to implement the adoption of a commission with a three-man commission, including the technical employee. The definition of the concept of "Production" in the Public Proposal Act and the General Agreement of Public Contraction, under Article 63, titled "Development Repairs," indicate that construction repairs are mandatory as a contract for construction, and that there is no law against the implementation of the work mentioned in the report. In accordance with Article 22-b of Law 4734 and Article 22.3 of Public Relations General Order 22.3, the document that only one person has a legal copyright on it can be obtained directly, so that "CAP" software mentioned in the report can be obtained directly from the only seller in the country, under the Law of Ideas and Art Works of Arts, and by the manufacturer, be registered as an idea and Art by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and that the firm is the sole seller of this product. The appropriate measures will be taken as part of recommendations expressed and included in the Foreign Control Report. It has been presented to your knowledge.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0045par0273	Mr. President, I don't think...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0044par0274	Mr. Hamzacebi, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0046par0278	Thank you, Mr. President. Just moments ago, the findings of the Turkish Parliament and the Court's Foreign Control Report on 2013 were submitted to the General Assembly's information. According to the Law on Financial Management and Control, the Court's external control over expenditures is conducted by a delegation appointed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. President. The external audit of the Turkish Grand National Assembly on expenditures is carried out by the auditors appointed by the Court. The control of these two institutions is different from the external audit defined by the Public Financial Management and Control Law. In fact, it is normally done by those in charge, not by the Court, but by those in charge of making external inspections. The audit results were submitted to the information of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. However, there is no possibility of any discussion on this presentation because it is presented only to the General Assembly's information. However, the report, which is conducted as a result of external control of an institution, should normally be discussed, evaluated by the board presented. I see it as a flaw in the law and the Civil Code. We can change that with an internal charter change, we can do it. From now on, I, Mr. President, suggest to the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that a amendment to the Civil Code shall be made to ensure that the Court and the State Assembly's reports, which have been held as a result of the external control of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, will also be discussed in the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0047par0283	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I assume this request will be taken into account in negotiations with the Board of Directors. Mr. Young, come in. You're in the system.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0048par0288	Mr. President, I'd like to say a few thoughts on this presentation. For once, in this presentation, the administration accepts that there are corruption, there are irregularities, and the controllers accept it, but it's not clear what it is. I'm on the CSI Commission. Unfortunately, the Court does not make serious inspections, but covers corruption. There's corruption in major tenders. Here are over 70 vehicles rented at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, super luxury vehicles. Hired by whom? How was it rented? It's unclear. Now, such an institution, such as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has its own expenses, such as mine, which, in fact, we need to be distributed and read to us in advance, whether there's corruption in these things here, or not... now, what's just been read... Two inspectors from the Ministry of Interior are being assigned to inspect these Court reports. However, this has to be done by the Treasury inspectors. Interior Ministry inspectors don't specialize in budget applications. That's why I... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There are a lot of purchases here in the House. If you'll excuse me, let me tell you. There's buying, there's corruption. They're being covered up. There are tenders at this level, materials being bought, and here is a palace built for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... in Chankaya. There have been some rooms built here. Who were they made for? How much is it made for? We all need to know that.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0049par0296	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0048par0297	Because I know there's been a lot of corruption in this House, but there's always been a cover-up. That's not a thank-you thing. Here, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0049par0298	I thank you for your contribution, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0048par0299	No, I mean, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey needs to examine these issues, not cover them up.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0049par0300	Now, there's a resignation notice from the commission, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning from the Public Economic Responsibility Commission that I'm a member of. I'll give you what you need. Yours truly. [[Slap]] It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Although Turkey has high water product potential, which is surrounded by different seas and has numerous lakes and has important streams, that potential is not being used because necessary arrangements and investments are not being made. In the event of significant value in fishing, both the healthy diet of society and export substances will increase the benefit of the country's economy. Although Turkey has significant water products potential, it is not transformed into this potential power due to the lack of sustainable policies for fishing. In order for sustainable policies to be implemented, universities have to raise trained and trained employees in the industry. Employees who grow up here must work at public research institutes and contribute to further production. Although the sector's problems have been clearly known for years, this potential is becoming a secret force with no solution proposals being implemented, and that power is constantly postponed to another spring. The administrative structures of the fisheries industry in Turkey cannot provide healthy solutions to the sector's problems due to problems caused by fishing powers being distributed among different ministries. As a result of the different areas of authority and the insensitivity of this problem, the economic resources, which will be a serious force for our country, are, in a sense, being pushed in the back of a hand with this insignificance. With decisions made by the European Union on the sector in 2003, the networks of all Mediterranean countries were destroyed, and all countries except Turkey provided compensation aid to compensate fishermen. In our country, compensation rights for resolving the harm done by EU law have not been transferred to fishermen. In addition, new regulations for hunting bans have been made in all countries and victims have been removed, but in our country, the Ministry of Agriculture does not see this sector, leaving fishermen to their own destinies. Although commitments from fishermen have reached the Ministry as a result of the dragnet networks, which were banned in 2011, the hunt is not allowed from 1 July 2011. In the event of this insensitivity to both the country's economy and nutritional sector, our country, which falls to imports of grass and hay, is surrounded by seas, will also need the imports of water products without insight and insensitive policies. In order to use our wealth in the most efficient way in terms of water products and as a result to achieve the concept of sustainable fishing, to determine and resolve the problems facing the sector, to provide nutritional and material income, we propose and propose that Parliament's investigation be opened under Articles 98th, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of TBMM. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 4) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] 6) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Sinop]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] 15) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] 17) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 18) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[Mersin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The right to housing is an integral part of the right to education. The housing issue, which has not been produced by government or institutions for years, is one of the biggest problems of our students. Although a large number of new universities have been opened in our country almost every year, the same lack of student housing has caused the students a great deal of difficulty with their accommodation. Before the necessary infrastructure and physical conditions are fully prepared, the number of foundation universities has increased rapidly, provided by public universities and then by the SEC. Although the number of students and universities has increased rapidly, unfortunately the number of dorms has not been increased. This causes the housing problem of thousands of students who have won the university. With their families' undying self - sacrifice and support, students who enjoy winning the university exam as a result of a superior effort are unfortunately facing a housing issue during the registration and struggling with it until their school is finished. Since there are no permanent solutions to the housing problem, students and their families have to provide for themselves. Since so many students have not been able to solve housing problems, they have either been deprived of the right to education or have either abandoned their education or have tried to continue their education under very difficult circumstances. The families of our students, who have lived with their families for years and have had to go to another city because of the school they've earned, have suffered a great deal of anxiety during the recording, because of being deceived by the unknowable foundations that serve what purpose. Most colleges, university dorms, private dorms, and home rental options are not available because of limited capacity for loan and housing. However, these preferences also mean an additional cost to families, although they depend on the condition that they can afford the cost. As a result of recent marketing policies, private dorms have soon acquired a place in the field of education, and the number of these dorms has increased. Thus, the most basic needs of education and university students have been marketed. However, housing should be offered as a right for all college students to benefit from under equal circumstances. The institutional law of universities must be introduced into the housing issue, and the housing problem must be solved when the universities are established. In order to solve the housing problem for college students, students must start building new dorms to complete their housing needs, college dorms must be broke, private dorms must be nationalized, students must be paid for rent until new dorms are built. All services must be provided at home for free. Due to the problems we discussed upstairs and the proposals for solutions, we would like to express our respect for the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104, 105, in accordance with Articles 104, and 105, in order to determine permanent solutions to these problems, to improve the conditions of the existing student dorms. [[Tekirdağ]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] [[Gaziantep]] 5) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] 10) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Mughle]] 13) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] 15) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 16) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Niğde]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[Mersin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As it is known, the aims for national and international social and economic development are determined and the success of these goals is provided with current, reliable statistics. All researchers, politicians, decision-makers and all individuals use statistical information effectively in their work in the process of accurate information, accurate interpretation and correct decision-making. All statistical data compiling in Turkey is very important in its field. One of the most important data is crime statistics. Crime statistics are essential for decisionmakers, scientists and users, and in light of these data, the necessary measures can be taken. It is now inevitable that more radical measures will be taken by rapidly increasing and reducing the crimes committed against our society and the life and property that directly affect the individual to a degree that does not create security concerns in society. In this scope, investments to prevent crime will be more useful than efforts to apprehend criminals. Therefore, important research on crime should be conducted, the effects of crime on factors such as population, socioeconomic development, migration and urbanization, and the effects of crime on fast population growth, uncontrollably urbanization, unemployment, tourism, police, number of police, divorce rate, education. According to the criminal types of terrorism, social and trafficking, spread statistics have been removed from the institution's website by 2008, unfortunately, as well as from 2008 to 2008. As a result of several written applications to the Police General Directorate, unfortunately, lawmakers' written question motions have been left unanswered, not being given information on crime statistics. The latest response, given by the Interior Ministry on February 16, 2012, to the written question motion number 7/1948, was stated that data on crime statistics could be analyzed by Turkey's Statistical Agency and obtained from the institution, which was referred to as starting in February 2012. At this point, we see that the data prepared by TİK is not quite adequate and that the data provided by TİK does not contain details, as the department's General Directorate reviews the crime statistics that have previously been explained on the website of the institution. The Security Directorate puts statistics ahead of us on deliberately killing, injury, sexual immunity, crimes against crime, theft, damage to property, crimes against common morality, crimes against family order, crimes against the environment, crimes against society, crimes against the nation, suicide, suicide, attempted suicide, missing persons, suspicious death, occupational accident, missing property, terrorism, trafficking in immigration, trafficking in human trafficking, corruption, trafficking in weapons and ammunition, trafficking in weapons and ammunition, the number of missing persons, etc. The TÜİK also stated that no data has been provided from the Security Directorate in its 02.03.2012 date and 1514 response to its application for information. It is now inevitable that more radical measures will be taken by rapidly increasing and reducing the crimes committed against our society and the life and property that directly affect the individual to a degree that is no longer a security concern in society. Thus, the importance of crime statistics in Turkey is substantial, and it needs to be studied in detail, compiling data, sharing it with public and scientists. In light of the brief summing information above, I would like to submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the TBM Council and Article 98 of the Constitution, in order to determine the crime statistics and take the necessary precautions in this matter. 19/3/2012 1) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] [[Niğde]] [[Ankara]] 7) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 8) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] 16) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Manisa]] 19) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 22) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 24) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[Mersin]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There are two motions for genes. The motions have already been suppressed and distributed to the members. Now I'm having the motions read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Due to the catastrophes caused by Soma and Ermenek in the mines, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Mr. Taner Yıldız, we propose the opening of the geneor in accordance with Article 106 of the Constitution of Constitution 98th and 99th, under Articles 106 of the TBMM Institution. HDP Deputy Chair HDP Group Deputy Chair Throughout the AKP governments, Turkey's fundamental problems have not been solved, but have deepened. In the beginning of these problems, the policy of the energy field is the Rantster and the non-human production. Although Turkey is a highly advantageous country in alternative energy sources, it has not taken advantage of them, on the contrary, it has been directed by primitive production methods to sources that attempt to live life, such as HES, nuclear power plant and fossil resources, and disrupt natural balance. Although 301 workers lost their lives in the mine disaster in Soma on 13 May 2013, as before Soma, no preventive step has been taken regarding this area of responsibility for the ministry. The opposition's proposals for structural solutions, especially our party, have been rejected, and the proposals and warnings of experts, interested unions have been ignored. Less than six months after the Soma massacre, 18 workers were underwater in the mine in Ermenek district of Karaman, and their fate remains uncertain. In the same days, two in Bartin, and one in Zonguldak, a mine worker died in a cave-in. Although my hand has passed over a week after the accident in Ermenek, the failure to reach 18 workers has once again revealed that the Ministry has no preparation for such vital situations, completely disregarding the health and safety of workers. The fact that this political and ethical understanding, which has brought death to its worker, has once again come to light with the tragedy that we have experienced in terms of social justice. Mining Act 3213 states that the mines are under the rule and savings of the state, and although the principle of non-distribution of rights has been adopted in Article 5, the relevant ministry has left mining and sales rights to private people, leaving more than 200 redevansers, including a company that specializes only in mining, not interfering with 8-10 companies. Following the Soma massacre, the legal regulations that have been carried out have been ignored, the necessary measures have not been taken, and the employer has been allowed to reflect additional costs to the employees, allowing them to do no scientific work, allowing the mines to be closed in Ermenek to run next to the mines, at the expense of our miners' lives, turning these fields into a purely primitive foundation for capital. As it is not coincidental that almost all of the mining licenses are given to those who are close to the ruling party or who are involved in organic relations, the overall market balance of the government's policy of creating secondary capital with these methods has been compromised, the costs that the capital needs to cover have collapsed on the workers' shoulders, and the balance of labour-employment has been radically transformed in favour of capital. Taking into account the priorities of capital in energy policies, Mr. Star has not considered mining and legislation in developed countries. Several scientific reports have been ignored, especially the reports of the mining research commission established within the TBM, and have been overheard by opposition MPs just before the massacre. It has been a social, moral and democratic obligation for the workers to resign from the position that Mr. Taner Yıldız, the Minister of Energy and Resources, who does not make the necessary arrangements in the mines, who abandons the miners at the mercy of the employer, who ignores the laws in favor of capital, has been occupied by workers for the safety and working conditions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Due to business accidents and labour deaths, including Soma and Ermenek, we would like to announce the opening of the geneor in accordance with Article 106 of the 98th and 99th Constitutional and 99th Constitutional Security Minister Faruk Çelik. HDP Deputy Chair HDP Group Deputy Chair The Neoliberal political lane, which was entered in Turkey after the 1980 coup, has deepened with AKP governments, and today Turkey has imposed heavy bills on its people and working classes. During this period when marketisation and flexible production models have been gaining prevalence, the situation in which the AKP's rulings have brought in the working people of Turkey is a complete slave system, while at least 14,000 workers have lost their lives in 12 years. While workers who work on the biggest bill of these policies pay with their lives every day, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security remains unresolved, while the workers need to take precautions on this issue and create policies for the safety of their employees. On 13 May 2014, 301 miners were killed and many miners were injured as a result of a tragic incident in a mine in Soma district of Manisa. The Soma disaster was one of the things that showed the maximum profit ambition of capital in the most obvious way. The relevant ministry and political authorities have learned nothing from the mass killings of thousands of miners after many such disasters as Soma, and the necessary measures and legal measures have not been taken. One of the constant mining disasters took place in the district of Ermenek, Karaman, on October 28th. In addition to this tragedy in Ermenek, which occurred after the Soma, 18 mining workers were still unclear, countless such mass workers in the mines showed that their working life was at great risk for human life and that no preventive policy had been put into effect. Workplace inspections have not been actively carried out, living rooms have not been conducted, workers' complaints have been ignored, employees' social and economic rights have been denied, leaving the employer's initiative for more work killings. The employer activates 50 people when we shut down the stove, which Minister Faruk Çelik. He said, after the mining disaster in Ermenek district of Karaman. It is a full confession. Mr. Secretary still hasn't made a convincing statement to the public about this matter. This statement has shown that the AKP's power and the Ministry, which is head of the AKP's administration and Mr Faruk Çelik, have been directed by political and materially influential environments. In a speech last May, Tarheron was the exploitation of the system's labor. The Minister of Labour and Social Security, Mr Faruk Çelik, who said that despite his confession, he did not take healing steps regarding the area under which he was responsible. This suggests that either the Minister has no political will or uses the truth only as a means of social manipulation and diversion. Either way, it's pretty bad. At the same time, the problems of seasonal farm workers, whose number is 4 million, are still unresolved, millions of women, children and young people continue to be subjected to discrimination and exploitation daily. Most women and children in the car that crashed in Isparta (Isparta) were killed by 18 seasons of agricultural workers. Although thousands of agricultural workers have lost their lives in such accidents, this has not even been on the Ministry's agenda. The lack of workplace controls or not at all increases the deaths of workers, while the fact that the workplace controllers are still not granted public security and that they are asked to inspect the workplace where they receive their salary is not ignorance, is a full co-operation with the relevant ministry's capital, if not ignorance. It is clear to me that Mr. Faruk Çelik cannot properly reveal his position as Department of Labor and Social Security in such a critical area. It has been presented to your knowledge. The day of the meeting will later be set on whether or not the motions will be taken into consideration. Members of parliament, the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission also has one membership for lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. It is Monday (November 17th 2014) at 18 p.m. of non-political party members who want to run for office. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. There's another review of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I'm going to make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkish-speaking Countries Parliamentary Assembly (TÜRKPA) is the home of the Azerbaijan National Assembly Social Policy Commission, which will be held in Baku from 21 November to 22 November 2014. The meeting will be held under Article 9 of the Law on the Establishment of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990, under the 9th Amendment of the Constitutional Council of Turkey, on the participation of Health, Family, Labour and Social Affairs Commission President Necdet Ünüvar and İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at the Council's 11/11/2014 Tuesday (Today) meeting. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Engin Altay Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The agenda's Law Proposal No. 652 in "The Bill of Law and Other Jobs From Commissions" shall be taken into the 5th place in order of this section, and the order of other tasks shall be considered according to this; On the agenda (10/34), (10/55), (10/679), (10/801), and (10/904). With the motions to investigate the city council; In order to determine the working conditions for seasonal agricultural workers and all issues of 23 MPs to be investigated; Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı and 19 MPs to work as seasonal agricultural workers; in order to cause the death of 17 vehicles they are in the cities and districts to other districts; in order to investigate transport, housing, health, security, social security issues; in order to investigate the conditions for the processing of the current issues of the Kars MP's Property, and in order to determine the measures in which to take care of all issues in this matter; in order to investigate the reasons for the investigations of the implementation of the Membership of Parliament and 29 MPs to go to the area; in order to investigate the implementation of the 27 MPs; in order to investigate the implementation of the process of the process; in order to investigate the implementation of the process of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the process; in question of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the Member of the European Parliament of the European Parliament and the Commission; incumbent-Ar-Ar-Ar-Ar-Ar-Ar-Ar-Ar-Ar-Ar-Ar-Est-Eba-Eba-Ban-Bal-Ban-Ban-Ban-Ban-Ban-Ban-Ban-Ban-Ban-Ban-Ban-Ban-Ban-Ban-Ban-Ban-Ban-Ban-Ban-Ean-Ea-Gan-Ean-Ban-Ban-Ean-Ban-Ban-Gan-Gan-Ban-Gan-Ban-Ean-Ean-Gan-Gan-Ge-Gan-Ge-Ea-Ea-Ea-Ea-Ge-Ea-Ea-Gan-Gan-Gan-Ean, in-Ean-Ean-Gan-Gan-Gan-Gan-Gan-Ea-Ea-Ea-Ea-Ean-Ea-Ea-Ea-Ea-Ea-Ea-Ea-Ea-Ga-Ga-Ga-Ga-Ga-Ga-Ean- The merger of these proposals and their talks in this merger, It's recommended. I'd like to submit your motion to the Council of Counsellors, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration. I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I would like to submit to you the need to proceed under Article 37 of the Civil Code on the Law Proposal of Number (2/185). As the bidder, Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0050par0584	Mr. President, considering the expectations of lowering the election dam in the community, I have proposed a law on changing the election dam in the Political Party, Parliamentary Elections Act. This proposal is a legal proposal for the reduction of 10 per cent of the country's electoral dam, envisioned in Article 33 of Parliamentary Election Law 2839. A amendment to Article 67 of the Constitution has been passed in 1995, in accordance with the laws of choice, the principles of justice and governance. It depends on the electoral system where a political system maintains both justice and stability in governance. In fact, this law proposal is very important, it concerns democracy directly because the 6th article of our Constitution states that the government is a unconditional nation, and the MPs in the Turkish Parliament are representatives of the sovereignty of this nation. Therefore, one of the organs of use for the sovereignty of the nation is the Turkish National Assembly, the legislature. Therefore, the election in a country is not enough for democracy and freedoms to be carried out, but at the same time, the elections must allow the right to be reflected in the legislature of everyone who has the right to choose, both in security and in the right to choose. An honest election for a democratic election is still not enough, but a full and complete reflection of the voter's will must be reflected in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. And it's the election system that's going to do it. The strengthening of the legal state, the development of democracy, the foundation of justice is national sovereignty. Today, however, the country's dam D'Hondt system is still being implemented, and the injustices and injustices of this D'Hondt system are evident. The Justice and Development Party has 66 per cent of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with 34 per cent of the 2002 elections, and the Republican People's Party has 33 per cent of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, with 19 per cent of the vote. About 45% of the votes that should be reflected in the House don't reflect. So one out of every two votes given in 2002 goes to waste. Again, the Justice and Development Party received 46.5 per cent of the vote in 2007, but is represented by 62 per cent in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, while the Republican People's Party is represented by 20 per cent, despite 21 per cent of the vote. Dear MPs, if we really want to be the Assembly of everyone who lives in Turkey today, then the will of all the people in this country must be reflected in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, regardless of ethnicity, religion, religion, religion. Today, the belief that this Assembly represents the will of 90 percent of this nation is not true, it is unreal. Because this is for two reasons: First of all, people can vote for other political parties in order to ensure that the political party that fits their mind will not cross the dam. So today, it is not possible to say that both the Republican People's Party and the DP and the BDP are actually representing the will of the nation. In fact, what needs to be done is to remove the electoral dam completely and ensure that the will, the will of the people, the will of the election, the national will, is fully reflected in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As a matter of fact, only Turkey has a 10 per cent threshold in 47 European countries, Russia and Georgia are 7 per cent, in 15 member countries the dam is 5 per cent, and 7 states have no dams, and 13 states have less than 5 per cent. The fact that the Justice and Development Party, which claims to face each occasion with impact on September 12th, has not yet lowered the threshold in this electoral Law, which is what society expects, and is attempting to take advantage of the institutions established by September 12th law, is not a matter of reason or reason. To oppose the coup d'état on September 12, 1980 is to eliminate the institutions of that coup law. Therefore, I demand that this proposal of the law be taken into consideration. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0051par0593	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0052par0597	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Indeed, Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk, our MP, has brought a bill of law, an important proposal for the development of democracy, freedom. The ruling party always says: "We want democracy, we want freedom." If we want democracy and freedom, we expect them to vote positive for the reduction of the electoral dam to 5 per cent of the law's bid, if indeed power favours democracy and freedom. 5 percent, if it's not accepted, if they have suggestions, it could be 7 per cent, but none of the countries of the European Union has a 10 per cent electoral threshold. Of course, so far, 2002, 2007, 2011, I'm going to read you the comparisons of three general elections, and we're going to show you how much injustice has arisen in nudity. Only 18 parties in the 2002 elections made it past the AKP and CHP 10 per cent electoral threshold. The AKP, which received 34.26 per cent of the vote, won 66 per cent of the seats in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, 366 seats. The CHP, which received 19.4% of the vote, won 33 per cent of the seats, 178 seats. He was also elected nine independent candidates. We're coming in, in the 2007 elections, the AKP, CHP, and MPP have passed the 10 per cent threshold. The AKP received 46.58 per cent of the vote, gaining 62 per cent of the total number of seats in parliament, winning 341 seats. The CHP received 20.88 per cent of the vote, gaining 20.36 per cent of the total number of seats in parliament, winning 112 seats. In the 2011 elections, the AKP won 49.83 per cent of the votes in Turkey, the 327 per cent in seats, 59.5% in seats; the Republican People's Party won 25.98 per cent of the votes used; the national figure it received was 135.5% in seats; the National Movement Party received 13 per cent; the number of seats was 53; the number of seats was 9.6 per cent; the percentage of the independents were 6.57 per cent; the number of MPs won 35 per cent; the number of seats were 6.3 per cent. Now, when we look at all of these elections, there are 550 MPs in Turkey, 550 MPs, who have always voted below 50 per cent. Even if we accept 50%, what will he do? 275 lawmakers make 366, 327... if you look out for it, there are always 70, 80, 53 MPs. What does that bring? The thesis they're defending, sir, is stability. Dear friends, justice ensures stability, no stability in a place where there is no justice. If you prefer stability, you will be in violation of justice. It's also not represented by groups in the House that should be really represented, even though they're also overpaid, so they're not deserved. It's an obstacle to democracy, to freedom. It's also a theft charge. So the citizen didn't actually vote for the ruling party's ruling party, and the vote that didn't beat the election dam in that region is directly in the ruling party's house. It's a form of unjust gain, unjust gain, and theft. In this respect, in order to prevent this injustice, in order to ensure stability in the administration, I urge you all to support our offer of law and respect.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0053par0608	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0054par0610	Sustained, Mayor, we're more than that. So he's agreed to three parties.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit02spe0053par0611	No more, sir, not for him. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. (9/8) The main parliamentary investigation commission will hold an election for one open membership. I'm reading the names of candidates three times as many as the Republican People's Party for membership: Muğla MP Ömer Süha Aldan, İstanbul MP Osman Taney Kuruturk, Zonguldak MP Ali İhsan İkturk. Let's see who gets out. I'm going to put it in the bag, and I'm going to take it out; Istanbul MP Osman Taney Korutk is out, sir. Thus (9/8) the main member of Parliamentary Investigation Commission has been elected İstanbul MP Osman Taney Kuruturk. Tokat MP Orhan Decent has been nominated for one member of the Republican People's Party Group, which has been vacant in the Human Rights Review Commission. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0053par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 12th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the agenda's "Preparations for General Interview and Assembly Research." According to the decision taken, İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu and 21 MPs (10/34), İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu and 22 MPs (10/55), Kars MP Birtane and 22 MPs (10/679), Ağrı MP Halıl Aksoy and 22 MPs (10/10/10/10), Minister of the HDP Group (10/10/10), Minister of Parliament (11/1010/10/10/10/10/10) Minister of Parliament (11/10/10/10/10/10/10) and MP of Parliamentary Party (11/1010/10/10/10/10) Government? Here. Now, I have arranged for Mardin MP Erol Dora and 21 MPs (10/1091), Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı and 19 MPs (10/1103), Adıyaman MP Mehmet Erdoğan and 23 MPs (10/1104), Bursa MP İlhan Demiröz and 22 MPs (10/1107) who have not been submitted to information from their parliamentary research proposals. The full text of all proposals that will be discussed in a jointly discussed magazine will be included. [[x]] To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Seasonal farming in Turkey is an important political problem. It occurs in many counties of our country, affecting hundreds of thousands of children directly or indirectly. In order to investigate and resolve the problems of children who work as seasonal agricultural workers or whose families are affected by seasonal farming migration, the Constitution requires that parliamentary research be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Interior Charter. [[Mardin]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] About a quarter of employment in Turkey is in agriculture. This rate is 48.2% for working women and 41% for working children. Due to the nature of agricultural production, the seasonal need for increased labor is met by seasonal traveling and local agricultural workers. As a matter of fact, according to official estimates, about 300,000 people work as seasonal and mobile farm workers, leaving their settlements at certain times of the year and moving elsewhere. In the seasonal agricultural work sector, children's seasonal work or seasonal migration with their family poses significant risks for the child's education, development and health in the short term. The child can be separated from the training process, injured in accidents, or even lost his life. Due to negative housing conditions and severe labour conditions, many temporary and permanent health problems can also occur because of poor nutrition. All these negatives that the child has been exposed to in the short term, particularly health and education, can be difficult to reverse in the long term. The fact that the individual left the education process early as a child may lead to continued poverty and deprivation, but also to chronic health problems for the rest of his life as a child and the negative housing and working conditions he suffered during the seasonal migration. Again, working as an agricultural worker or participating in a seasonal agricultural migration can have a negative effect on the child's emotional and social development in terms of violence, negligence, abuse and social exclusion. Children involved in seasonal farming need to be resolved and removed from these sectors immediately. First, with the mandatory training period increased to 12 years in 2012, seasonal farming will prevent more children from continuing their mandatory education regularly. In addition, the Emergency Precautions Convention on the Prohibition and Extermination of Children's Work on Bad Conditions 182 envisions the removal of labour in agriculture, which was one of the worst forms of child labor by 2015, for all children, except for family jobs, for mobile and temporary agriculture, for all persons who have not turned 18 years old. In order to address problems in education, health care, housing and so forth with children who are seasonal agricultural workers or who have been immigrated with their families, we would like to submit the need for parliamentary research in order to make the legal arrangements on this matter more comprehensive. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Charter, in order to address the current issues of our citizens going to other cities, housing, education, health, security, relations with social environment, working and social security in order to address these problems. [[Inconceived]] [[Mersin]] [[Kayseri]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] [[Adana]] [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kütahya]] 13) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] 14) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] 17) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Samsun]] [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] On 31 October 2014, 18 people were killed and 26 injured, most of whom were injured in the accident in the accident of the accident in which our workers from Akparta district of Akparta went to collect apples on the road to Akşehir-Yalvaç. This accident, which has caused our nation great sadness, has once again revealed the problems of seasonal farm workers. The basis for these problems is unemployment, poverty, debt, and desperation. More than 1 million seasonal agricultural workers are estimated in Turkey, and most of them are known to be women and children workers. Seasonal agricultural workers are also employed for long working hours, hard working conditions and low wages, as well as problems in nutrition, housing, education and health care. With very low wages, heavy working conditions, and no guarantees, the seasonal agricultural workers are worthy of human dignity and do not have safe transportation, and accidental injuries or deaths are the most common problems among farm workers, and workers are not protected from business accidents. In the Turkish legal system, regulations for seasonal agricultural workers are extremely inadequate and there is no special law on seasonal agricultural workers. Agriculture workers have no job guarantees, economic and social rights. Agricultural workers pay their brokers to find work through the means they call it. According to the Agricultural Co-operation Act of 27/05/2010, even though it has been arranged that no one can mediate without a certificate of intermediary and that the brokers cannot charge workers, the practice does not comply with it, and there is not enough and effective audit on this subject by the Turkish Business Agency or local property management authorities. The Prime Minister's Office has issued a summary of March 24, 2010, 2010 and 2010/6 on the development of labour and social lives of mobile agricultural workers, and the Ministry of Labor and Social Security in 2010 has prepared "The Strategy and Action Plan for the Development and Social Life of Traveling Workers" in 2010, but it is considered that the measures set in the general and action plan have not been implemented, and that there has been no distance to achieve the goals envisioned. Legal regulations must be made to improve living and working conditions and to ensure legal protection, especially for seasonal agricultural workers, in areas such as nutrition, housing, education, health and social security. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully submit to the opening of a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution's 98th and Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Union, 104th and 105th Articles, in order to determine the working conditions of seasonal agricultural workers who are having problems in the field of working relations in our country, and all the measures that need to be taken in this regard. [[Adıyaman]] 2) Stopped Mehmet Kastal [[Osmaniye]] [[Kars]] [[Fractured]] [[Adıyaman]] 6) Lightning M. Ramazanoğlu [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Bolu]] [[Bingöl]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Bolu]] [[Bartin]] [[Çanrı]] [[Scholarship]] [[Yozgat]] [[Sivas]] [[Bayburt]] [[Aksaray]] [[Samsun]] 22) Tofik Ziyaeddin Akbulut [[Tekirdağ]] [[Inconceived]] 24) Mehmet Emin Dindar [[Şırnak]] In Turkey, before the 1950s, there was a condition of not leaving the land rather than immigration, tribal and peasantry, but a rapid population growth, as in the fact of the Southeast Anatolian region, has revealed the fact that there was a seasonal farm worker who had limited land and employment and alternatives to agriculture after the 1950s. The story of seasonal agricultural workers starting in cotton production in Çukurova continues today in all Turkey to include almost all crops in harvest periods. The number of seasonal labor is around 40 per cent, including 25 per cent of the country's employment. That's about a million people, women, children, older, younger. The problem begins with high unemployment rates in the cities where workers live. The lack of opportunities to work in Southeast Anatolia, the imbalance of soil distribution in rural areas, limits the means for living for those who live here. Usually in every province, April begins the journey in May. Unfortunately, they're set up in traffic accidents that occur on the country's agenda. At first, the journeys with trucks began to wane as the inspections increased. Nowadays, workers continue their dangerous journeys, such as their beds, rugs, and kitchen items, carrying too much weight from their capacity. When they arrive at their workplaces, their shelter is another important problem area. Workers spend almost all their time in the open. The tent dwellings created by workers are open to all natural conditions, with no kitchens, no bathrooms, no water access, limited access to water. In fact, this journey is not a temporary process with many consecutive migrations. When it comes to working relationships, we can't get a better look. The working relationship of workers consists of the middleman and employers, either called the messenger or the chief. Workers have no right to demand anything from the employer. All relationships are made by the apostles, and they make the workers depend on them. In 2010, the Ministry published the 6th Generalate in order to produce a solution to the original conditions of seasonal agricultural workers. It is extremely important for seasonal agricultural workers to identify and resolve their original problems. Some projects have been launched after this, and projects in many counties have been implemented that aim to use the housing problems of workers, the rights to children's access to education. In some areas there are efforts to establish facilities with electricity and water connections, tent schools, mobile toilets and baths. In 2011, car regulations in the agricultural business, which took effect, try to control the activities of agricultural vehicles, but are also considered to be large issues. The problem, however, is not only possible with the state's provisions for living conditions and working relations. It is clear that during the EC PARTY administrations, seasonal labor in agriculture was first identified as an important source of problems, with serious observations and impressions, the problem was largely identified, important studies related to bringing solution proposals, although its legislation was created, were still completely eliminated, or there was still no area in complete order. Therefore, we feel that it would be appropriate for the Constitution to set up a research commission on Articles 104, and 105, in order to further investigate the issue, bring solution proposals, and activate the implementation of the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seasonal traveling and temporary farm workers are workers who have been remembered only for years in car accidents during harvesttimes. These memories are not identified for the real causes of the problems, but are remembered only for the deaths of their accidents, for those who can't go to school, for the negative conditions of living in tents. In our country, however, life is always under very difficult conditions for seasonal agricultural workers. Every year during harvests, all kinds of safety and traffic rules are turned upside down, and from one place to another, the truck fills up like a pile of fish in open and closed vehicles. These workers are trying to live off of education and education and very low wages for children whose housing and feeding conditions are not appropriate, without social rights. In particular, the fundamental problems of our seasonal agricultural workers from eastern and southeast areas are the problems they face socially, economically and culturally. These are the biggest problems of our workers having no permanent jobs to produce and adapt to where they are. Hence, during certain periods of the year, they leave where they live only to survive and work more in the Aegean, Çukurova, and the Black Sea region for three or four months. It has become possible to see our seasonal farm workers in almost every area and province of ours that's been harvested recently. Bursa Yenişehir, Mustafakemalpaşa, Karacabey is a majority in our districts. Although some regulations were sometimes brought to our seasonal farm workers to escape these conditions, the implementation resulted in fatal accidents that were not met by such regulations. In order to ensure that the basic human rights of our seasonal agricultural workers, in the field of job health and employment, which are incompatible with human rights, which do not include the understanding of the social state, which does not include children, women, and elderly, are not provided with regular nutrition and education; I respectfully submit to the opening of the Constitution's Constitution, under Articles 104, and 105, in order to determine the reasons for their problems and measures to address their problems. [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] 3) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] 4) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 6) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Bolu]] 8) Osman Oktay Sorik [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Erzincan]] [[Adana]] 12) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 13) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] 14) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Osman Faruk Logoglu [[Adana]] 19) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 20) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] It has been presented to your knowledge. According to our Interior Charter, it will be promised to the government and political party groups, respectively, and to the first signee in the motions, or to another signator, in order to ensure that the parliamentary investigation will not be opened. Their talking time is twenty minutes each for the government and the groups, ten minutes for the motion holders. I'm now reading the names of the members who have been quoted: On behalf of the government, Minister of Youth and Sports Akif Çazatay Sword. On behalf of the groups: Hakkari MP Adil Zozani on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı; Ankara MP Gökhan Morning on behalf of the People's Party Group; Adıyaman MP Mehmet Erdoğan on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. As the main proposal holder (10/1091) Mardin MP Erol Dora (10/1099), Gaziantep MP Mehmet Candy (10/1103) as the main motion holder, Seyfetttin Yilmaz (10/114) will speak as the main adviser to Adana, Kars MP Yunus Kılıç (10/114). As the first speaker, the government will have the word. Minister of Youth and Sports Akif Çağatay Sword, here you are, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0055par0271	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the government on parliamentary research motions issued by all political parties regarding the problems of seasonal agricultural workers. I salute you all with love. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, seasonal agricultural workers have been on the agenda of Turkey for years. Our citizens are leaving their homes behind and leaving all over our country on the road for work and for food. In fact, we want our citizens to have jobs where they live, but the difficulty of living conditions is that there are no lands to work, or lack thereof, forcing our citizens to a partial migration. This expedition of seasonal agricultural workers brings with it a variety of socioeconomic challenges. Citizens who go with their families to work in other cities face various challenges, such as transportation, housing, education, health, safety, social relations. It was released on March 24, 2010 and the Prime Minister's General Assembly 2010/6 to address these problems. On the other hand, as the Ministry of Labor and Social Security between 2010 and 2013, we launched the Project to improve the Work and Social Life of Seasonal Traveling Agricultural Workers. For four years, a total of 96 million Turkish liras have been transferred to our immigration 38 provinces. In this area, we have served 326 thousand seasonal agricultural workers in areas such as health, education, housing, infrastructure. So, what did we do under this project? First, we built tent villages where seasonal workers work to provide shelter. We've equipped these settlements to respond to any human needs. We made their way, we took care of electricity, water, infrastructure. In addition to their basic needs, we have implemented practices that will not interfere with the education of children, including children's playgrounds. If schools are close to tent settlements, we've provided our children with a carry-on system, if not a tent school. We have not only improved the working and living conditions of our seasonal workers, but also the social security conditions. We have provided 30 days of service by paying a premium of 21 days, including 5510 citizens working on a service contract in agriculture. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, these projects will continue with the contributions of our local governments. Besides, programs are being implemented throughout our country for the benefit of the community, especially in the cities where our seasonal workers live intensively as the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. In the last five years, 622,000 people have benefited from these programs. And with this program, our goal is to provide our citizens with jobs where they live. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are 25 per cent of our country's employment workers in the agricultural sector. For the first time in this period, workers in the agricultural sector were included in occupational health and safety number 6331, which took effect in 2012. Of course, problems are over. It is our duty to solve the problems of all our employees, not just seasonal farm workers. As a government, we make the ultimate effort to solve problems. With the approval of our four parties for this purpose, I believe the Parliament's research commission will be a guide. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0056par0278	Thank you, Mr. Sword. On behalf of People's Democratic Party Group, Hakkari MP Adil Zozani. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0057par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, on behalf of our group, I have pledged to share our views with you today, on behalf of our group, regarding the establishment of a joint parliamentary research commission, with four political parties in parliament on a motion brought through our group last week. I salute you all. It is, of course, a joy that, first of all, in regard to the problems of seasonal agricultural workers, the Parliament will set up a research commission, whether late or not, to investigate these problems in place and to set up a commission on the development of solution proposals. However, it does not necessarily require that workers die in order to establish these commissions; it does not necessarily require that the workers die somewhere and then the Parliament, oh, my God, in what circumstances do these people live or live? It does not need to address these problems. We think the House should show reflexes to develop such measures before people die. Look -- of course, other groups have research proposals, they have motions for the establishment of research commissions -- only our group has 13 proposals. There are 13 proposals for this period, so there are 13 of them related to the 24th term, some of our research proposals are from the 23rd term, and we downloaded the motion here, but it's up to today. We're going to try to save from this day forward, which is good. We say, "It's a profit wherever you turn from the wrong side." We say, "It's a profit." And we want to say that we're happy to welcome the Parliament's decision to make such a decision. It's important because from time to time, we'll have the opportunity to see the problems we're talking about from these platforms in the field. Many of the representatives here have already come here -- I'm sure -- when they were young, when they were young, maybe through those countertops, knowing that suffering is here, and they've been through it. But it's a process to remember, and it's a bleeding wound to this country. In particular, it is important to note that seasonal workers in the agricultural sector have no social security. None of these people have social security. There's a bonus that they have to pay the state whether they work later or not, which is the epiphany of the last year, there's no prior arrangements, there's no social security at all; let's note that aside. Look, I'd like to share a passage from a novel I read years ago. A large part of Yilmaz South -- you know -- is related to Çukurova. His art is related to Çukurova, and his inspiration is the Çukurova of Yilmaz South. The novel Yasar Kemal, which Yaşar Kemal wrote, which means something good -- you must have read it -- which means that there's a good thing, which is that Yilmaz South has a good definition of the problems of these farm workers, and I want to describe it by adapting it to the government. What's he saying? I mean, I'm putting the government's notice there: to understand the problems of these government members, these workers, the workers who work in the agriculture sector, they have to bring them in and work in the field in August heat to know their problems. Otherwise, they don't understand the situation, they really do. Either the workers are going to die underground, or in traffic accidents, 46 people will be transported to death in a vehicle of 27 people, which is a hell of a way to die, an accident. No one calls it an accident anymore, yes, it's a real disaster. He doesn't remember much about what happened before, so how many trailers fell in this country, how many trucks fell down, how many workers died in those vaults? Even the statistics of this have become very rare. I regret to inform you that in the period of the EC PARTY Governments, 11 years, on average 1,315 workers died a year, a total of 14,455 workers died. How many workers died during Mr. Faruk Çelik's term as the longest-term Ministry of Labor and Social Security in the Republic of Turkey? The statistics in his day are much worse. During the five-year ministry, 8,504 workers died. His annual average is much bigger than the government's annual average. An average of 1,700 workers lost their lives in the period of Faruk Steel. Yet, some say that the employer's ruthless greed for profit, and try to cover it up, trying to make him forget himself. Yeah, well, we already know that there's a ruthless desire for profit at the root of this, and we've said it over and over again. You tried to sell us our arguments, you started using the concept of violent capitalism. We knew all of this, and we've expressed it over and over again. Now, the Minister is trying to conceal his own responsibility with our concepts, trying to cloak it. No need, the public won't swallow. You'll do what's necessary. I think it's Thursday before Friday, so if you don't want any of this to come up on Friday, do what you have to do on Thursday, quit. You can't explain this, the average 1,700 workers lose their lives in your time a year, and you're going to say, "I have no responsibility." Is that going to happen? Look, I'll tell you where your responsibility lies. Just a few months ago, three or four months ago, we discussed the bag of law here. What was the law about the bag, what words did it come from? After the Soma disaster, the bag law came on the parliamentary agenda as a manifestation of the Prime Minister's commitments to the public due to the Soma disaster. What was there to be done? They were going to improve the conditions of working underground. However, no arrangement has been made, and no arrangement has been made regarding underground working conditions. You will say, "We have increased the wages, and we have reduced the working hours. You have not lowered the working hours, and so it stands. Wordplay has been made, with a last-minute motion, you've kept the working hours of people working underground equal to those working on the ground. A pun was made there. You said: "We will set up the living rooms. " It is the identification of Mr. Erkan Akçay. Forgive me, I will use the same expression here. He expressed it two days ago during commission work. At the cost of your palace, you can build 1,800 living rooms in the ground, with the money spent on the palace, and you can build 1,800 living rooms. He's calculated the cost, Congressman. There's nothing more to say about it.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0058par0292	That nation's palace
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0057par0294	You've become a wasteful, wasteful government. You've become the last to consider the rights and laws of the workers.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0058par0295	There are a thousand rooms in the palace, living rooms, yes
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0057par0297	What kind of politics have you come to this point? You've come to this point by running a cheap labor exploitation mechanism, and you've lost it. You were saying? The Prime Minister of the period, Mr. Erdogan, and Mr. President just two years ago, you said: "We will become Chinese while developing politics in these matters, we will compete with China." What did you compete with China? You competed with China by operating the labor exploitation mechanism. Now you've created a monster that swallows you, too, the subcontractor. You've come to a point where you can't afford it anymore. Even under this roof, even under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, all interim services of parliament have been delivered to subcontractors. If the council itself is able to run subcontractors, if it is able to perform its services through subcontractors, then woe to the citizen. Now you can't get in the way. And you don't have a chance to get ahead of him, because as a government, you literally have no intention of correcting these conditions. If there is, it's making you forget yourself over the periodic crises, it's making you forget the problems. There's no more supplies, and there's no more material for you to use. Well, when you're already in too much trouble, Israel's got your help. Whatever wisdom it is, when this government is troubled about something, if it starts to have problems, if Israel can't explain itself in domestic politics, then Israel starts a crisis, and the government lies on it, trying to make it forget the truth. I mean, all this equivalence, all this cognitive motive, no one would even think of it in a crime novel. You cover it up, and every time you're stuck with Israel, you fit in somewhere. But developing politics there isn't what you do.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0059par0299	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0057par0300	There's a parentheses. Let me start off as a parentheses, because you said it had nothing to do with it. In this regard, if you are in a position not to accept the auspices of Israel on the subject of the Masjid-i Aksa, you will suspend your military and commercial agreements with Israel, and you will react. If you can't do that, invite the Israeli Ambassador to the Prime Minister and warn him. Do one of these. If you do one of these things, we'll believe you. Let me close the parenthesis here, and I think you've had enough answers.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0060par0303	People believe us, it doesn't matter if you believe us.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0057par0304	Now, when this government remembers the farm worker, I'll tell you: when he's going to play with employment statistics, he remembers the farm worker, remembers when he's going to resort to deception. TO make Turkey's employment figures look lower in TİK data, this government remembers and remembers farm workers, farm workers, and agriculture workers very well there. Because we're not talking about less ice, we're talking about the problem of 6.5 million people, we're talking about the problem of 6.5 million people working in agriculture as seasonal workers. When he works three months, four months, five months a year alone, when he works temporarily, when you somehow include him in the statistics, you minimize unemployment data, you get a chance to lower unemployment data. Now, the Minister boasts that he says: "Our unemployment rate is 9.8%, and we've swallowed it!" So it is. It's about 14% when you calculate this off-grid figure. WHEN you add people who don't apply to the TÜİKÜR, who don't go to İSKUR at some point with a request for work, the number is 20 per cent. So, the unemployment figure in Turkey is almost twice the number you've explained as a government -- the technique's statistical trick. That's not the truth. If that had been the truth, if it had been the way you described it, there wouldn't have been so many people on the street complaining about unemployment in coffee corners. So there's a problem with your calculations, obviously there's a problem. How do we know? Now, there's a TİİK that does private accounts and transactions for ministers and ministries in Turkey!) Each minister has a calculation according to what he needs; each minister has a figure that puts a number in front of him according to what he needs, and plays with statistics!) For example, he prepares numbers for the Minister of Finance, sends them. In that figure it says that the participation in the labour force has been reduced from 56 per cent to 48 per cent over the past five years. That's what the Finance Minister is offering us. The Minister of Labour and Social Security comes in -- he was given a separate number, or the ministers shared it with us as TİİK data, so we have to say, "We call it TİK data" -- says: "It's increased from 47 percent to 51 per cent. Who do we believe? We have a statistical institution that prepares data to deliver to the address, and based on the data of this statistical institution, we have a perception management in Turkey. The government's trying to run the business this way, but up to a point where they can be hidden, covered up to a point, and then they've come up with examples of all of this, obviously, over and over again. Now, since there's going to be a study in the agricultural sector, there's going to be a commission, I've basically said nothing about the problems of that area. I didn't get into any of the decisions about the misery of those people's children, the problems of education, how this cheap labor force in the agricultural business has turned into a wheel of exploitation because when this commission lands on the field, it will see all of these realities when it talks to these people in the field. But we'd also like to remind the government that in 2010, a research commission for the mining business industry was established and the report of that research commission came to the Assembly's agenda. Somewhere in that report were the problems of the mines in Soma, and the dangers that could be faced. It's been so long, five years, no one's thought of it, so he didn't have time to bring it on the agenda of the House, and he did much more important things. But there are some things you can think of. You are very skilled at not fulfilling the requirements of the Law on Occupational Safety. And now it's a matter of the failure to employ occupational safety professionals who have been thrown out of their hands and delayed to 2016, in order not to fulfill the law adopted by the Assembly in 2012. When we talked about the subcontractor's law, we saw this in the episode where we talked about the subcontractors with the Soma issue, with the last-minute development... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to lighten the burden of businessmen who work in the field, who own this sector, you have postponed part of their implementation obligations to 1/1/2015. Let's hope this commission's report is not the result of the reports that the commissions have already established. I'd like to thank you all for your success with the commission.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0061par0313	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0062par0317	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on our motion to open a parliamentary investigation into the problems of seasonal agricultural workers. I salute you all. According to data from the Turkish Statistical Agency, about 23 per cent of the total employment in our country operates in the agricultural sector. It is estimated that half of this is made up of seasonal agricultural workers. The majority of seasonal agricultural workers are also known as women and children. Seasonal agricultural workers, especially transportation, are working under long working and hard working conditions and low wages, as well as problems in nutrition, housing, education and health care. Accidents involving deaths and severe injuries are common in the absence of safe transportation and honor of seasonal agricultural workers. This time, the news has come from Akşehir. On October 31, 2014, 17 people were killed in a tragic accident, most of whom were injured, in a tragic fall on the road to Akşehir-Yalvanç, in which farm workers from Akparta district of Isparta went to collect apples. In Akşehir, the fires fell on the stoves, and the tears flowed, and the young saplings were lost, but the poor! Their children were left in the middle! The cries of their fathers and their mothers, who wept, made the heavens of Akhir a groan, and made their hearts bitter. Once again, I wish God's mercy on our brothers who died in the accident, patience and condolences on their families, and immediate healing for the wounded. This accident, which has caused our nation a great deal of grief, has once again revealed the problems of seasonal farm workers. The root of the problems is unemployment, poverty, debt, and despair, which is clearly seen in Akşehir. Our people, Akşehir, Tuzluçı, and Yunak, who migrated to the suburbs of Akşehir because they could not make a living in the villages of Yunak, are struggling to survive with one eye, two eyes, five or six people in their homes. Our young people, our daughters, our brides, some school allowances, some dowry money, some family budget contributions, some beet anchors, some apple picking, some over 12 hours of work, and they get 30 or 35 lira in return. The sergeant, who drove himself to this job, cuts 15-20 liras of his 50 liras from the employer as commission and service money. At the risk of endangering the lives of people with no other choice, 46 people have to ride a stockpile of fish on a 23-man stomach. And yet I ask those who say that we have three times as much per capita income as we make fun of our people: Why can't our people in Akşehir, Yunak, Yunak, and Tuzlucı take this $10,500 share? Who is siphoning money from each farmer, each of our farm workers? Who resets these coins, whose shoeboxes, whose clothing covers, whose chocolate boxes, whose steel safes, come to our nation and tell us all about them. While farm workers live in tents, one-bedroom houses, offering to build living rooms in mines is denied, agricultural workers who have built a thousand-room royal palaces with the money of 1.5 quadrillion lira, while moving in trucks and trailer cases, people who have to ride fish stock cars have to pay $410 trillion for all of this. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it seems that he was trying to escape account and change the agenda, Mr. Prime Minister, who, when, went to the region during the Marchan earthquake, the disaster of the century 15 years ago. In this regard, our president, the President, has raised a simple, cheap, twisted, false question to the President of the State Garden. Mr. Prime Minister, why didn't you come to Akşehir? Why didn't you go to Akşehir district of your constituency? Did you not hear the deaf sultan hear the cries of our countrymen? Answer me this first. Mr. Prime Minister, let go of the past, come to this day, come to Akşehir. When funerals are being buried in Akşehir, you don't bother to share the pain of our fellow citizens from the hotel where you camp 100 kilometers away, and then talk to others in guilt. In Akşehir, what happened in Ermenek is a disaster, a murder. As a political officer, answer for them first. When you're unable to evacuate water from the mine, you get up and compare it to the disaster of the century. If you look at the documents, the files you have at the PM's office, you'll see what's been done about the Marmara earthquake, how the wounds are wrapped up. Our friends from the National Movement Party at the time were in the area from the early hours of the earthquake. Mr. President-General Bahçeli, as Deputy Prime Minister, went to the earthquake site, studied his work in place, and, with the quality of the government, he lovingly embraced and shared the pain of our earthquake-defying citizens. But he didn't stone thousands of police officers and gendarmes like you to the mountain with an army of bodyguards, he walked around with a tight staff and no damage to the search and rescue efforts that I was in. He didn't go on a plane like you, he drove to town, county, village and village, all over the area of the earthquake, taking care of our citizens. Like you, he didn't get our citizens to curse and kick his advisor. In eight months, the wreckage of the Marmara earthquake, where 374,000 dwellings were damaged, was removed, and in ten years you were able to remove the wreckage of the Emerald Apartment, which had migrated in Koniah. While these are as clear as day, the Prime Minister is trying to distort the issues and change the agenda. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister again about Akşehir. What did you do for Akşehir in the 12-year AKP administration? You have not seen Akşehir, who deserves to be a province, and has been waiting for years, but you have ignored him. Akşehir went back in your day. The population of Akşehir was 114,918 in 2000, with its villages and villages, and its population declined every year to 93,883, as of 2013. According to address-based census results, the population of Turkey has increased by 7.2 per cent over the past five years, while the population of Akşehir district has decreased by 2.4 per cent. In particular, villages and towns are empty. And why is that? As you did not make new investments for the young people of Akşehir, you have set up obstacles. You have victimized Akşehir with your incentive policies. With your wrong agricultural policies, you have destroyed our farmer, our peasant, and left his homeland and forced him to migrate to the slums of the cities. You even dried up Lake Akşehir, and took no precautions. As you did not give agricultural support to our citizens for the goods that they have spent years paying taxes on and around Akşehir Lake, you have caught him. High levels of inputs, such as diesel, fertilizer, energy, medicine, seeds, have made it difficult for farmers to produce in your time, while the price of products is in place. Our farmer, our peasant, doesn't even have the strength to buy diesel and fertilizer. Like cherries and cherries, it doesn't even save you the expense of picking fruit. Droughts and frostings hit the grains and fruit. Sugar beets don't pay. Nowadays, farmers who rip off their beets and hand them over to sugar factories are trying to figure out how to compensate for the damage caused by the low polarity of beet sugar. But you don't care, you think our farmer, our peasant, is in great shape. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the government makes statements when it's done and it's not the truth. Last Thursday, in a presentation by Mr. Prime Minister, along with his ministers for the new economic programme, which appears to have been prepared by the method of cutting and paste, the Minister of Agriculture asked about workers working in the mine at Ermenek: "Nufus is increasing, people are doing agricultural activity, but agricultural activity is not an activity that takes 12 months of the year, but he wants to do another job for the rest of the year. If there's economic activity there, for example, if there's a chance to work in a mine, then he goes and works in a mine. He says that Karaman said that there was a serious increase in agricultural production, and the Prime Minister confirmed that he was encouraged to produce cherries and that he was encouraged to produce cherries in the region. For God's sake, what population growth, what agricultural production, what incentive is mentioned in Ermenek, and in the region? You think people go underground and work for a hobby, picking apples for sport. When they see what conditions our people live in, they should be ashamed of themselves. You haven't seen the clothes, the helmets, the rubber shoes, the nylon shoes that are often shown in television and newspapers these days? Turkey's population increased by 7.2 per cent in five years, and what about the population in Ermenek? Down 4.1 percent in five years, especially the villages and towns. It's the same situation in the same area, in Karaman and the other districts of Iconya, in the Toros. Over 19 per cent of the population in Majoria in five years, over 11 per cent in Sarıves, 14.5 per cent in Tashkent, 12.5 per cent in Hadim, 11 per cent in Bozır. The region is dying of economic problems. What about the Prime Minister? Speaking of which, he says he's the son of the Toros, but he doesn't even know the Toros' son. Ermenek is the most backward region of our country in the Toros, our villages, in the economic development of our country, including our district of Tashkent, where the Prime Minister was born. In Toros, unemployment is extreme. My fellow citizens, in dire difficulty with their livelihoods, are up to their necks in debt. In the meantime, the ministers recently said that the loan debts of workers trapped in the coal mine in Ermenek would be expunged, while other workers and tradesmen's loans would be delayed for three months. Now, how about this, dear friends? When banks give loans, they're insured. If a person loses his life, it's covered by insurance. So the loan debt will be wiped out, which means nothing more than mocking our noble person in Ermenek. On the other hand, under the Prime Minister's orders, 100,000 liras were sent to Akşehir from the Support and Solidarity Fund to Akşehir. The family lost relatives in the accident, the municipality paid 500 liras, 500 liras a runt, and the wounded were given 250 lira. Did you hear that? This was announced by press conferences in Akşehir. Would it be a commercial for help, guys? Why do you offend our people? What we believe is that not even the other hand can see what one hand can give us. Besides, how many days are they gonna make out with this money? I'm telling the Prime Minister, you haven't done it yet, so take care of your hometown and your countrymen. I ask you in this context: Will you also make arrangements for the death of 301 miners who died in the Soma disaster to erase the debts of our workers who lost their lives in Akşehir and Ermenek, as well as for their families, their families, and their fathers, that they will not be sought out by the law? Will you give these families jobs? Or will you cover up the disasters and say, "There are accidents in the fringes of agricultural workers and miners?" Dear lawmakers, regulations for seasonal agricultural workers in the Turkish legal system are extremely inadequate and there is no special law on seasonal agricultural workers. Agriculture workers have no social security, economic and social rights. Farm workers pay brokers to find jobs through brokers called sergeants or uncles. According to the Agricultural Co-operation Act of 27/05/2010, even though it is arranged that no one can mediate without a certificate of intermediary and that the brokers can't charge workers, it is not observed, and there is not enough and effective audit on this subject by the Turkish Business Agency or local property management authorities. The government must account for the reasons why it has not been followed by its own regulations, why our workers have been abandoned at the mercy of sergeants and uncles without any documents, and why there is no effective inspection. Also published by the prime minister's office on March 24, 2010 and 2010/6 on the improvement of labour and social life of mobile agricultural workers, and the Ministry of Labor and Social Security in 2010 has also created the Strategy and Action Plan (the implementation of the Law and Action Plan) but has not been implemented by measures set in the general and action plan that have not been implemented, and that have not been set any distance in achieving the goals predicted. By the way, Minister, a message has come from Jahanbeyli. Looks like our Sports Minister's gone. Mr. Minister's words are not true. In Jahhanbeyli, there were no tents, no schools, and he warned me. May I present to you his attention. The government must answer for its failure to implement the measures and actions it has set out to be carried out by those responsible for the tasks given. The legal arrangements for improving the living and working conditions of seasonal agricultural workers, especially transportation, to address their problems in areas such as nutrition, housing, education, health care and social security, and to take precautions, are required to ensure the legal protection of agricultural workers. According to our constitution, the state is obliged to take the necessary measures to improve the life level of employees, to protect employees to improve working life, to support work and to create an economic environment suitable for preventing unemployment. As of today, however, the most important problem in our country is unemployment, poverty, unsecured employment conditions, distanced, marketed social state understanding. The basic purpose of the social government is to provide everyone with a minimum life span that is worthy of human dignity. However, millions of workers across our country are being forced to work as slaves, for minimum wage, for 12 hours a day, without human rights, without job security, without job security. Public subcontractors and seasonal workers carry the hope of a staff, asking us all the time when they'll be recruited. As it is known, the court has ruled that he was an employee of the General Directorate of the Highways from the time these workers began their work. The Supreme Court has approved that decision. However, the AKP government has not implemented these judicial decisions in three and a half years. The workers are after their bread, they're after their rights. The AKP government must respect and fulfill its judicial decisions. He must respect the legal, right, and legitimate rights of the workers. It is a crime that these workers are still employed as subcontractors. The AKP government has been violating judicial decisions for three and a half years, openly committing crimes. Law proposals for the nationalist Movement Party, which envisions hiring subcontractors in public services, are unfortunately not on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The subcontractors must be appointed immediately and immediately before severance pay is restored to their rights. In fact, this parliamentary research motion should include the problems of subcontractors and seasonal workers working in public, suggestions that will bring a solution to the issue in a wholeness. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0063par0348	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Gökhan Morning. Here you go, Mr. Morning.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0064par0352	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, I care about Turkey's will to form a research commission together by four political parties, whose group is in the Turkish Grand National Assembly in a very important social issue, such as seasonal traveling and temporary agricultural workers. But that will has to be sincere and serious. With this prerequisite, this will becomes a will that can only be cared for. What do I mean? The government gave a speech here. Who gave the government's speech, folks? It was the Minister of Sports. How much of his 20 minutes did he use, Minister of Sports? He used four minutes. There are only two lines of seasonal agricultural workers in the government programme. In that case, we will set up a joint commission on something that the government is so close to, and we will investigate the matter. It is likely that when we see that the matter is not taken seriously enough from the beginning, it does not feel effective enough for us. I would like for such a social, serious issue to be handled together by four political parties, seriously and sincerely, and to offer a solution. Friends, we call it an important social problem. What are we describing? There is a very large agricultural sector in this country, but because we can't transfer enough technology to this agriculture sector, labor-industrial production continues, and in this country, especially from the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions, every year, to Central Anatolia, to the Black Sea, to the Aegean, to Çukurova, to the Çukurova, around 1.5 million citizens migrate with their families, with their families, with their children, with their babies, with their elders, with their elders. There are some very serious problems facing these people, and I want to stress specifically that these are the people at the bottom of this country. The International Labour Organization says that after construction and mining, the most risky working relationship is with seasonal agricultural workers. I claim that the mine is very dangerous, of course we know from the painful events we've experienced. Of course, every day at the construction site, our children, our fellow workers, die. This country has four workers' death statistics a day. However, in terms of working conditions, the life of seasonal traveling and temporary farm workers is far worse than any other class. These people's kids can't go to school. Look, I'm giving you a statistic, and even though these kids, these people, can't get into statistics, the statistics on education say: 94% of those who don't get to school regularly from the children of seasonal traveling, temporary farm workers. In the 21st century of Turkey, we are talking about that 94 percent of the children of a group cannot attend regular school. Does that make us feel anything? Does that require us to take sufficient precautions, making a call for this? Look, our friends just told us that 50 people were put in a van with 25 people, there was a car accident, dozens of men and women died. We often remember our friends when they die in truck safes, tractor vaults, and really, in conditions that can never be moved, these people travel long, not only from place to field, but from the provinces where they work, and hundreds of people die every year, but we continue to watch it as a series of films away from us. The terms of the accommodation are incredible. Sometimes it's a luxury if they can find a tent. The planks are stretched on the boards, and they are condemned to live by a stream. Mostly they don't have bathrooms, mostly they don't even have bathrooms. A local government unit doesn't think it's necessary to bring water there, bring electricity, because these people are practically outcasts. These people try to live with their children without any safety measures against all kinds of diseases, and my dear friends, in the cities where they go to anchor their fields, in the counties, they are often despised; they are subject to ethnic, racial discrimination, they deal with it, they face it. I'm about to count the measures the AKP government has taken against this, those tragic measures. But the government's approach to this issue -- the state within the nail -- is to increase security measures. So instead of solving problems as a social government, let's take their ID numbers and provide security for other citizens. It's a matter of social security. Look, I'm going to take turns: there's a well-functioning social security system in the Republic of Turkey. Now, I'm asking you, do any of you guys know how long seasonal agricultural workers last? Do they work eight hours, work ten hours, work 14 hours? Is there a place where this is arranged? There's no place where this is arranged. At least 12 hours, so let's underline it. It's a weekend. Officer, let's assume the worker has a week off, you've got an officer, you've got some workers. Does a seasonal farm worker have a week off? I'll tell you right now: no, they'll work for seven days. Do they have annual sabbaticals? There isn't. Are they under a protection from being laid off? They're not. Do they have the right to report and severance? There isn't. So here we, as representatives of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, will all be ashamed, and we will say that in the 21st century, we gave nothing to 2 million people working in this country in the field of business health and business safety and social security. These are the facts of Turkey. What's their diet? Friends, they've been investigated. A very important part of these people can eat chicken once a week, never eat red meat. Their diet is soup, potatoes, and cheesy pasta, and children, we unfortunately think that this level of life is appropriate for these people. See, my dear friends, according to statistics in Turkey 893,000 children work in the 6-17-year-old group. These 893 thousand of our children work as seasonal farm workers, and we all know that these children are forced to work under very bad conditions that would put their physical, spiritual, social development at risk, even if they need an economic conditions that do not abuse them. How are our women doing? See, as agriculture's revenue-producing property was lost, the men fled to the mines, fled to the constructions; agriculture was left to women workers in almost a significant amount. It's also named after fancy names: feminization of agriculture. When you say the feminization of my style, it seems like a good thing, a woman's touch would be a good thing. But what is the truth? We're talking about an industry where women's exploitation rates are even higher, and I'll point out again that agricultural workers are forced to work under all kinds of abuse and exploitation conditions. Now, let's face it, the AKP government has passed a variety of legislation on this issue. I wish the Minister of Sports could at least address these regulations in his speech. He didn't mention it, I'll mention it. Look, they've taken out the 6th General, Section 2010/6. What's the date? March 24, 2010. Friends, this Section 6 says that we will set up a monitoring board to monitor seasonal agricultural workers. What kind of board did they set up? Eight ministries, general managers, one union, and one Association of Turkey's Agriculture Rooms... So the ten-member board is a bureaucrat. I'm asking: if you could have solved this on your own as a government, why haven't you solved it until now? Even here, you're afraid to open a space for democratic mass organizations, NGOs. Then there's the county watch boards. A reflection of the same bureaucratic structure to the county. So we all know there's no work coming out of here. The general order says: "Traffic controls will be tightened." So if this hadn't been written in the general order, traffic inspection would not have been done, which would have been controlled by traffic police, trucks, trucks carrying seasonal farm workers, and trucks. Is there such a tragic thing, such an illegitimate thing? There's going to be a train ride, and the accommodations are going to be increased. Employers are reminded of their obligations, as if the employer's obligation is not mentioned in the labour code. The mobile facilitation facilities will be set up. Who's gonna set it up? The county will set up private administrations. There are already 30 major cities in this country whose state's private administration has been removed. I'm here from the Minister or from the AKP spokesman who will speak after me. We wrote the mobile facilitation facility. It's been four years now, and we've built this much, and I expect him to say, There's nothing wrong with writing here, you can't change life. There's going to be an update on social security. Has there been any improvement in social security? So we're sitting here in these colorful seats to fool each other? Last sentence, I come to the most important judgment. Do you know what the source of this sentence is, my dear friends? This is the source of the unemployment fund. May your mercy be ruined. If you're building a palace for $1.5 billion, and you're showing the source of the unemployment fund to solve the problems of seasonal farm workers, we're already in the middle of another realm. I'm saying all this because we have numbers. It's like, you know, you have to talk about it. What do you know? Perhaps their lives have improved. Look, guys, I'm telling you the situation that's been reflected in insufficient statistics is that we lost 269 farm workers in 2010, 292 in 2013, 322 brothers in 2014. Now, if we were to solve these problems by taking out this sentence, I don't think the number of fatal accidents would have increased. I'll tell you about the injury: 12,315 farm workers in 2010, our brother was injured, poisoned, strangled, crushed, hit by a car, 12,315 people. In 2013, the number rose to 23,723, so in the four years that we left behind, the number of workers who were injured was doubled by our brother, from 12,000 to 24,000. Now, so there's probably no point in fooling each other. Well, on behalf of Mr. Secretary who's not here again, the AKP has also taken out the 25th district, dear, I'll tell you that. What does Section 25 say? I'm going to make sure that the children of this seasonal farm workers go to school, says this chapter, dated 2011. I just gave you his stats. The percentage of these children do not attend regular school is 94 percent. If we could've solved the problem by writing this sentence behind a desk, I guess there wouldn't be a problem in the middle today. Well, there's also the regulation, and that's the Businessman's Code. Everyone who came up here said, "We haven't been able to get enough of these business tools into the system." Friends, I don't understand, forgive me, if I'm wrong, warn me. Who are these business agents? Who are the ambassadors, uncles, the people we're trying to get into the law? These workers have 30 lira salaries, 40 liras, and are the means to cut money off their wages and provide them with a income. Now, should a modern law state legalize these instruments, or should it make the working relationship a modern standard by eliminating these instruments? It's probably the second one, no doubt. Doing what? Of course we're doing the first one. We identify the existing system and write down the regulation. We don't need the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for that. If you assign three experts, they'll bring you a report within a week, as it is in this regulation. I mean, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you... you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you... you know, you know, you So I'm going to ask you one more time: do we really want to look like we're doing it, or do we really want to make an effort to get these 2 million people's lives into a proper standard by empathizing with us? My fellow lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I find it useful to address the problems of the farmer who employs them as we refer to the problems of the agricultural workers. The AKP spokesman who came up here all the time said: "Turkey, here, feeds 77 million people, over 25 million, sir, feeds tourists." I know the numbers, my friends. These people now say we're full of nothing, and I know the numbers. See, in 2003-2013, Turkey's money for agriculture and food imports is 121 billion dollars. If you divide it by the current exchange rate, you will see that 266 quadrillion liras have been paid for agriculture and food imports over the past 11 years. I thought you said Turkey could feed itself. If you don't spend 25 quadrillion liras a year, you don't see the need for this country's food and food industry. You guys know what's been done? Within 11 years, 27.5 million tonnes of wheat were imported in your power. I'm asking now, isn't there wheat produced in Iconia?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0065par0381	Flour is being exported, flour.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0064par0382	Is there no wheat in Adana? Don't they make wheat in Edirne?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0065par0383	We're the 1st in the world in exports of flour.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0064par0384	If you want to export flour, I'll talk to you about it over 70 percent, if you want to add value, not over there. Let's sit down together, and I'll tell you one by one that can't be explained by exporting flour. I'll tell you if you need me. Turkey is the first in wheat imports. You know what the number is, guys? We paid $18 billion for $27.5 million in wheat imports. Congressman, can't you produce the wheat for flour in your own country? Can't you make it? If the import of 27 and a half million tons of wheat doesn't embarrass you, what else can I tell you?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0066par0387	We've got money, thank God; our safe is full.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0064par0388	The money you took from the outside, from the outside, that's the debt you borrowed from the outside, let me explain it to you. That's cheap talk. I'm giving you a number, friends: Turkey's money for importing fatty seeds and derivatives is $54 billion during the AKP period. So this country can't produce sunflowers, this country can't produce cotton, it can't produce soy, you're moving $54 billion out. What do you produce and export in the food industry? I'll give you another number.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0067par0391	Give me a clear export in agriculture.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0064par0392	You can't get rid of it. You come in, we look at the World Trade Organization numbers, we see these statistics from there.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0068par0394	He's talking nonsense.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0064par0395	Cotton, cotton... this is the cotton country, isn't it? Friends, during the AKP period, Turkey imported 8 million tonnes of cotton and paid 29 billion liras in return. Do you know what this is all about? Ten years ago, the wheat was 30 cents, and the diesel was $1. So the guy who sold 3.5 kilos of wheat was able to buy a liter of diesel. Today, wheat is 65-70 cents, diesel is $5. To buy 1 liter of diesel today, the citizen must sell 7 kilos of wheat. So, what you're doing is persecution for the farmer, and under this persecution, Turkey has given up on two Thracian-sized areas. In the village of Sultaniye of Karacabey, five years ago, Ismail Hakk -- whose phone I can give you -- planted wheat, bankrupted; kibbled, planted, bankrupted; tomato planted, bankrupted; now shepherding. At age 65, K1 is pursuing a warrant to see if I can get my livelihood out of trucking. In a nutshell, these are the facts of Turkey. These seats are free, and they're not comfortable. If we're congressmen... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...with his power, with his opposition, we will see these facts and we will struggle to solve them. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0069par0403	Thank you, Mr. Morning. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Adıyaman MP Mehmet Erdogan. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0070par0407	Speak now, instead of there.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0071par0408	We're gonna start making small talk now.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0409	Mr. President, dear friends, thank you. Before me, I listened to three precious speakers.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0073par0411	But you don't understand. I'll tell you in advance, you don't understand.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0412	Here we, as four groups, said, "What can we do about the problems of the local farm workers?" We said, "Let's set up this commission to show the will to work together," but unfortunately, before we start talking about this, I'd like to share a few things with you. We're a net exporter country in agriculture.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0073par0414	Did you say "importer"? Did you say "importer" or "exporter"?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0415	He just told the CHP speaker, how did you give 50 billion dollars, 18 billion dollars?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0074par0416	Make peace with numbers, make peace with numbers. Not to shake it, to make up the numbers.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0417	Yeah, well, they don't understand, of course, that those who roll around the IMF doors to borrow $1 billion from the IMF are unaware of our attitude towards the farmer.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0075par0419	Come on, let it go!
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0076par0420	Yeah, they're cheap, polemic, cheap, cheap!
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0421	Those who lend to the farmer at 47, 59 percent interest, those who remove fertilizer support, those who don't provide diesel support, those who promise the IMF that we will make sugar beets and grain prices your way. Those who say, "Ooh, they don't understand our contact with the farmer."
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0075par0422	What's your connection? You didn't import hay? You didn't import meat?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0423	I'm afraid that's all they have to do with agriculture.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0077par0424	The Minister of Agriculture has arrived, look; there is the Minister, let the Minister speak.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0425	Plus, our Prime Minister expressed today at a group meeting, dear friends, dear friends; there's a Turkey that extends its hand as a mercy hand wherever there's an underdog in the world.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0078par0426	Yeah, never mind that, talk about agriculture, agriculture!
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0427	There is a Republic of Turkey that raises its voice wherever there is a tyrant in the world.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0079par0428	What's the big deal?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0429	In two days, there is a Turkey in its land, in its house, in its bosom, in its table, calling the oppressed ones in Kobani.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0079par0430	Is this agriculture or agriculture?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0431	You're a terrorist in Kobani. There's a Turkey that says you're a terrorist.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0079par0432	But after Obama showed me the bat...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0433	Yes, I am very sorry, dear friends, that the first qiblah of Islam, the Prophet of the Holy Mosque, who defiled the mosque with his boots, did not understand our contact with the holy place where he walked one night from the Sacred Mosque to Aksa. It's the voice of the Republic of Turkey that says, "You're cruel, you're terrorist, you're a murderer."
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0080par0435	The trade with Israel went up to $3 billion. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0436	All practices are now in the name of lowering the voice of the Republic of Turkey, but we hope that...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0081par0437	Do you believe that?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0438	As a litigator once said, hope and hope that this nation will have the greatest happiness in the future.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0081par0439	In history, this nation has never been so deceived.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0440	I leave our relations with Israel to the public's discretion, not at the level of embassy, but at the level of the first clerkship.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0082par0441	Mr. President, he's talking about Israel instead of talking about farm workers.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0442	Our beloved nation already realizes that we are concerned with the heart of the people, with the trouble of the nation, and we are moving on to the AK PARTI. He says, "We are taking good care of it." As the late Erdem Abi said, listen to the heart of the world, coming one step at a time, let the branches fall into the fruit, let the earth stand in the seed, let the man stand in peace, and let the peace stop in time. Yes, we are members of a Republic of Turkey, which extends our hand to it wherever there is an oppressor in the world.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0083par0444	Was that agriculture?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0445	If you're patient, I'll come.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0083par0446	I'm waiting.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0447	One thing at a time, I'm telling you what you did wrong, and you can't stomach it, you can't sit still. In Turkey, yes, there is a problem. There are 6.5 million farm workers. About half of them are seasonal farm workers. Each year, 1 million families migrate to work in the Aegean, Çukurova, the Black Sea region. Seasonal farm workers are transported by unsafe vehicles, living under unhealthy and bad housing conditions. Children who work illegally are deprived of their education. Every year, laborers who work between May and October die in traffic accidents because they're being transported by old vehicles, overloaded with capacity. Public opinion recognizes these workers as mortal traffic accidents and social problems. Our workers have many problems with working conditions, transportation, health, education, social security and social peace. The areas where workers reside are mostly natural areas that threaten human health, without infrastructure. The day-to-day hours of workers are 12 hours in the sun. There's no regularity in the fee. The workers who leave without a job are willing to work under any circumstances. The intermediary system of employment often brings wages and labour exploitation. Most of the workers without social security have green cards. Our young working with their families are leading to mental, physical problems, incomplete education, and child labor. These workers are sometimes treated as judicial or political potential criminals, and they are not considered in a suitable position as a result. These incidents also undermine the brotherhood and social peace. These workers, who have somehow reached a place where they can work, are threatened with first housing, health problems, especially the problems with their children's education problems, wages and social security, where they are, to be treated as potential criminals. These citizens are just trying to provide for their own wives and families. We know the problems we're facing, and maybe one of the main reasons why this problem is getting this big is because families have to go to work together collectively. From the baby in the arson to the 70-year-old, bedridden grandfather, everyone goes together, so to speak, everyone who holds hands must work together. We worked together to identify these problems. In 2007, my brothers who went from Adıyaman, my constituency, to the Black Sea, died in a car accident on the way to Sivas, and 24 of our brothers died. I ask for God's mercy, and for my brothers in Adıyaman, and for all our brothers who died because of it. We were already involved in a study after 2007. We tried to say, "What can we do?" But other than the work of ILO, MAZLUMDER, and the work of IHD, unfortunately, we didn't see much in that process, but we sat down as an AK PARTY group. Our Ministry of Interior, National Education, Health, especially our Ministry of Labor, has done a study and published a generalization. These were generalizations that wanted to solve the problem significantly. In March 2010, the Prime Minister issued a generalisation. Dear friends, this is the first and most important for the social community. Now, it's our duty here to follow the implementation of this generalization of all of our political parties, and we're going to talk about how we're going to follow the implementation of this sentence in the eyes of bureaucrats, governors, political institutions, what are its failing aspects, of course. But it was prepared with such a sincere, intimate language and an introverted view of the problem, and with it came such important innovations that had escaped many of us just now, as if they were mocking, these things are being done... you haven't read the regulations, you don't understand my desire for a citizen in my heart, you speak for him.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0084par0452	You read the code again.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0453	But my citizen, my nation, is supporting the election because he realizes that he has the same heart, the same problems, the same language. We're aware of what we're doing, but we're aware of what's going on, what's troubling, what's going on. So let's work together, set up a research commission. We also have work to do, so hand over a right, and fear God.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0084par0455	Fear God, there is nothing in the regulations.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0456	There are these, but are there any missing ones? Of course, there's something missing, so we'll talk about it together. For example, when our workers are being transferred from one place to another, why does it bother you that they are allelusted in government, state-owned guesthouses, instead of staying in bus stations, train stations, if they need to stay somewhere?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0084par0458	How many people have you invited? Tell me, give me a number, give me a number?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0459	I'll come, be patient, I'll come. In this general, health measures, the creation of mobile health teams, the hospitality of our children in boarding district schools, the creation of mobile classes if necessary, even the establishment of professions for young girls and young people who don't work there, even the construction of jobs. There's also a very important innovation in red tape, how's that? I've been waiting for a seasonal worker this year, and I've assigned a place for them, in this generality, to do the infrastructure, the traveling toilet, the oven, the lighting, and I need it to say, "Give me as much as this." Yes, the financial problem has been solved. In order for this not to become a so-called bloc, our Labour Minister has gathered the mayors and governors of all the municipalities and governors of all the cities that gave immigration, which were joined by the mayor of Diyarbakır Metropolitan and other parties of that day, and it was said here: We entrust you with the application area of this sentence. We're mobilising you with all the resources of the state. You are asked to prepare your projects, present them to the Ministry, and we will finance them. Where our workers have gone, the Seasonal Traveling Workers' Watch Committee, established in the migration and giving provinces, has also been established under the Ministry, and a monitoring committee that will also include representatives of the trade union, which operates in agricultural work, and representatives of the Union of Turkey's Agriculture Rooms and the desired civil society representatives. This monitoring board will follow the problems that arise every year due to this sentence and report the measures for next year to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0085par0463	Mr. Mehmet, then it's all right, it's all right!
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0464	You'll be patient. I've informed you of the existence of the problem, the rest of it, what we can do. Well, in 2010-2013, from the Ministry of Labor, in 2010 to 2013, the Development Project for the Work and Social Life of Seasonal Traveling Agricultural Workers was implemented in the cities where they worked as seasonal agricultural workers, with their families, especially our children, in order to identify and address the problems they experienced during this process.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0086par0466	Where?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0467	I'll be right there. Be patient. Sixty-five local projects have been supported by 38 municipal governorships since 2010, when the project began implementing. The number of seasonal workers under the project reached 326k. The grant for project financing is 96m euros. Did he just say: "Is there a substructure, ease facility, or is there money set up for it?"
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0087par0469	Then what happened? Why did the number of dead men increase, and why did the number of injured men increase?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0470	Be patient. Seventy-two million euros of the funds sent are housing, infrastructure and convenience facilities, 5m euros of education, 3m euros of health and 16m euros of other expenses.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0087par0472	Don't tell stories, give me numbers.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0473	Dear friends, after this action plan, serious measures have been taken and important practices have been implemented in previous years.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0088par0474	What were those coins sent with, with what?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0475	Especially because there are massed tent settlements in the cities where farm workers are employed, that the municipal public health departments have provided preventive health care in the area...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0088par0476	How much did you get for the scholarship?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0477	...in addition to the fact that the issue has been handled by creating county monitoring boards, we are unfortunately aware of the problems that have not been fully resolved in part or fully resolved in the process, and these problems continue. On the basis of these, the problems that come first, the problems caused by means of means, the problems caused by transportation, the problems caused by education. So we're going to work together with this research commission. Clearly, we all need to be completely human-based, leaving our political identities aside in such a painful human matter. Studies have been done, regulations have been published, monitoring boards have been established, civil society's contribution has been taken, and it will continue to be taken, but it is unfair to hold the government responsible for everything and to accuse the government of doing nothing about it.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0089par0479	Well, if there's a problem, the government is responsible.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0480	It's called political anxiety.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0090par0481	Who's in charge? Who should we hold responsible? Show me someone who will be held accountable.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0072par0482	But our heart is in Turkey, in the Republic of Turkey; from Edirne, to Kars, to Mersin, to Sinop, our hearts are in Arakan, Myanmar; our hearts are in Iraq, Syria; our hearts in Jerusalem, my heart in Aksa; I salute you in all the oppressed geography.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0091par0484	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0090par0485	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0091par0486	Here you go, Mr. Morning.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0090par0487	In his speech, he accused us of making such an important issue a political polemic matter. We, on the other hand, discussed the matter in a sincere manner. Therefore, I have a request for a word from the teaser.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0092par0488	There's no teasing. Of course you're political.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0091par0489	Here you go, Mr. Morning.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0093par0491	And have it wiped down, sir. It's always been butter. Let's get it wiped off, he'll slip and fall.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0094par0494	Thank you. My fellow lawmakers, at the beginning of my speech, I have pointed out that the four political parties handling such an important issue are beneficial in terms of the principle of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but I also said, "If we are serious, if we try to understand the misery of these 2 million people, we will solve the number of fatal accidents, if we pretend to be doing it, but if we pretend to be doing it, who will be held responsible for four minutes, and who will be held responsible for the government program? The friend says, "Should we hold the government responsible for everything? We will hold the government accountable for a cat, and we will hire someone. For him, I chose the government. The government is responsible for what is happening in this country, and will take the initiative to resolve those problems. Is it bad? Of course it's better than nothing. He's taken out the 6th General. I say what did you do about that sentence? The preacher reads poetry from here.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0095par0497	Are you uncomfortable with the mosque?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0094par0498	It's good to read poetry. I like poetry. Let's read poetry with you until morning, but right now, it's not about poetry. Right now, the goal is to take these two million people's jobs seriously, their problems. That's why I invite everyone to be serious. We're never doing this political polemic thing, we're trying to resolve it sincerely, seriously. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0096par0501	Thank you, Mr. Morning. Mardin MP Erol Dora, who is in charge of the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0097par0528	You came across a tough nut.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0098par0529	He's not tough, he's rotten.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0099par0530	I mean, it doesn't suit you. I'll return it to you again. If I say so myself, it'll suit you!
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0098par0531	I didn't tell you, I told the walnut, I didn't tell you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0100par0532	Congressmans, please... the speaker has arrived on the stand, and I will give him my word. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0101par0534	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party following a motion to open a parliamentary investigation into the problems of seasonal agricultural workers. I salute the General Assembly. The seasonal labour force migration occurs when people in rural areas migrate to major cities, where agriculture is concentrated or where tourism is developed for a while. With the rapid population growth in the countryside, people have begun to migrate with their families for reasons such as the shortage of agricultural areas per household, the continued high unemployment rates, and the mandatory immigration policies of the state in the conflicting environment, as well as agricultural and animalism, as well as the facilitating of the transport network. Dear lawmakers, seasonal agricultural workers face problems such as inadequate and unstable diet problems, health problems, extreme heat and exposure to the cold because of the impropriety of living and housing conditions. In addition, accidents and injuries are subject to the worst conditions of working life, such as premature deaths, such as lack of access to the ministry, and by experiencing the full extent of social exclusion, they form a special risk group in agricultural communities. Studies show that in developing countries more than 60 per cent of seasonal agricultural workers live below the poverty line and at least 80 per cent have no social security and 70 per cent work with their children in the fields. Mr. President, when we look at the state of seasonal agricultural workers in Turkey, it is estimated that some 300,000 seasonal traveling farm workers, given their number, cover at least a population of 1 million, along with child workers. In 48 cities in Northern, South and West Anatolia, seasonal traveling farm workers work. The feature of agricultural work is that the seasonal climate conditions, the level of technology use, as well as the economic conjunctural movements in the country can lead to changes in the number of seasonal traveling agricultural workers. It is known that seasonal agricultural workers who travel to other cities with their families in their purpose for work have failed to obtain many rights, such as housing, education, health care, and safety. Dear lawmakers, the problems of seasonal agricultural workers begin as soon as they come to work. In addition to the difficulties with safe transportation, housing and health problems during the study bring serious poverty and deprivation, conditions that endanger the lives of workers and their families. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, the workers who usually stay in tents during the work period, provide shelter without the necessary health conditions. In addition, health problems are common because of the strain of access to drinking water, the hard working conditions, the damage caused by chemicals used in the field to human health. In addition to all these problems, the social exclusion of workers and ethnic origins are sometimes exposed to hate speech because of their economic classes, it's a well-known sociological reality. According to TİK's 2013 data, the agricultural sector, which is effective in providing for an important part of the population in Turkey, represents about 23 per cent of the employed labour force. It is estimated that half of this area is produced by seasonal agricultural workers. The conditions of seasonal farm workers, whose numbers are substantially large, are not well suited to human dignity, but are also far from sufficient legal protection. Dear lawmakers, agricultural workers are transported to their workplaces under extremely unsafe, public transportation regulations and inhumane conditions. This brings the accidents with it. According to reports from the labour health and business council, 433 of the 1,215 workers who died in 2013 were killed in a traffic and service accident. According to the same reports, 290 workers from 1,314 workers who died in the first nine months of 2014 were killed in a traffic and service accident. Finally, we have recently seen the scope of the issue and the painful painting that can be uncovered in the case of the 18 workers lost their lives and 28 injured as a result of the fall of a midbus carrying apple workers in Yalvaç district of Isparta. Dear lawmakers, the midbus in Isparta, carrying the workers, was only 24 people. However, 46 people were present at the time of the accident, including the driver. No doubt, the government and the administration, who do not take the necessary measures and implement the greatest responsibility for surrendering public transportation to understandings that devoid of human life. Dear lawmakers, another reality revealed by the massacre of workers in Isparta is the subject of child labor. For example, 15-year-old Veli Can Çelik, who died in the accident, was a first-year student in high school and went to school that day to work with his mother to get her tuition. In the seasonal agricultural work sector, children work in seasonal agriculture for wages and seasonal migration with their family also poses significant risks for the child's education, development and health over the short and long period of time. Children can be separated from the training process, injured in accidents, or even lost their lives. Children can also experience many temporary and permanent health problems because of negative housing conditions and severe labour conditions and poor nutrition. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have done research projects in Urbana, Yozgat, the Army and Adana for the impact of the seasonal agricultural migration between six and 14-year-old groups, supported by the Development Workshop, the Dutch Embassy in 2011 and 2013. According to the stunning findings of the study, the 6-14-year-old group in the seasonal farming migration is considered the most participant in the study of children's work. Another striking finding is that children carry out water transport, looking after brothers, watching things, washing dishes, cooking, cleaning things. According to the same study, children who work in seasonal agricultural migration appear to work on average 11 hours a day. 97 per cent of the students involved in the study have registered at school. The reasons that 3% of children without school registration are not registered are various expressions such as "the family does not want to attend the seasonal farming migration, financial difficulties, Turkish knowledge, school is far away." Mr. President, valued lawmakers may have a negative effect on the emotional and social development of children as children, in order to work as farm workers or to participate in seasonal agricultural migration, to increase the vulnerability of the child in terms of violence, neglect, abuse and social exclusion. The problems of seasonal traveling farm workers are education, health, transport, security, housing, social environment relations, work and social security and so on. is multidimensional. Seasonal agricultural workers have been excluded from the laws that burden the employer with certain responsibilities, including the Labour Law, the Occupational Safety Act, the Occupational Health Act, the Trade Unions and the Collective Contract Act. It leaves them at the mercy of intermediaries, messengers, and bosses. This is basically an important part of the problems faced in working life, but it must be considered and taken necessary steps along with some very broad legal and social improvements. In addition, the Convention on Emergency Measures for the Prohibition and Extermination of Children's Work on the issue of child farm workers No. 182 has been envisioned by 2015 for all children, all non-18-year-olds, except for family jobs in agriculture, which is one of the worst forms of child labor. As a result of the common will of these four political parties, I now wish you success, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0102par0554	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Gaziantep MP Mehmet Candy... Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0103par0558	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a commitment to a motion to open a parliamentary investigation to determine the problems of seasonal agricultural workers in our country and the measures to address these problems. On this occasion, I salute you all. Mr. Mehmet is a member of my district and a dear friend of ours. You described it so beautifully that you mentioned that something happened with Generalage 2010/6 about the Ministry of Labor and Social Security's plans for action. So if this happened, I don't know why we're setting up this Commission. If it's all right, then we're wasting time here.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0104par0560	It's not all right.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0103par0561	But that's not the way it is. There are some serious problems. Making a law doesn't solve the case, we don't solve the problem by passing a substance here. If it had been solved by the law, we would have solved a lot of things that happened today, or it wouldn't have come up. But traffic accidents happen, people die in the mine, there's a lot of trouble in this country. And underneath all these problems are the laws of this House. So we're not auditing, we're doing something missing, and that's why these people are dying. For him, it's not just God's mercy. It's not because we've seen two or three ministers in the same frame lately that we know that at least 20 people have lost their lives. This shouldn't be happening. I believe that this country should now be a country in the European norms, which has absorbed democracy in its essence and really interprets the laws very well. Yes, we have 6 million 15,000 workers working in agriculture. Half of them are traveling farm workers. There are serious, callous problems such as the lack of social security, disorientation of social security, dismantling of working relationships, and lack of access to education and health care for a major part of society, lack of access to clean drinking water in poor conditions, poor nutrition, high business accident risk. In Turkey, the sufferings and problems of seasonal traveling farm workers have been brought to light by traffic and other business accidents, with many casualties. The collective death of these workers in their vehicles, without any precautions, has been a source of community conscience and has forced the government to take some necessary measures. In this scope -- this is the 2016 Prime Minister's Office -- which we just talked about -- has been published, and the Department of Labour and Social Security's Agricultural Action Plan is on the agenda. Are there any problems solved with these? No, but such measures remain on paper, and agricultural workers' problems have not been effectively resolved. Dear friends, with the start of the forced migration of seasonal traveling farm workers in April-December, we find that their problems have often been raised, as evidenced by the generalisation, regulations, plans, and projects that our workers have not made significant improvements in their work and social lives. For example, the measures on paper show that there are expressions of control over transportation between agricultural workers who are moving and giving places, but the accident in Isparta, which cost the lives of 18 agricultural workers, has shown all Turkey that these controls have not been done effectively. Again, legislation envisions the creation of decent settlements for workers to address poor housing problems, and the establishment of mobile convenience facilities in which they will address their needs, such as toilets, baths, and humane conditions. In practice, however, most of our districts and districts still create agricultural workers' shelters. These tents, such as plastic, cardboard, and fabric, are set up near water sources, are in very unhealthy conditions. In these inhuman shelters, agricultural workers and children are exposed to such dangers as mosquitos, scorpions and snakes stinging, infectious diseases, sunstroke. Although seasonal traveling farm workers may have been able to reach health care with a green card, they are also deprived of this partial health care service, which they receive in their migration period. Seasonal agricultural workers are constantly displaced for eight months of the year, so they are unable to attend school regularly. These children are also children whose education problems have not yet been resolved. Today, between 15 and 49 years of age, 90 percent of female agricultural workers have not finished elementary school, dear friends. On the other hand, in spite of all these challenges, their wages are extremely low, and they have to share their low wages with brokers named by different names, such as the ambassador, the uncle. In the agricultural work, the Agency for Tools arranged that they would ask only employers for the compensation of their services, but that was not the case in practice. See, the worker who spoke in the incident in Isparta, again, says that the uncle received $50 from the employer and was paid between $30 and $35 to the workers after he removed his own commission. So the middlemen or the uncles still share the wages of the workers. Again, even though the regulation requires that the brokers be registered, the majority of the brokers continue to operate recklessly, while the ones under record are not properly audited. This is the case against seasonal farm workers, and it's overwhelming their victims. The project for improving the working and social life of seasonal traveling farm workers affects only 47,000 people who have reached 3 million. Yes, dear friends, it's only six months ago that we gave all of Turkey to investigate the problems of seasonal traveling farm workers, before we faced the catastrophes and mass labor deaths, but we bring them up after the mass deaths, and then we start working in this Parliament. Dear friends, I'm afraid neither your people nor your citizens have trusted us, nor do they trust us because we can't get involved in time. Years ago, when I was at Çukurova University in 1988, we met a lot of farm workers. That's when farm workers came to that area the most. Today's problems, such as staying in tents, not reaching clean water, encountering very serious diseases, stinging snakes and scorpions, getting malaria from mosquitoes, and that's how these people came to the hospital. When we got to the scene, we saw together that these children who were exposed to agricultural medicine under the sun, where there was really, really no clean water, where there was no living water, where they had no education, and that these children had really serious problems, that women couldn't find the environment to take a bath, that there were problems in the drinking water. It's been years, you know, 30 years since I mentioned that, dear friends, we're going to the same places, we're going to the same places, we're going to the same problems, we're going to the same problems. People live in tents again, and people live in very poor health. He works in the sun, he's exposed to pesticides. Most of the farm workers' children who go there don't read. In today's study by TÜİK. About 92 percent of women between the ages of 15 and 49 have not even finished elementary school. So, how do we solve all this? Well, it's not just law enforcement. The establishment of the commission, of course, is very important, very important, and very serious debates need to be made. The resolution proposals must be brought to the House at once. I've worked for the Board of Investigations on Impacts and Covenants before. We've worked very hard, but not a single item has come to this House. It wasn't even read here. Then why did we set it up? Hopefully this Commission will succeed, and this Commission will answer the problems of the agricultural workers in Turkey. I'd like to thank you all for supporting this proposal, which we hope will end the scenes of the Wrath Grapes of Turkey, in order to determine the measures that must be taken by investigating the problems of seasonal traveling farm workers.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0105par0578	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır... [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0106par0582	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a pledge to those who have signed a motion on the Millitarian Movement Party motion, one of the joint motions for the establishment of a research commission in our parliament to investigate and determine the problems of seasonal traveling farm workers and the measures that need to be taken. I salute you all again. Dear lawmakers, as we discuss an important problem, a problem that burns our hearts, a problem that hurts us, our General Assembly is unfortunately red again, and our shame in our faces is probably reflected in the seats. For what it's worth, there's been a lot of good talk here, a lot of pain in numbers. I don't have much to say to them, and there's no point in repeating it, but it's better to repeat the result so we understand the importance of the matter, so we understand it well. Dear friends, see, this matter came to the attention of 18 of our 18 workers after the car crash in Isparta, where 17 of our people lost their lives, and even 18 of our people, who went to collect apples in Yalvaç district of Isparta, where most of our workers, women and children, were killed. But we don't live in the last -- Isparta Yalvach. When you do a quick study, you'll see that we face these kinds of accidents that turn out to be a mass slaughter with a lot of people who die every year, but there's nothing more to be said than a few words, or, you know, the General Assembly's attempt to set up a commission like that, over and over again. Dear friends, I repeat, I don't mean to accuse anyone, to enact, but it's a good thing to repeat the consequences that should embarrass us and hurt us. Look, 24 Adıyamans in a 14-man van on August 6th 2007... Mr. Mehmet Erdogan described the measures taken here by the government with such a beautiful face and a smile, but there were two fatal accidents in Adıyaman. One result, you can't pass by fate, but 24 Adıyamans have lost their lives by twice as many passengers in this accident. On the 18th of August of the same year -- one week later -- 18 people lose their lives by accident in Şanliurfa, another car carrying an agricultural worker. In 2008, the truck containing dozens of farm workers has been knocked down in Afyon, and nine people have lost their lives. 11 workers in Ankara Beypazarı have been killed in such an accident again. Again in Adıyaman, nine women farm workers died in 2013 in such a car accident. In Sakarya, again, eight female farm workers died in such an accident. And the last time, Isparta Yalvaç, an apple-picker in Akşehir district of Konya, Akşehir Province, was when women, children and needy people were in that vehicle, where people were in need of $35, unfortunately 18 people were killed and 27 people were injured in that accident. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, some measures are being taken, generalizations are being issued, and here we are making laws, but it seems there's been a mistake somewhere. These results, the cheapness of human life, the fact that there are so many deaths, indicate that there's been a mistake somewhere. Of course, the changing conditions of agriculture, mass production, the labor force that is needed, to meet them, is called capitalism, it's called greed for profit... the fact of these traveling farm workers is a reality of our country. Why is that? E, this is necessary, but we need to respect the efforts of young children, who are fit for the 21st century, who are fit for Turkey, who are fit for our state, our nation, who are forced to move from town to city as a traveling farm worker, to live in tents, to earn their livelihood, and we need to take the necessary precautions. It's impossible to say that adequate measures were taken, but if they were taken, they might not have happened. Look, I've read the generalization, which you're very proud of, and I've read it in detail, and I've read it in detail. It is said that these accidents occur because there are no sufficient inspections, because the old model, the older cars, the older cars, are carrying passengers over the line. Dear friends, it's not a big deal if you find out about the matter this way. You, the person driving that van, that employer, and that worker who had to get into that van with their lives, you can't account for their obligations, their obligations, their obligations, the lack of supervision, and you can't solve it. Economic policies in Turkey, practices in Turkey, have come to such a conclusion that even people, even I, asked Mr. Kalaycı, in some days 70 people get on the van of 24 people. Now, forcing a death like this is actually something to investigate. Yes, you've brought such a thing in general; there will be audits, penalties, but you don't question the economic policies that compel that person to those conditions. One of the things that strikes my attention again in another chapter: Sir, these traveling workers will be provided with accommodation, infrastructure by the private administration, and they will be taken from the worker for the price of services. What's the third article of the district, the third article, or what? Now, have a heart. I mean, what price is this worker going to use electricity to pay? Dear friends aim to save their wages and pay their expenses in months when they are not already working. You see, if you try to electrocute it, if you try to give it a price, if you give it water, if you offer it easier services, it doesn't take it, and so in fact, in the 21st century, the working conditions, the conditions are being prepared, and as a result, our people see it as a destiny in return. Dear friends, the problem of traveling farm workers -- I also want to address my HDP friends -- is not the issue of our Kurdish noble citizens alone. In the research proposal you've written, you're writing about the migration of Kurdish families from southeast to western provinces. The same thing is happening in Akşehir.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0107par0592	There are 13 motions, Mr. President, 13.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0106par0593	The same thing is happening in Mersin.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0107par0594	It's all there.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0106par0595	It's a common problem for all parts of Turkey and everyone; that's the problem with bread. It would be wrong if this matter was expressed in such a segregated language. I'm just saying that because I'm paying attention. But one thing is happening: the discrimination that traveling farm workers live in where they work, we have to follow that exclusion very carefully and take the necessary measures first. Traveling farm workers shouldn't cause this country to break up. Your bread... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... The people looking for their livelihood are the reality of this country and the common denominator. I believe that this commission will be useful, that these problems will be renegotiated, that I wish him well, that I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0108par0600	Thank you, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0109par0601	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0108par0602	Kars MP Yunus Kılıç. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0110par0605	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, of course, there are advantages to being the last speaker.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0111par0606	Why are you the last one? We'll talk, too.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0110par0607	Sir, we've heard the other speakers. In fact, everyone put the matter in the right way. It's a big problem. It's a fact of the country, it's also a fact of the world. There are about 1.1 billion people in the world in business, and about 450 million of them are agricultural workers, and more or less half of them are seasonal traveling or temporary farm workers, including developing countries. So farming is the hardest, hardest job in the world. It's a process that makes life so difficult if you add to the harsh conditions of traveling and temporaryness, that makes people's lives more difficult, forcing the elderly, the young, the child, the whole family to live a lifetime of suffering. Now, of course, when you look at the real scientific infrastructure, actually, in the 1960s, in the 1970s, in the 1970s, when you look at the Southeast Anatolian region that has the potential today, there's a migration to cities at the lowest levels, much lower than any other region. But, when you look at it after the 1970s, especially when partnership, rather than rent, begins to look for other ways after people's populations have increased, as well as the shrinking of agricultural land in their territory. I mean, it's a process that starts with employment problems in its own areas. It's a process so heavy that when you look at it the size of children, almost as all friends have expressed, 10 percent of the children in their area are subject to this seasonal migration of agricultural workers. At the same time, friends, the average amount of time they're away from schools is 70 days a year. Schools leave 38 days before opening, they can come to school after opening, and they have to leave school for 32 days before school closes. In three and a half months, nine months of training, children are away from school. When you're in the healthcare area, especially since there's not enough access to health in this area, people... especially women's pregnancy follow-up is half the average Turkey average. Friends, the rate of death in women's births is 10 times higher than the average in Turkey. The mortality rate in babies is five times higher than the average in Turkey. Fertility, despite all these difficulties, is twice the number of friends in Turkey because, in fact, they don't want to be followed, because they can't be informed. So, whatever size you look at, for example, the rate of transportation to clean drinking water, using water in these areas is not above 33 percent, no matter how much you are going to improve these areas. Feeding problems, housing problems... we're talking about a process where you're alone with nature. Guys, this is a fact of Turkey. It's been there before, and it's been going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and But we have to remember that there's a very troubled area that needs to be resolved. We must have remembered that with the common opinion of all parties, we would like to have such a research commission set up. Yeah, well, there's appreciation, criticism, and there's only one that needs to be perfectly balanced. Friends have highlighted the problem, they've explained the problem, but after the AK PARTY administrations, it's important to show the importance of the hand that's been thrown into this area. For the first time, it's not a process that happened during the EC PARTY period, but we're going through important processes that are very early on, which are recognized by the AK PARTI governments, which have been made, have been published, have been published, have been set up, and have been followed. Of course, since the problem is not today's problem, the solution is not in one day, three days, five days. We need to maintain our determination and our faith in the importance of this problem, and we need to put the failing parts of it in place and continue our efforts to take the necessary measures and measures; that's what's important. That's what we're trying to do right now. We say yes, it's been published, it's been planned, it's been tented. I'll give you one example. Did you ever do it? You said. The city of seasonal agricultural workers, for example, was established in the Ahlat (Athlat) of Bitlis. Very modern areas. If we can spread this across the community with this 38, we'll have a significant distance. You can't just ignore them, guys. These are important developments in this area in Turkey. There's nothing missing? It's too much. So, as the government's wing, we say, yes, let's put together the problems of their implementation in transparency, where no one can hide anything from anyone, let's investigate, let's find out. Let's all come together again, consider the consequences of these things here, and let's all work together to make our debt to our people in this troubled area, to make their lives easier for them, to offer them their sustainable lives, and to give them enough of their rights in the Bill of Rights, to give them the rights that we need to give them, as the government side, and as the opposition side of Parliament to provide them with them. That is what you and we have in common today. We believe, my friends, that with the establishment of this research commission, we must now believe that we will not be faced with the problems that have arisen, especially with the implementation of the published Prime Ministerial General, and with the necessary new legislation, with the development of human resources, with the development of financial resources. So what have you done so far? Yes, friends, a process of human beings, not a day's work, not a day's work, but close to 3 million people. Look, 3 million people move every year, and at the same time, they don't move once a year. Friends, many times in an employment season, in a period of production, a number of places are actually creating life that isn't temporary at all. For six months, eight months, these families are completely away from their homes, with their children, with their elders, with their patients. It's about rehabilitation, about improving living spaces, and it's about their wages, about health care, about housing, protection, and security services, which need to be taken by increasing very important measures. And their income is very low. Look, women in Turkey, women in these seasonal jobs, average 36 lira a day, men's 48 liras a day. Imagine if they worked for six months, friends, imagine two people working in a house, so when you put another 36 into 48, 70-80 lira into the family's pouch in one day. Assuming they get it for six months, friends, the sum of the money they spend on average one day in the remaining six months is $40. In fact, it's an area of such troubled economic conditions. Yes, is it a problem of our country? He believes that the problem and the effort to solve this problem, which has been developed with the EC PARTI governments, along with your contribution to the research commission, will be established, and will make significant assessments to all of you, if there is a lack of legislation, if there is one, at the point of solving human resources and financial shortcomings, that we will make significant contributions to the sustainable life of seasonal farm workers, just as we all believe and thank you already for your support.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0112par0618	Thank you, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0113par0619	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0112par0620	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0113par0621	I just wanted a word, but I don't think it's heard. Mr. Mehmet Shandır has implied that our party's proposals have been made, and therefore there has been discrimination, so if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a correction.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0112par0623	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0113par0626	Thank you. Mr. President, I'm here to make a correction. Mr. Shandir had a very productive and beautiful speech, but at the end of his speech, he said that we discriminated because the word "Kurdish" was mentioned in our research proposal. First of all, I'd like to point out that we've submitted 13 research proposals on the subject, and there is no ethnic discrimination involved in any of these 13 research proposals. In terms of the Democratic Party of Peoples, there is no distinction between the workers in Akşehir, Jahanbeyli, Edirne, Diyarbakır. In all our proposals, we've tried to bring up a framework and a perspective on the solution to these problems through labor exploitation. If you're satisfied, we also have research proposals in which there is no word of Kurt. But here's the thing: there's a Kurdish reality in this country. There is a Kurdish reality where 4,000 villages have been burned, 4 million people have been forced to emigrate, exiled, their means of livelihoods have been taken from them, so they have to migrate to the metropole, and they have to work unsecuredly, especially seasonal farming, which most of them have been exposed to ethnic discrimination, particularly where governors have been going for a lot of time. So, when we present this discrimination and this reality within our proposals, we consider it a misfortune to consider it discrimination. I don't mean to say it, but to say that we think of it as discrimination, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit03spe0114par0629	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. This concludes the talks on parliamentary research motions. I will now submit to your votes on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation: those who have agreed to open a parliamentary investigation... those who have refused to accept it... have been accepted. Now, I submit to your votes that the commission to investigate Congress will be formed from 17 members: those who agree... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the term of the commission is three months to begin with the date of the election of president, vice president, spokesman and clerk: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the commission can work outside Ankara if necessary: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, I'm gonna take a 45-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0114par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 12th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will continue our talks with Kars MP Yunus Kılıç and Amassian MP Avni Erdemir and 79 MPs who were ranked in the 3rd ranking position of President of the Health Institutes of Turkey; and with the establishment of the President of the Health Institutes of Turkey; and with the amendments to Decisions in Laws and Health, Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Report. The commission and the government are in place. In the 115th Union, dated 10/07/2014, it remained in talks on the entire draft bill, which was considered the main law according to Article 91. Members of the Parliament, there is a motion in accordance with Article 70 of the Civil Charter, which states that talks on all 615 rows shall be discussed in closed session. I'm reading the motion for closed session: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that all talks on the Law Offer 615 be held according to Article 70 of the Civil Code. Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0115par0023	I withdrew it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0114par0024	Did you withdraw it, sir? We've had the motion read, but the motion has been withdrawn. We'll continue our negotiations now. They're demanding word on behalf of the groups. The first word belongs to Mersin MP Ali Öz. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0116par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the overall proposal for amendments to certain Law and Law provisions, with the establishment of the chair of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615. I hereby salute your high council. In fact, I'd like to start by saying that I don't find such an offer in the form of a subcommittee in the Commission, which you've discussed for a long time, which you've discussed with the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a bag bill, which has only entered into the interest of other ministries outside the health institute, and that such an offer should be discussed in other Tali commissions, without being held in the form of making it a law. When we look at the main theme of the proposal, the reason for the establishment of the chairmanship of Turkish health institutes offered to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, I would like to say that we have some concerns at the point of establishing legal and administrative and financial features that are not entirely wrong, that will reveal some problems in its aim, but in implementation, or that we will draw a new institution from a point where we will be able to strengthen the structures that exist today in Turkey. The proposal is to increase and maintain Turkey's competitiveness in the field of health science and technology to serve the country and humanity, to meet our country's need for advanced technology and innovation, to ensure the development of new products and the development of existing products, to provide scientific environment for researchers, to co-operate with public law and private legal persons, to co-ordinate, to co-ordinate these research, to contribute to the R&Ds, to improve the development of health and technology cultures, to provide access to healthcare, to the development of healthcare services, to ensure the establishment of healthcare services, and the establishment of Turkish institutions, and to establish scientific research, and to co-ordinating, to co-ordinate these research. While the purpose is set up for such purposes, when we look at its structure, the chairmanship of the Turkish health institute is far from scientific, commercial and political. The opening of new medical schools, the Ministry of Health medical school... so we feel there is no need for a health science faculty to be opened within this law... in the Commission talks and in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... based on the fact that we have a severe objection from the beginning... and that we are forced to accept and understand the reason for it. In Turkey, we also wonder who would benefit from creating a new institution instead of supporting the same purpose institutions, when there are infrastructure and academic staffs in Turkey, which are defined only within buildings, in the sign, as "universite." When we compare international standards with Turkey, everyone should know that in Turkey, especially after 2002, your habit of building a university is not complete, so compared to European countries, we seem to be a lot ahead of them in terms of quality, even though we seem to be a lot ahead of them. Britain has 32 medical schools with 64 million people, Germany has 36 medical schools with 81 million people, France has 47 medical schools with 63 million people, Greece has seven medical schools with 11 million people. Compared to the situation in Turkey, the number of medical schools in Turkey has recently increased, especially in an avalanche, reaching 86. We really believe that we should all see and agree that we are a little bit away from the reality of our country, away from the problems of our country, as we are moving quickly towards the opening point of a health institute, and also a university that belongs to the Ministry of Health. Turkey and the European Union have a total of 100,000 physicians compared to the European Union's 346 average, and Turkey has 171. It is true that there is a lack in the number of doctors, physicians, and assistant medical staff in Turkey -- which the ministry has always said -- that we agree with their views -- but we can't go beyond just increasing the number of schools that we've opened if we can't quickly open universities and ensure that we can trust the health of the people at these universities. Of course, one of the main features that this law has brought is that the purpose of these institutions -- as if only for that purpose -- was intended to open the cancer institute in Turkey and in the world, along with such an institution -- in order to give authority to the Council of Ministers, as well as to open six basic institutions. I really think that if the institutions in Turkey, the institutes, the institutes that depend on the faculty, today, if these institutions were supported enough, opening a new institute in Turkey would not mean much. Again, in this law, by interfering with the fiscal and administrative structure of the foundation universities, the political power, which ignores the services of the foundation universities for years of science and education, offers a new set of substances that can control them as well. The establishment of a massive cancer institute, leading to the causes of cancer death, while the Ministry of Health is head of the department, there's the idea of winning from here to different areas, which is to further move up an institute like this. Instead of collaborating with institutions based in universities, we believe that the aim of building new institutions may also be hidden goals underlying them. Meanwhile, when Turkey has an institution called TÜBITAK, the transfer of human and financial resources to the Ministry rather than TÜBİTAK brings to mind very different questions. While there is an institution to develop and evaluate projects in the country, we see that projects are intended for economic gains in order to order them. To meet the need for advanced technology and innovation. The establishment of health care TÜBİTAK is prepared as a proper application, which is an AKP classic and one of your major skills that you often apply. The transfer of funds to non-employment areas is one of the key elements within this law. The Ministry of Health's opening to new fields and entering into competition with other institutions outside of its primary mandates is essentially a breach of its duties. Whereas the Ministry of Health's main duties are to protect public health, to provide preventive health care and to treat it when necessary, to ensure coordination, control and organisation across the country, we see that it has become practically commercialized by a structure that is subject to this special law, autonomous and capable of starting a company. Building a company is for profit, or it's not very likely to be done for scientific development. Although the head of the health institute -- we also mentioned this in the commissions -- was suggested to be based on Istanbul's financial centre, which is the institution's main institution, which is the head of the institution, the Ministry, the Undersecretary or its employees, who will be part of the institution -- I think there must be a reasonable reason for understanding that a structure that can establish an institute in all health care areas while its institutions are in Ankara is in Istanbul. In universities, institutions deal with many bureaucratic obstacles, while the chairmanship of Turkey's health institute, which is specifically intended to be established, is unacceptable. While college institutes suffer from resource shortages, your institutions will have public economic freedom. That understanding will further increase the difficulties of our universities in institutions. The head of the health institute will apply for commercial activities such as techno parks, technology centers, incubation centers, technology transfers. However, the lack of support of these centres in universities will deepen the shortage of resources against universities at the point of research and information production. There is a claim that the structure of TUSEB is an autonomous structure, the structure of the Turkish health institute. However, the fact that it is determined by political will that more than half of those who have accession at the governing point of the board, or by two other members elected by the Minister and the Minister -- two institute heads -- and a president elected by the Minister -- is the greatest proof that autonomy cannot be mentioned within the institution. Even though we have stated during our talks that it would be more meaningful to include the office representatives in the High Council of Counsellors, to put weights on the Scientific Council, unfortunately, our offer was not accepted. We strongly oppose the establishment of TUSEB, and we view it as criticism. It's not acceptable for corporateization to stand together with science in a field where so much trade is involved, unfortunately. There will be a sense of competition that is not equal to the private sector and especially universities. Again, in this law proposal, students who attend a second level of higher education pay their contribution and teaching fees by 50 per cent. This, in fact, contradicts the removal of student fees that our former Prime Minister, Mr. President, has announced and declared as good news by our government. The fact that the second graduate students receive a 50 percent increase rate means that success is punishable, which is not acceptable. With dozens of problems and quality problems in Turkey's medical schools, I think it would be better for us to think more about them, first of all, with all the opposition to correct their shortcomings, infrastructure problems, financial status. In Turkey, the wrong policies in the attempt to close the doctor's deficit have, unfortunately, reached the point where our citizens will be able to pay heavy bills. While university professors and health workers in general have irreparable rights, I'd like to express our concern now from the public's podium, with other status -- you may find it unfair -- here too -- that there's an advocacy, a closeness here, and that those who are close to political power will find a place in the new staffs. Most of the commitments made to health workers have not been fulfilled. So there have been some attempts to improve them, but the simplest part is to the health workers, whom we refer to as every Medical Day. In fact, the rights should be fulfilled legally. I would like to share with you that we can't go one step further as this Parliament, even at the point of giving them their share of weariness. The opening of the Health Ministry, especially the Health Ministry, will bring challenges, with universities facing the Ministry of Health, and there will be no winners, but losing universities, Turkish education and citizens. Again, within the law, the cancellation of assistant chiefs in education and research hospitals and the difficulties of those appointed as instructors have been completely ignored, and no suggestion has been made at the point of resolving their problems. Again, acting midwife and nurse employment in the matter of the law is a violation of rights. And I think it would be more appropriate for them to be evaluated by standard staffs that are well-known to everyone. Again, it's a huge injustice to add an additional clause to the State Department of National Education Agency and its duties, which we don't really want to have to have, which should be discussed in its own commission, but because we've become very classically capable of making bags of legislation. What you really want to do here is go behind the back of the law. You're pressing a clause here to address the wrongs you've done at the appointment point, and you're saying, "Let's do a written test when we're going to determine who's going to be called up in the line of duty, but at the point where we're going to get one of these, you're going to be treated in every field, for different reasons, and then you're going to have trouble explaining what you're going to do. Look, it has never helped anyone, especially this country, no matter what kind of power -- past and present -- to make this oral test essential, beyond politicalisation, the establishment of staff within the state. It's just a fact that we're all well-known to know that there's a certain political adult that's going to increase its power, that things are going to move to an unresolved point. You want to do it again with this clause in the appointment of principals, especially at the point of the appointment of school principals in National Education, even though the State's decision has been cancelled because of your continuing appointment. We can't possibly accept that. In particular, it is not acceptable for such a substance to be placed within such a proposal in an environment in which a scientific issue is discussed, especially in order to establish, at least in Turkey, the head of an institute, to do new studies in some areas that are missing in Turkey, to contribute to science. In summation, this law includes changes that are closely related to all university components, a series of research institutes in the strictty of the government. It also authorises the Council of Ministers to establish other institutions. As far as goals are concerned, science is where serious marketing in the field of research is envisioned, where universities face a deepening financial crisis, and research patented product, which meets expectations, wants to be punished for failing to produce profits. Turkey's health sciences university, which is run by the trustees' delegation, is envisioned. The president of this university will be the Minister of Health. Recognising a minister as the university's top official is a major intervention in preventing university autonomy. Again, the professorship examinations are taken from the Inter-United Assembly by this law, and handed over to the WHO. The lack of adequate research and study is being changed to allow the higher education board, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, to conduct research and study expeditions with permission from university administrators, allowing them to do research in key areas that determine the opinion of science, industry and technology. First, the targeted change completely eliminates the possibility of an academic taking a field trip abroad and abroad. Second, the condition that academic research can be done in the primary areas set by the Ministry -- this is a very important thing -- is not acceptable because the academic field is restrictive. I can only investigate if the university is going to make money. It can't limit itself to its understanding. The university, by name and meaning, is beyond limits, and can maintain an activity in harmony with society and nature from this point of view. The goal is to keep taking steps by making laws to narrow down the university area and its meaning, to put pressure on the university. Science can't just be defined by market conditions and profit motive; science should be able to create information for the benefit of the community and develop independent thinkers by being independent, liberal and critical. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is clear that these attacks have been halted by more organized and academic leaders, and that they require a nationwide movement that includes all of them, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0117par0070	Thank you, Mr. Oz. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Bingöl MP İdris Baluken. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0118par0074	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on behalf of the establishment of the chair of the Turkish Health Institutes 615 and the drafting of the Law and Law Act. I salute you all. Before we express our thoughts about this bill, we would like to share here a law-making technique that reverses the understanding of legislation by the AKP's rule, making it meaningless to categorization of laws, and the sadness and concern that we have had for bringing this Assembly back to its agenda. We've repeatedly expressed on this parliamentary platform that the AKP government should abandon the approaches that are called the law, which in fact no social, political, economic problem has been fully addressed and have not developed a solution proposal, but unfortunately you continue to maintain your habit today. In particular, I'm saying that you're signing a new bill that will actually make problems bigger than the two most basic public services bills, such as national education and health, which will solve all problems. With this amendment, the proposal is intended to establish the chairmanship of a Turkish Institute for Health Sciences in the Ministry of Health. Again, medical schools are to be established at a medical science university, which is almost a top-of-the-line level. And there's an arrangement for foundation universities that will allow medical schools at foundation universities to be especially open to the intervention of political will. We'll try to explain from here why it shouldn't be, along with the constraints of all these practices. However, you've always done a trick here in this bill. You've formulated this law through institutions that do research on cancer and innovations, and that's how you present it to the community, to the Parliament, through the fight against cancer. We'll try to explain as much as possible how wrong that is. First of all, we are prepared to offer support for all studies related to cancer in Turkey. The scientific consideration of these is our greatest desire for cancer to be put on a line of struggle through a truly organised organizational organization at the level of cities. Because almost every year, according to the Health Department's data, nearly 140,000 people die of cancer. Again, over 150,000 people get the diagnosis of new cancer every year. While the number of cancer patients has reached almost 1.5 million, I would like to say that we expect you to spend a shift in this Parliament with a strong cancer-fighting programme, while the annual cost of cancer to Turkey is around 2.5 billion dollars a year, you should not discuss the issue here with such a palliative set of billing laws. Dear lawmakers, first of all, what is our status in the fight against cancer? I want to open this up a little bit over the simplest, most understandable parameters. Now, in order to have an effective cancer struggle, we think about the level of public awareness, increase the number of specialists, or increase the number of scientists and scientists involved in this issue, transfer resources here, and first of all, implementing certain regulations that prevent cancer from happening, the AKP's health policies should be on the table first. See, in terms of the number of specialists or the number of trained scientists, the number of oncologists and hematologists currently suffer from problems in Turkey is the number of experts. In many areas, even in regional hospitals, there are serious problems with finding expert hematologists or oncologists. Even in this regard, the Ministry of Health has not been in the way of cancer patients, unfortunately, with a comprehensive project that has taken oncologists and hematologists in its own way and encouraged them to become oncologists and hematologists. Again, especially in this regard, I'm sure you all have very serious problems with access to drugs, with every congressman every week. Many cancer patients who are forced to die in Turkey today have trouble accessing drugs that are forced to fight for their lives. Cancer patients in Turkey can't reach most of the drugs, unfortunately. So, in some ways, the cancer patient struggles with death, and in some ways, he has to go through the difficult struggle to get to the drugs. Many of these should be used, even from abroad, or if they are provided, are facing serious problems regarding high contributions to the ministry's approval, with regard to their waiting period. We know there's almost a black market situation in most cancer drugs. ▪ The black market means that it becomes a bargaining centre. So, we're dealing with practices that we can call the black market bargaining centre during the period of your government on the most basic drugs related to human health. We didn't witness that you brought an effective struggle, a solution to these problems, to the agenda of this House until today. Today's situation for cancer patients is that if you have money, you can provide medicine, you can treat it as much as your money. The understanding is that in a reality where the vast majority of this country is poor, unfortunately, it is the most obvious that there are major problems on the agenda. So we're dealing with an offer from a government far from the practice that will cure cancer -- as I say -- on the most fundamental issues -- even in the number of oncologists. Look, in terms of social awareness, we're in the same situation. Today, we do not see a position of the Ministry of Health or health policy that determines any initiative in the struggle for social awareness to effectively treat cancer. If you build HES dams, thermal plants, nuclear plants all over the country, there's no way that cancer cases don't explode. You don't have to be a paramedic to know that. Any citizen who's ever been through an ordinary education knows that. If you build thermal plants all over the country today, if you prepare nuclear power plants, the air that comes out of those chimneys, the water that comes out of those plants that polluting wastewaters, of course, increases the prevalence, the insulin of cancer in a country, which is not unknown. There's no need to go away for that. Look, in the village of Soma Yırca, 6,000 olive trees were recently slaughtered in one night to build a thermal plant. We haven't heard a word about this from the health minister of this country. The political dimension, social dimension, social dimension may have been discussed, but we think this country's Minister of Health should have a few sentences to say about the dilemma between olive trees and thermal power plants. You can adapt it to every aspect of life. We think that until high-voltage HES dams are released, until the carcinogen cell towers multiply like mushrooms, there should be a couple of words for the health-care politicians of this country, until they use pepper gas that kills people in every social demonstration. So, when that's your practice, we want to express from here an arrangement that you've brought about cancer as a cover for the negatives that you've brought here. Dear lawmakers, we would like to say that we also have a very serious view here of the concern of opening centralisation, staffing and ranta in all law drafts of the AKP's general law on the establishment of the Turkish health institutes and the establishment of the Institute for Health Sciences, which is mentioned in this bill in particular. You've repeatedly said that you're against the Constitution of September 12th and the institutions of September 12th, but the application you've brought in here of TUSEB is kind of like a super-SEC application, and unfortunately, it's also bringing in an application to search the Kenan Universe. Here are some general statements based on the fact that TUSEB is an autonomous institution, but when we read the sentences just below it, when we read the reason, we don't really understand what you understand about this autonomy. Here, bringing the Minister of Health to the chairmanship of the board of directors of the TUSEB is a serious deficiencie in your definition of autonomy if you're describing an autonomy by determining most of the members of the board by political will. You, on the contrary, are bringing in a new application based on more centralization than autonomy, based on more staffing. The chairman of the board can't be as natural as waiting for decisions to come in favor of power in a mechanism where the majority of board members are determined by political will, which is completely contrary to the spirit of scientific autonomy we're talking about. We especially want to say that with this TUSEB, you have signed an application to redefine the tasks and functions of the higher education institutions and almost all institutions within them. Scientific and administrative autonomy is just a matter that you state. The concept of autonomy in this bill has no validity, on the contrary, you're bringing to our attention a new arrangement that increases the initiative of government and capital in the field of health. And especially when the content of the law is examined, there are also some very poor arrangements. The AKP has always criticised an application similar to the OYAK (OYAK) of previous authorities, which is almost a healthcare area, which you bring to the agenda of Parliament with this legislation, because we need to express from this point on the fact that companies can be established within TSEB and that these companies will be exempted from taxes. In the particular part of the bill concerning this company, when we are mentioned as a physician, we do not think of anything about health. In one way, we think you're showing that you're now fully commercializing the healthcare area, that you're backing up your business understanding, that you're also bringing a new practice into social and economic life, that you're doing a new intervention, that you're doing a new intervention, that you're doing wrong. Dear lawmakers, we would like to stress from here that we also consider the situation in closing down these financial debt-loaded foundations, especially in the bill, as a very poor arrangement. There's an arrangement here for the closure of the foundation universities in the intervention of political will, and that's where we say it's against the Constitution. In particular, the Articles 130 and 131 of the Constitution are clear. You're clearly bringing an unconstitutional arrangement into this Parliament's agenda. Again, we would like to express from this point on the fact that the medical school, especially in this bill, will be strengthened by the commitment of all education and research hospitals in Turkey, and that your proposed argument is not true, that you will actually deepen the existing problems in medical schools, that you will negatively affect many medical studies, and that you will create a new cartel of your own. Again, as in the previous institution, we consider it a quest for the trustees of the university, which is thought to be established here, to have a member who will be elected by the health minister, secretary of the ministry, and minister of the ministry, and we also consider it to be a means of opening the way for the recruitment of an academic staff. Dear lawmakers, we see in this proposal again that the national education dimension is carried in some way, especially in the same way, as we have mentioned about this health. The regulation on national education also includes many practices that are contrary to the Constitution. In particular, it is a violation of our view of the right to education when higher education students are bound to a maximum term, and we would like to say that you need to review this violation of the right to education for all whom the Constitution guarantees. Again, we feel that the contradiction of a government, which boasts that it has been transferred to free education, especially in the second high school, has taken away its contributions in the arrangement for increasing contributions by 50 per cent. We also consider it unfortunate that there are regulations in this law proposal, based on a number of ways of interviewing, which we just discussed in health rather than merit in the application of the field of education. In general, what you've done in both education and health, we'd like to say here that what you've done so far, is more private sector, private capital, creating private capital, providing your own staffing, and defining a new Rantfield. In this respect, we're against this offer you've made, we'll vote against it. What you need to do is to withdraw this proposal, not to apply any of the regulations that remind you of the 12th of September institutions; on the contrary, to remove these September 12th institutions, especially the CEC, to give up the understanding of privatisation and cartel creation in health, to provide both opportunity and resources that will pave the way for scientific, autonomous universities. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0119par0100	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mersin MP Aytuğ Atı on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0120par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes, which is currently in session, and on behalf of the entire Republican People's Party Group, to make changes to certain Laws and Legislatures. I salute all lawmakers who have not driven the country into chaos in order to protect their own allies. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to sum up what this bill brings first in matter. First: the Ministry of Health is establishing the chairmanship of Turkish health institutes, which is TUSEB. So, the Ministry of Health has made the first step, the second step service so perfect that it's all over, and now it's going up the ladder, so it's trying to build an institute. That's not enough for our Ministry of Health, is it? It won't. He's coming back, and the institute says what it is, and the institute is not enough for me, and he's starting a health sciences university with serious sanctions on all universities, with serious money, but also with the Ministry of Health. I mean, you're hearing me right, yes, I know you're surprised, but I'm about to tell you that the Health Department itself has failed to grant the constitutional duty of primary health care, which is our constitutional right as citizens. It's like he's trying to get into an academic study that's none of his business, something that the public doesn't expect him to do. And while we've already touched universities, let's look at the national education of the country, and look at the bag of laws that we're used to, and it's saying we should bag them, it's interfering with the financial and administrative structure of the foundation universities, and it connects them to itself at some point, and the Ministry of National Education is bringing in some very important arrangements in the Agency Law, and it's also very important to protect its supporters. So, basically, the Department of Health is out of their jurisdiction by law. He's exploiting the true needs of the people. What's he exploiting you for? It's more serious: let's figure out a point, and we'll say, what if there's a ministry, education hospitals, research hospitals, come on, you might think he wants to get the academic staff together a little bit, but his real goal is to disband the authority, the position; that's the point. The Ministry of Health has given up its work and has been busy handing out office, position, and council to its own followers, which hurts me deeply as a physician, as a health worker. How's he gonna hand out a staff to his followers? Instead of going through a very long journey of jet professors, he's taking on the task of building a university directly, and that's how he's starting to distribute the horizons, and he's doing all this with a law. I'm speaking from here to Mr. Minister: Mr. Secretary, you can vouch for or sign a lot of the articles in this bill; it's a savings of management, the people have chosen us, we're doing this, we're going to answer to the public, just like the other ministers said. However, I would like to warn you that the university you are going to try to build is absolutely unconstitutional. In the state of the Republic of Turkey, universities are either a university of the foundation or a university of the state. If they're going to start a foundation college, someone will get up, they'll set up with the board of trustees; their law is clear. If the government's going to start a university, it's going to build it through the SEC. Now, you're getting up, you're trying to bring in a mixed system, you're trying to start a college with a government-issued board of trustees. That won't happen, Mr. Secretary. It'll come back from the Constitutional Court anyway. Come on, let's not keep the people busy and the High Council busy. Take this off, let's talk about the rest. Now let's look at TUSEB. WHAT do you do with TUSEB, or health institutes? You're helping with the cancer. Well, good. You already have a cancer institute, so I don't know why you're gonna do it again. Biotechnology, look, guys, he's doing biotechnology, our Ministry of Health, so it sounds so good, it sounds like applause. So the mother-baby deaths will rise, and this year, 600 babies will die. My Ministry will develop biotech instead of preventing those babies from dying. Yeah, this country has the Ministry of Science, this country has universities, this country has academies. They will produce, they will serve you, Mr. Secretary. You will take their services and use them to the benefit of our people, and that is your duty. You can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't produce science and use it to benefit the public. You're building a mother, a child, a teen health institute. Yeah, well, instead of setting this up, you're aware that this is the year that the mother's death has increased, because according to the figures published by your general manager, both mother's death and baby's deaths have increased for the first time in 40 years. I've said it over and over again. In one year, because of your practices, 600 babies began to die extra. What's going to happen this year? We don't know that yet. Now, I'm going to start a cancer institute. You're going to leave and you're not informing the MPs right here. Dear friends, look, you may be AKP MP, but the government is deceiving you, there's a cancer institute. Instead of building a cancer institute, which is the most important cause of death in the world, he's trying to build an institute using cancer, and he wants to use it in different ways. You shouldn't allow it either. You guys have my fellow physicians in you, the paramedics. I know you've been where I've been. Come out and say: "We ask our Ministry of Health for first-level public health jobs and procedures." Don't try to build an institution by exploiting cancer, don't use money like that. When you look into it, the cancer institute is built, it's already there. The other institutes say I'll start in three years. Then why did you bring this law? Bring it in three years, we'll get it out, but I'll tell you the purpose of bringing in this law in a moment. Look, there's no college in the name of the law, there's an institute. Because our people know that starting a university is not the Ministry of Health's job, it's not the Ministry of Justice's job, it's not the Ministry of National Education's. You guys have to use the information that the academys produce, and according to it, you have to protect the health of our people. That's not what I'm saying, it's the Constitution. But what are you doing? Look, you're saying, "I'm going to meet the need for advanced technology and innovation as the Ministry of Health." You save my babies, you save my mothers, the country has measles, polio. You say, as the Ministry of Health instead of dealing with this, "No, I will meet the country's need for advanced technology and innovation." You have no right to humiliate me in the international arena, Mr. Secretary, they will laugh at us, I swear. Show me one example of the health ministry in the world, so that it's on its way to produce advanced technology and innovation. You won't find it at all. You have no right to do such a thing and spend our money here. Because you're part of the process, and you should never do that. Well, let's say we're an advanced country and you say, "Sister, it's over, I've done everything." I see we're last in line for OECD indicators, health indicators. Now we say: Take Turkey, which is last in line, upstairs. The method of this is not innovation. With your transformation in health, the most demand for lawmakers to come to all of us after the job request is health demand. Look, one of you tell me that no one is coming to me for health reasons. For God's sake, let a deputy say that everything is in order. Nobody tells us anything about health. We've changed so much. I get twenty and thirty phone calls every day. Here, sir, I can't pay. I can't operate, etc. Our citizens are now waiting in line for months to have surgery. Even in college hospitals, even if he pays for it -- in your way -- there's still months of waiting, and we're trying to cut back on it by getting in the way. Especially because your SUT apps -- along with the Minister of Labor -- have all the specialized surgeries stopped, because you're not paying for any of the appliances used to perform that particular surgery. Look, you're bragging, you're saying that our citizens get to the doctor more easily. The calculations say that our citizens get to the doctor 8.2 times a year. 72 million people go to the doctor 8.2 times a year, and they can't get any better. The doctor is traveling, and your system is causing him no improvement. And every time he goes, he pays a contribution in exactly 11 places, Mr. Secretary. Come pick this up. What do you have to do with innovation, advanced technology, nanotechnology, producing this? Of course you have work to do. Use it. I'm the one who makes them, and my scientist is the one who makes them. But with these apps, you're trying to destroy universities and put the Ministry of Health first. That's not the right approach. You have to destroy measles, polio. Deal with these. Now, in Article 3 you say: "I will build TÜSEB in Istanbul." Why? All Ministry and its subsidiaries, everything is in Ankara, but -- as the Commission says -- sir, he's a little bit closer to the Istanbul business world. What do you mean, you don't get it? Why are you making this TUSEB based in Istanbul? Is Istanbul the center of science? There's no way we're gonna accept that. Here you market health again in Istanbul, taking it again, making it profitable. Look, I'm going to show you a picture of shame, Mr. Secretary, of shame. As the Ministry of Health, you've prepared a brochure about nutrition, which is very good, it says: "Who should we believe, and how should we feed? " You wrote about how to feed people -- especially so there's no publicity -- so I don't have to have that shame -- but under the Ministry of Health logo, you say, "Eat pasta." There's an ad for AKP's candidate under it. Is that possible, Mr. Secretary? Has my health department gone down enough to do a pasta commercial? How did you put us through this? Look, it's a 2nd ad, you say: the Caesarean is not a birth, it's an operation. Don't be a C-section. I've lived my life to protect people from the C-section. Yeah, it's a good thing, do it. But what is this ad doing behind it? Take your child's fire from here and measure it from here. So what do you do? You've marketed so much health, you've made so much profit in health, and then you wake up and say, "I'm going to make advanced technology." Who's going to believe you? How are we supposed to know that a department of health dealing with pasta is going to be dealing with advanced technology? How are we supposed to believe that? No one has the right to do this to us in any way. I'm telling you, the people who did this must be punished immediately, I warn you, I complain to you, Mr. Secretary, please do as soon as possible. And come, I must build TUSEB. If you must, I must. If you say so, set up your headquarters in Ankara. And then you get up, and you say, "Sir, I'm going to set up a high advisory board." I ask you now: You're building an institute, you're building health institutes, you're building high councils, what do you think? Great teachers, doctors, professors, I don't know, paramedics. Not at all. You've brought in a staff of Dar, elitist, undersecretary, undersecretary of the undersecretary, you're making a high council of advisors. I mean, which one of these is scientific? We've been trying to put a little bit of room reps, a little bit of, you know, scientists on the Commission. It's never enough. There's no higher council of advisors who raise their hand by order in any way, no way at all. Look, it's clear how you're dealing with this. Again, in Article 3 you say that TUSEB is subject to special laws. I mean, there's a lot of work to be done, but you're gonna be subject to private law, private law. Special budget, scientific, and administrative autonomy. So the entire board is under political will, with the chairman of the board, the Minister of Health, the Undersecretary of Health, the people the President will appoint, all of this... Sir, we're autonomous! Where's autonomy? At least open a dictionary of the Turkish Language Foundation, where you can read about what is a dissolution, Mr. Secretary, and you'll understand that this is not an autonomous system, it's not just a private budget, it's a government-sponsored system that gives money to scientists. Look, you're saying that this TUSEB is starting a company abroad in the country. Why would people study science in the company? A man's head doesn't work three ways, Mr. Secretary. When a man's mind works on business, I respect it, my marrow is a merchant. When a man's mind works on science, I respect him, he's a scientist. When a person's mind is working both science and commerce and politics and something else...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0121par0127	He's from the AKP!
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0120par0128	...it's called a charlatan, and it's nothing else. So please don't let the charlatans in here and clean up our Ministry of Health for this profit. Look, it's come to a point where our Ministry of Health, when you do this, your lower levels want to make more profit. Ah, another document, coming from AFAD, AFAD, AFAD, the President of Afet and Emergency. So the disasters are very important, the AFAD is very important, we see them everywhere. He's sending an article, saying to the family physicians: "Make sure you register the Syrians who came to you and let us know." Why? Because we'll get money from the government head of heads here. Here's the sign. I'll tell you the date: October 22, 2014. So the more you do, the more you do, the more your lower levels advertise pasta, the more your lower levels try to raise money through the Syrians on their own budget. Now, you shouldn't be handling our health like this. I'm a physician trying to be a scientist, that's not how our minds work, Mr. Secretary. Our mind works in scientific ways and in service, and that's how it understands. But of course, now that we're parliamentarians, I'm trying to read and learn. In the 17th article, you say: "I have set up a company, but this company will not pay taxes." So you're gonna make a profit, you're gonna do science, you're gonna sell science, and you're not gonna pay taxes. On the other hand, any university, any hospital, will pay taxes on all the work they do, and you won't pay for it. My dear friends, look at TUSEB, which is envisioned for this establishment, and it's doing one other thing: In this TUSEB, a health care institute is building a quality and accretion institute. You know what? It's for self-control. So the Ministry says: I built an institute; when necessary, it becomes a company, gets money, whatever it does, but it also comes and supervises me. What if there's a system that controls itself? Well, we've seen it happen in the mines. They came, the business inspectors there took the money from the mining boss, they inspected it -- they checked it -- all of our mines collapsed, all of our mines exploded. Well, the same thing will happen here. So something as funny as self-control could be on the surface of the Earth? That's why you should never do such a thing, Mr. Secretary. You have previously illegally sold private information against the Constitution, along with the Ministry of Labor. And now with the 19th article, you're making it a habit again and you're continuing it. Look, Mr. Secretary, there's something much more important here. It's a much more important substance, which is that you're starting a health science university. By building a health sciences university, you're betraying the college savings of our country over a century, and the academic environment that teachers have gained by giving their lives. Please don't do this. The Ministry of Health doesn't build colleges, Mr. Secretary. You shouldn't start college. We know the purpose of starting college is not academic. We know from the casts in the back, we know from the talks. The breach of the Constitution, on the other hand, is really unnecessary, but I know you have nothing. Mr. President, they said that our children should become professors, so you got up and passed this law. Now you have nothing, but I swear to God, Mr. Secretary, I wouldn't be sitting in that chair. If a superior tells me that our children are professors, Mr. Secretary, take out a law, let's see. I swear to God, let's have someone else sit here and let him go. It takes ten years to become an expert, a physician spends 15 years to become a professor, 20 years to become a professor. Now, you take a man with no soul like that, sir, come, my son, you're our boy, be a professor, and follow him to my faculty. I'm reminding you that that's not true, and that's what happened. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0122par0135	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. In the name of his personal name, Muğla MP Nurettin Demir. Here you go, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0123par0139	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the establishment of the chair of the Turkish Health Institutes No. 615, and on the broad majority of the Bill of Laws to change the provisions of some Law and Law. First of all, I salute the Supreme Court. Mr. Secretary, if we're actually getting 100 phone calls a day, it's the job they're most wanted on these phones and they want us to do first. You have made Turkey an unemployed country. Second, sir, look at my patient in three months for a biopsy -- they're giving him a day in six months. It's due in six months for a thyroid biopsy. Let alone the universities, the health department's educational hospitals are three months away. I'm afraid there are people who haven't made an appointment for a surgery in months for major surgeries. Now, you're going out in Turkey where your services on the first and second digits have stopped, you say: I'm going to build a health institute, I'm going to start a university. You're going to do great things. Are you going to do the Ministry or are you building a foundation? With an understanding that wiped Turkey out of the university environment and no example in the world, you're trying to start a medical school or a university again. Is there an example? Has a health department ever established a university?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0124par0143	Russia has one.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0123par0144	Nor in Russia, sir. Nor in Russia.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0124par0145	Iran has one.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0123par0146	And especially now that you've started it, you've started college, medical school, college, whatever. And what will the Justice Department do? He's gonna start law school? The Department of Agriculture is going to start an agricultural faculty? Well, if you don't trust it, if you don't trust 199 universities and 86 medical schools in Turkey and you say that you don't raise people, that you don't raise science, and that the commissioner is with you -- as a faculty professor -- were we raised wrong? Was I raised different or incomplete as a medical school professor? I'm having trouble understanding it. We discussed these articles in the commission, we spoke with Isla, and we said, "Don't do this." We said, "Don't do this, don't do this, don't do this, don't do this university tradition in Turkey." The first and 19th articles of the bill organise the establishment of the Turkish Institute of Health Sciences (TUSEB) of the Ministry of Health. The cancer, unfortunately, is one of the most important causes of death in our country and in the world, and unfortunately, you're giving both AKP MPs and public opinion grounds. Don't do it, Mr. Secretary. You're trying to build six other institutions other than cancer -- one of the most important causes of our country and the world's deaths. However, it is not understandable to establish a new institution instead of collaborating with the institutes of universities based on an excuse that society is sensitive to. ÜBİTAK and Turkey have respected universities, and the establishment of a new institute, resources and waste, is nothing but chaos. Whereas money and manpower could be combined under the roof of TUBITAK, a more efficient application would have been done. In addition, the Ministry and all its institutions are in Ankara, and it is very thought-free that a structure that can be established in all healthcare areas is far away from the administrative centre in Istanbul. The selection of the Haydarpaşa campus at the University of Marmara, which has a high rank value as a location, also makes a lot of sense. The universities are overwhelmed by bureaucratic obstacles, no investments are invested in them, and a new institute is being established with special budgets, scientific and administrative autonomy. Because, with TUSEB, a government structure is being formed, where all its staff is appointed by political will. Such an arrangement reveals the creation of a guided structure. In this regard, we repeat and repeat that the institute's staff should be elected by the scientific boards. The Ministry of Health is currently competing with the universities of state and foundation with its explicit privileges laid down by law. The Institute of Health Sciences is another crucial and sad part of the bill. A university is established in the Ministry of Health. All education and research hospitals are being linked to the university, which is envisioned for the development of doctors and other medical staff. The Ministry of Health is directly linked to the university ministry with a delegation of trustees, consisting of a single member and a total of five members, which the minister and minister will elect. So, where's the administrative autonomy, Mr. Secretary? Where's the financial autonomy? Where is Article 130 of the Constitution? Where's item 131? At least change the Constitution and then do it! We knew for a long time that the AKP government had been trying to become the president of medical schools, pointing out that college hospitals were in debt. With this bill, it's being provided, medical schools trying to connect with the Ministry. Like I just said, there's no other example in the world. This arrangement violates the Articles 130 and 131 of the Constitution, and the form of governance is also in violation of the Constitution. How is this any different from the Department of Justice and other ministries opening up a faculty? Through these two organizations, all the jobs the Ministry of Health can do for the SEC and universities... everything that the Ministry of Health can do is given to the Ministry's guidance; universities are given service inspections, acquiremention, science production and grad schooling powers. I mean, I don't know if we're doing Ministry or academic stuff, but I'm really confused, I don't get it! Actually, what was it, Congressmans? The universities needed to be strengthened and to be implemented here as well as in the West. But unfortunately, power has brought this law as a way to satisfy both political and personal opinions. The AKP government now protects its standardised form of law-making, the bag of legislation, in this bill. Many irrelevant substances are included in this bill. According to this, the basis for the determination of the professor candidates is transferred from the Inter-United Council to the WHO. I don't understand why they're doing this. Political assessments are open, favourable to the ruling circles, but a quick way for those who do not have adequate academic qualifications to get a title. The title of professor at the Academy is entirely left to political will. In universities, unfortunately, mobbing, pressure, intimidation, unlimited practice is increasing, autonomy is being destroyed, and only because of his participation in the Berkin Elvin actions, two or three professors have been suspended. I'm afraid we're seeing signs here that they're going to increase them further in the future. It's not just about this, it's about national education, it's about new legislation, especially about these very funny appointment managers, especially when they're doing oral interviews, and they're fucking up their faces. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0125par0159	Thank you, Mr. Iron. On behalf of the government, Minister of Health Mehmet Muezzinoğlu... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0126par0163	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, first of all, I salute you. Of course, when we look at health and medicine in the world, maybe it's an area where everyone can say all kinds of sentences in every dimension. There's not a minute where there's no new scientific developments in health, and there's not a minute where there's no new advances in medical technology in health, and that human beings and human beings want to be able to deal with and take advantage of these developments every minute of their health. We, the government of the Republic of Turkey, in particular during the AK PARTI, have worked hard for 12 years in an effort to ensure that all the opportunities available in health in the service of our country will receive proper transportation and rightful service to our people. We've made significant distances in getting to the doctor, to the hospital, to get to the medicine, to get to the medical technology. Of course, we all appreciate that it's not very possible for a patient to be sick for 24 hours, to have no problems or to have problems ending, to be trying to reduce the health problem. But what we've come to today as Turkey is that ten years ago, those who cited Germany as an example of England, ten to twelve years ago, those who said "America, France," even the people there now appreciate the dynamics that transform in this health in Turkey, and the data that reflect these dynamics into society, as well as the data of the world as scientific data. While the World Health Organization ranked Turkey in the European region in 2002, there is an important performance that we have captured in 2012 if the World Health Organization can show Turkey as a model country to 52 countries, countries in its region. However, a structure that deals with patients and health problems for 24 hours and monitors scientific developments around the world, monitors medical developments, offers technological developments in medicine to the people of the country, of course, will be criticized or incomplete, or the phones will not be in our pockets. Because ten years ago, the mother who didn't know what an endocrinologist was today calls us the endocrinologist of the child, and therefore, not only in Istanbul, Ankara, but in Ankara, she says it in Cizre, Çanakkale, Ezine of Çanakkale. Thus, together with all of this, we serve the health of the people of this country. And you're trying to contribute with your criticism.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0127par0168	What you're doing is going back to the Dark Ages...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0126par0169	In both the lower commission on this bill, and in the Commission, we have received proposals from both the HDP and the CHP and the AK PARTİ friends that we can evaluate their proposals, criticisms, harms, and ideas that I respect and value. In this sense, with joint motions, if I'm not mistaken, we've jointly submitted 24 motions, and we've made changes within the framework of those motions, the EC PARTY Group has submitted 12 motions, and we've accepted the six motions of the Republican People's Party, the opposition, and we've tried to bring them to a level of maturity. Dear friends, we're going through Turkey's Cancer Institute, valuable speakers. Look, we're prioritizing two for the first six months: the Cancer Institute and the Accreditation. If Turkey is going to set a goal in the health industry and health care RD and health tourism -- which can be the center of this nearby geography in this sense -- it has medical infrastructure, it has savings, it has experience -- and if it can take all of this in a healthy, visionary way, it needs an accordion institute. We'll discuss whether this is independent or not, and we'll evaluate all of this, but whether or not he needs it, he probably needs it all together. The Turkish Cancer Institute... my esteemed congressman friend says three years later... no, in the first six months, these two are to complete the other six in three years. A Institute of Public Health and Chronic Diseases... to think or claim that the Institute of Public Health and Chronic Diseases will harm the dynamics of this country during a period that has increased in both the world and in developing countries, so why is it that the scientist here, the scientist, who is also a valued congressman, is a scientist, is a scientist, a scientist, a scientist, a scientist, a scientist, a scientist, a scientist, a scientist, a scientist? Why is a scientist a scientist a scientist, a manager? A scientist's a manager, especially a very... Administrator, means he's a multi-director. Tomorrow, when he or a friend of ours becomes president of a university or a minister at a university, is he going to do business in science alone, or is he going to be a good manager? Now, we call it innovation here. Yeah, well, our universities have played major roles in this country, but who's to say we're not still in a state of innovation where we should be or where we should be? To contribute to the innovation dynamics of our universities... our educational research hospitals exist in this country before the Republic. Haseki Hospital, Ankara issue, has a history of a hundred and fifty years. Today, we offer 45 percent of our experts, medical experts - about half of them - to the service of our country in these educational research hospitals. I mean, I'm an internal expert at Haseki Hospital. Does this country win because the dynamics of our educational hospitals are stronger in a country of 59 educational research hospitals -- Ankara Numune, Şişli Etfal in Istanbul -- or does Health Minister Mehmet Muezzinoglu win? He exists today, he doesn't tomorrow, but educational hospitals are the wealth of this country, the institutional structures of this country. I find it difficult to understand why these institutional structures can walk stronger into the future, and why the doctrine, the professor's duty around here, bother some or why it is more powerful here, for the sake of the nation, for the future of the Republic of Turkey. He says: "The professorship of professorship, friends, none of this... I don't give, I don't give, I don't give, I don't give, I don't give, there's no such thing: whoever the RD gives to, it will continue today, and it will continue after lawless legislation has been passed. It's hard to understand why we're saying sentences that will mislead society or our own perception. So now, you're starting with cancer for six institutions in this country, so... let me start at the end: is the biotechnology institute necessary or not? Is the institution of public health and chronic illness the need of this country or not? Mom, do you need a children's and teenage health institute or not? In traditional and complementary medicine, why is it uncomfortable for Turkey to reveal its dynamics at this point if Germany, America, is at different points in this sense? There may be criticisms of technical error, but frankly, it's the Health Department of this country's Ministry of Health. A ministry with a responsibility to better care for the health needs of 77 million countries. He needs these laws to take responsibility for his ability to take this responsibility better, but my dear congressman says: "The mother's death has increased in forty years. Let's take a look at the numbers of the mother's death 40 years ago, ten years ago, twelve years ago, 12 years ago. Let's take a look at the baby's death. This country has been hearing about new-born intensive care for ten years. We're getting your newborn reviews right now. Why? Because we've opened intensive care, but we don't have a newborn ICU specialist. In order for all of this to get better, both colleges and institutes need this country, this country's people. So what happens is that if we disagree with friends, we do politics. We serve this country, we do politics for the service.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0128par0175	But, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0126par0176	Mr. Kamer, what happens when you don't understand...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0128par0177	Let's do it in college!
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0126par0178	Look, I care about you, please.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0128par0179	You're a guy from out of college!
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0126par0180	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0129par0181	Mr. Secretary, please address the General Assembly, do not talk to each other.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0126par0182	Guys, I'm not going into polymia here, I'm not going into polymia. Look, if I come from the commissions in this sense, whether it comes from the CHP or from the MPP, friends, every suggestion we believe to be true has a place above our heads. I want to reproach Aytug Bey on something -- by name here -- from the podium: This is what he showed me two or three hours ago about obesity or healthy nutrition. So I called our head of the agency, and I said, "Do what you have to do with our friend who made this mistake." Now, after I've said that there and I've talked to the head of the agency in front of him, and I'm saying that I can't make up for this very populist way of speaking to Aytug Bey, but I wouldn't have said it here if he hadn't told me. I believe this bill will contribute positively to the health of our country's healthy future. He says we need this bill in health care, especially in the health industry and health tourism, and I thank all my friends who contribute to the Commission, all the friends who will contribute to the General Assembly today, tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0130par0186	Thank you, Mr. Muezzinoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0131par0187	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0130par0188	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0131par0189	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has been picking on me by saying that I'm approaching populist. If you'll excuse me, I'd like two minutes of your time.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0130par0190	Please don't give me any more taunts, Mr. Horseman. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0131par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, yes, that's right, I showed you these things where I was sitting, and I talked to you, and I said to you, "Mr. Minister, I'm going to say these things on the stand." And you said to me, "Of course, come in, tell me, I'll be pleased. Now, when you take that part out, I'll be a populist, indeed, but I told you that I'm prepared to speak to you from the stand, and that's where you said, "We're done."
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0132par0196	So I said, "I'm going to do it. I did it with you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0131par0197	You said you'd do it. You said you'd be happy to. You said you'd do it on the stand.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0132par0198	There's no such thing...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0131par0199	Now, I'm not in the habit of projecting conversations here, but you did, so there's nothing to be done. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to address a few issues on this occasion. You said I shouldn't be a scientist and a politician. I'm no longer a scientist, I'm no longer a scientist, and I'm no longer a physician. I haven't touched a child since the day I was elected to Parliament, even before I was nominated. I miss it so much, that other thing, I really miss my job. I wish you could handle this health and I could go back to my babies! Sir, would the chancellor be both the chancellor and the director and the teacher? Sir, the rectors are already administrators, the rectors don't go and investigate, the rectors don't usually go and write. Rare are the exceptions. I don't mind the development of the Ministry of Health, on the contrary, I'm glad, but I'm pleased with the progress of the Ministry of Health. The baby's death rate has increased since last year, Mr. Secretary, and while you were away, without the AKP government, health indicators have improved horribly, dropped in infant deaths. I can't say that you've contributed to this, but all the doctors, all the nurses, but it's increased over the last year, so please take care of it. No, sir, there were jet professors yesterday, professors today, that's the only difference, and that doesn't really suit you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0133par0205	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. In the name of his personal servant, Ismail Sun. Here you go, Mr. Sun.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0134par0212	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge regarding the establishment of the chair of the Turkish Health Institutes No. 615 and the draft draft of the Law and Law. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, there have been major changes and transformations in health from 2002 to today during our EC PARTY governments. As a result of the change in health and transformation programme, hospitals were gathered under one roof, and all citizens were brought under social security, with quality standards brought to hospitals, with significant distances both in terms of medical equipment and infrastructure. On the other hand, health-based, traceable, sustainable policies have been passed on. As a result of these changes and transformation policies, the number of qualified beds increased from 61% to 46 per cent, and the number of intensive care beds increased significantly. The application to the physician per person -- the speakers before me -- increased from 3.2 per cent a year to 8.2 per cent. An important indicator of health criteria was that the expected life expectancy of birth increased from 71.8 in 2002 to 76 in 2012. In addition, the rate of baby deaths in 2002, I especially want to stress that, at 31.5 in 1,000 living births, it dropped to 4.7 per cent today. At the same time, the mother's death rate was 64 percent per 100,000 live births, while today it was 15.4 per cent. The level of satisfaction in health care has risen from 39 per cent to 75 per cent, and the number of births in the hospital has increased from 69 per cent to 97 per cent. The baby's monitoring rate has also increased from 62% to 99 percent. Again, on the other hand, the newborns are being scanned for hearing scans, hypothyroid scans, biotinidase scans. During our administrations, the second biggest breakthrough in health has been about infrastructure. During the time of our governments, new state hospitals were built in almost every district and many districts of Turkey, and they were built in the city hospitals, which were the last of them, with a very important bed capacity. With change in health, transformation practices and the construction of new state hospitals, our health standards have improved considerably. The establishment of the third stage of this development, Turkey's health institute, will ensure that both chronical and large financial burdens are reduced, as well as that domestic production of medical equipment and medicines used in diagnosis and treatment be abandoned, and that the mother and child will be protected from chronic diseases. On the other hand, the establishment of the Turkish health institute will be established to investigate the cancer causes and prevention methods that occupy an important place in human deaths and to develop healthcare institutions, such as studying scientificly and offering public services to alternative medical methods used by the public, which have long been known to exist. Given the financial resources spent on the RD studies in Turkey, the OECD and European countries have been funneling funds to R&D, such as 2 per cent of their illegal national product, which in our country constitutes approximately 1 per cent of the external national law. But when we look at health RD studies in European countries and OECD countries, the percentage of health RD studies in all RD studies is 89%, while in our country, unfortunately, it's not even half, it's less than half. On the other hand, when we look at world examples, in the United States, in France, in Germany, in Canada, in many countries, cancer institutions are followed as a national policy, and these institutions are established. On the other hand, if you want to know if there are ministries in our country, there are also many institutions in our Ministry of Forestry that depend on our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. On the other hand, many institutions operate under the roof of TÜBITAK, but while TÜBITAK has made serious progress in our country over the past few years, it is unfortunate that the health field has not been achieved. THE fact that TÜBİTAK (TÜBİTAK) is interested in many areas has not yielded the results that are expected to be uncoordinated by the health care shareholders. Our main goal here, in health institutes, is that maybe our 30-year-old universities have institutions like, you know, the cancer institute, but here our universities are working in an individual sense, they can't form country policy. Here, the main goal for our Ministry of Health to establish an institute is to create a policy across Turkey in these institutions, to establish a strategy and to concentrate on it. On the other hand, when we look at the structure of our health institutes, of course, in our health institutes, when you actually look at the structure of our higher advisory board, there are members of the ministries as well as of other NGOs, the Union of Turkish Medicines, the Association of Pharmaceuticals, the Chamber of Dentists. On the other hand, the fact that these six members, on the other hand, had at least a Ph.D. in this field shows that this is also scientifically powerful. On the other hand, Turkey, of course, is going to win with the establishment of these health institutes, and the work in this area is very large in Turkey, but it has been a factor in the return of these to the final product, or, let's say, the determination of health policies or the lack of an active role in the creation of preventive policies so far. From now on, I hope this negativity will go away. On the other hand, of course, one of the most critical issues here is the establishment of a health university by the Ministry of Health. Here, of course, we have about 1,500 professors and professors at our many educational and research hospitals. And when the matter is settled for them, they are in great straitness. We have thousands of doctors who are trained here and are studying here, and I think it will contribute to the development of education in a standard, increasing the wealth of faculty, and I think that the establishment of health institutes and the establishment of a health university in the Ministry of Health will make significant contributions to Turkey's health. I hereby declare myself in favor of this law. I wish this law to be a blessing to our country and our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0135par0225	Thank you, Mr. Sun. Moving on to QA. Interrogation's 20 minutes. I'll take ten minutes to ask questions. I'll give the MPs a minute of my word that he's in the system. Mr. Light, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0136par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, where did this health sciences university come from today when there are so many medical schools, health sciences faculty at both public universities and foundation universities? That's my first question. What are the reasons for such a course rather than strengthening them? Second of all, this is no college, no college, no community college. So to speak, no camel, no bird, plus ostrich. In violation of the constitution and existing legislation, the rectory is elected by a trustee delegation from candidate candidates. 6 people should be elected university professors, while a total of 5 people are, unfortunately, appointed by those who are members of the 5 trustees' delegation, three of whom are members of the Ministry of Health. I mean, what kind of understanding is that? Is this model a copy of the DMV model in your head, or are you going to bring it back from now on? That's what I want to know.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0137par0232	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0138par0234	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, today at the clinics of public hospitals in the Ministry of Health, an average of 100-150 patients a day are taken care of. Thus, we have reached the application of 8.5 patients per year. It has been determined from time to time that the government boasts. Do you think it's right to be treated with such intense care in public hospital clinics when there's a paper trail that even a paper clerk can submit on a daily basis? Do you believe that a qualified health care will emerge from here? In some majors, the SGK has limited its polyclinic numbers to 50, 40 in some majors. Is that the truth, or is it 100-150 patients? Will there be a qualified health care here? That's my question. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0139par0238	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0140par0240	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've given you the figures for the Office of Health Statistics. Speaking on behalf of the AKP, the MP speaking on behalf of him did not give the right information. Health Statistics Department says that the death of a mother is 15,4 per 100,000 in 2012, 15.9 in 2013; the infant deaths are 7.4 per thousand in 2012, 7.8 per thousand in 2013. Look, this is the first time in over 40 years, Mr. Secretary. I feel it in my heart as a pediatrician. Please, don't make this a political polemic issue. Congressmans, please, this is not a political polemic issue. When the infant's death rose from 7.4 to 7.8, an increase of 0.4 is an additional 600 babies in this country where about 1.5 million babies are born a year. What in God's name are we talking about? I'm saying 600 babies are dying, you're doing polemics, please.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0141par0244	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Dear Private...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0142par0246	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals, which had not been found in Turkey, brought unlicensed drugs to their homes only at a low cost, and 50 percent of them were orphaned drugs, 50 percent biotechnology products. You've clearly allowed 15 warehouses to do it against the law. One of them is the IDM belonging to Burhan Isen. He had already marketed personal health data with the Gatamed Corporation by buying from the SGK. This IDM obtained all the data from the drug tracking system and e-mailed it to pharmacists, patients, and said that a doctor had been placed in charge of Medicine and Medical Devices, and that he had leaked all your data to Burhan Isen, the President of Medicine and Medicine. What's the status on this investigation? Although we have warned you repeatedly and warned you of this danger, you have taken no precautions, and the health and data of the patients is at stake. You've also provided a large sum of money for an ally company. What do you call this?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0141par0248	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0143par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, with this bill, the Ministry of Health has established a university to raise doctors and other medical staff. Is this not contrary to the 130th and 131th provisions of the Constitution? Is it not contrary to the Constitution? All education and research hospitals in Turkey are connected to the medical school created. Isn't that to ignore the reality of the country? Isn't the Health Department in an unfair and unnecessary race with university hospitals? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0144par0253	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0145par0255	Thank you, Mr. President. Will the chairmanship of the Turkish Institutes of Health have authority and control over all universities that will provide audits to both these institutions and universities, even all universities in the field of health? Second question, Mr. Secretary, you're a physician. Retired physicians are in very bad shape, I'm afraid. Do you have any thoughts on that, or do you have any references? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0146par0259	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0147par0261	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister - Mr. Light asked the same question -- my first question is: Do you want to bring in a new health department that will not search for September 12th, when you have 199 public and foundation universities, 86 medical schools, and as a government, you need to develop these universities and universities? My second question is: let's say the refugees from Syria, let's say they're residents, let's say they're from the region where polio has been cured because of it. Where are the studies? What size is this disease, is it cured? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0148par0265	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0149par0267	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, when will the university hospital end at Şanliurfa University? Of course, the population of Şanliurfa is constantly increasing, and the existing hospitals are unable to respond to public health needs. Do you have any plans for this? The second question is: the decree available in this bill can establish a company. The decree brings tax exemption. Wouldn't the difference between other companies be contrary to the principle of equality in the 10th article of our Constitution? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0150par0271	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0151par0273	Mr. President, thank you. Now, our question is to the Minister of Health. This is the Public Hospital Association, it's just been established. After this Association of Public Hospitals is established, patients are transferred from one hospital to another hospital, this patient is asked by relatives, but the hospital across the street accepts or doesn't. In these ambulances, there are many patients walking around the city with sirens; from time to time, they often make calls to us, saying, "Find us a place. " Yeah, that's a hell of a problem, too. Well, Minister, isn't there any way we can find a clear solution to this? How, then, will the patient convince his relatives who are in charge of the hospital, and how will he find a place for them? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0152par0276	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0153par0278	Mr. Secretary, you have expressed the fact that you have taken on a great business, a great breakthrough in this bill you've made. I'll tell you a little business you'll have to take care of, along with my friends, because of the absence of nurses in our hospitals, the surgeries are being delayed. Nurses are forced to keep a very long watch day and night, and even though our hospital administrators have made different demands for you and the Ministry of Finance, this nurse is still incomplete. How do you feel about that? Otherwise, there are rumors that you're thinking of acting as a substitute, as well as a nurse. We don't want a guardian, we want a nurse. The managers say. We need you to take care of this as soon as possible.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0152par0279	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0154par0281	Thank you. Of course, in the Commission today, we've tried to explain as much college as possible, and why, but once again... Mr. Alim, dear friends, the number of our educational research hospitals is 59 now, and many of them are hospitals with historical backgrounds, and they already exist under the name of educational research hospitals, and they grow 45 percent of our professional staff here. We've had two problems around here: one of them is the training that we've done before with the chief, the deputy chief. The professor and the professor's staff, we have a job problem here. When we can't get jobs, our standard of education here is going down. But that's the wealth of the country. Secondly, we need to make the dynamics of this place strong in order to perform specialized surgeries, type A surgeries, and give them to residents as training. For this reason, these educational and research hospitals already have the wealth of this country's Ministry of Health and the wealth of this nation and these educational research hospitals. We need a structure like this to protect the dynamics of those who exist and take it one step higher. So in this sense, in a country with 86 medical schools, the health ministry's structure in this sense is 87, which weakens the dynamics of our universities, or why? There are 86, what's the harm when it's 87? So you understand that, plus, it's a need, a need for this country, for the structures of this nation. To meet this need.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0155par0285	But Hajji, this is a new model; this university's name is known. There's no such example, so it's against the Constitution now.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0154par0286	Now, let's hope it's not contrary to the Constitution, but there's no precedent. Friends, there are many examples of surgeries that we didn't do in medicine today, many examples of majors that didn't happen yesterday. And if we need a new example in this sense, if this new example believes it to be true, then this Parliament will also set this right example.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0156par0287	Many laws issued by this House have returned from the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0154par0288	Is it against the law or not? We don't think it's us. I hope to try to answer her legal grounds in this sense in other questions.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0157par0289	He's running for president right now.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0154par0290	Sir?
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0157par0291	The president's election is clear. You expel the professor, the trustee, the trustee. I mean, does that even exist? How are we gonna get through this? There will be contradictions.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0154par0292	Yeah, we didn't put anything that didn't exist in the NGO's laws. Let's share it later so we don't waste any time. Mr. Lightning, I mean, once, there's 100-150 clinics, maybe the part that's exceptional. That's not true, that's the number that we have here with certain limitations, so even 50-60 is actually a number of clinics that we need to discuss, but of course, we're a country that has a problem with the number of physicians. The S.E.C.'s giving 50 patients in private or 40-50-60 or something. We plan to bring order to this especially in the ERs, but it's not so easy... and I agree that your request is correct, and I'd like to share that planning isn't so easy. Mr. Horseman, I mean, I didn't say those words like a polemic. It's just that I don't think it's a polymic part...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0158par0295	No, I said it for our congressman.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0154par0296	So here, of course, one missing baby death, one missing mother death, is our primary goal. When the mother dies, when the baby dies, when the baby dies, it's much lower, if possible, it's all of our dynamics, but I told you, we're a country that's not a baby-care specialist or a newborn expert. During this period, only one newborn specialist completed a side branch and we sent him to the mandatory service. Children's ICU specialist...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0159par0297	You're not hiring, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0154par0298	Nurettin Bey, we don't stockpile these staffs on the shore, we're trying to plan for the service of this country's people. Now, we don't keep stock in storage anywhere, all in the service of this country's people, either in college or in the private sector. To make sure one of them doesn't stay empty... And on the other hand, we complain, we want more hours, we want more sacrifices, we want more sacrifices. We're short on family medicine, we're short on specialists, but if we go back in time here, it'll go into polymia. There are more physicians in this country. There is a 20- or 20-year process that freezes the number of students to medical school by 2007, and we are now discussing our medical deficit. For the first time since 2007, we've received 2,500 more students, and now we're in the 11,800, and what are we discussing here? Education quality is dropping. We're discussing it. Guys, after all, there are all kinds of dimensions to this problem. We have a duty and responsibility to use our grown-up people efficiently, to share them with each other. Of course, in this sense, we can achieve and talk about the baby death of 7.4 percent from 30 percent to 5 percent, and we can talk about it here, but we can't do it or you can do it.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0160par0299	But let's see you rise, Mr. Secretary. Let's see it rise, let's identify it, so we don't avoid it.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0154par0300	We don't deny a number, nor do we claim to say 7.4 percent with too much pride, and I wish there were 5. But you have to admit, he's come down from the 30s. It's about the polio or the measles, and maybe I'll say it before it's a question of whether or not the Polio Science Board has said it's necessary to inoculate in the areas of risk in our country right now. If I'm not mistaken, in May, in June, we had two doses in our seven provinces. Last June, we did the second period in six districts in Istanbul and the second dose in October last month. In May or June 2013, the measles became a two - month - old picnic. Currently, Turkey has fallen to its lowest level -- three years, four years ago. Therefore, there is no such thing as a period of distress. My Free Special Brother's question may be more detailed later... but I got an answer in the form of an SGK investigation. Let's try to get the information wide and share it again. Isn't it contrary to the Constitution? In that sense, we, the AK PARTY Group, feel that it is not contrary to the Constitution. But we'll share those grounds with you. The state of the retired physicians... if we can make it, I'd like to.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0161par0305	It's in your hands.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0154par0306	About the right to control... maybe I'm missing the question. Is TÜSEB going to supervise the universities? There is no such thing. Mr. Tanal, we met with the Chancellor of the University of Harran about a month and a half ago in Şanlıurfa. We're in the process of signing protocols for the exhibition, and, if I'm not mistaken, we're in the position to start the hospital as of New Year's Eve.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0162par0308	There was planning before I became a congressman, I'm out of parliamentary time, and this hospital issue is still unresolved.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0154par0309	Now, Mr. Tanal, here's the part about the university hospital. After all, the chancellor and I agreed on a principle a week ago, in the process of signing the protocol. The college part's been on our agenda for a month and a half now. With a community-special cooperation, the city hospital's approval of the YPK has begun, the tender process has begun. Job was also tendered, and finished in June. Isn't it against the Constitution about starting a company? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, one, to the laws of the TUBITAK...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0163par0313	Mr. Secretary, this is the end of our time.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0154par0314	I'll finish if you want.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0164par0315	Excuse me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0163par0316	If you'd like to finish your sentence, please, continue.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0154par0317	Now, this company is very commercially interpreted. Now -- especially the biotechnology institute -- in this sense, the RD of the pharmaceutical industry or pharmaceutical industry is bringing us a project in a sense. It says that if this project is to be supported for three years, five years, ten years, then if the science board is giving us a report that believes that the outcome of this project can be successful, then, in this sense, the biotechnology institute is making money for other investments -- and when we have a positive success there -- yes, this company can be a 10 percent shareholder, it can have a 5% shareholder -- and in this sense, it's open to the control of the law of finances. But there'll come a time when we'll give one million, three million, 10 million in support of these research. It's a project that's been supported for ten years, and if it's a success, then let's say that you're getting a share of it -- excuse me -- a manager should be thinking about it, and this is with foreign companies, if necessary, foreign companies -- and so on -- and we call it plasma technology, can we produce plasma in this country without doing it with foreign companies? So, in this sense, friends should be open to control, the law should follow, but this country should be able to do that. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0165par0320	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0166par0321	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit04spe0165par0322	I will, sir. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete, and I'm going to put it to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit05spe0165par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 12th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There was not enough of a decision in the vote to transfer to the Articles of the Law Bill 615. Now I'm going to vote again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2014-11-11sit05spe0167par0005	Yes, I do, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit05spe0165par0006	Yeah, there is. It doesn't exist when you say there is. There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-11sit06spe0165par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 12th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The decision was not enough in both ballots in the adoption of the Articles of the Law Bill 615. Now I'm going to vote again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. The third vote said Wednesday (November 12th 2014) that the bill and the proposals and other tasks from the commissions would be discussed in order of the decision-making. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
