tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Y O L A M A The electronic device will do a roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Kastamonon MP Emin Çınar (a member of the Kastamon) who wants to talk about the forest and water problems. Here you go, Mr. Çınar. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Congressmans, please, if we'll be quiet, we'll hear more about the congressman on the stand. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0002par0013	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise regarding the forest and water work and other issues of the province of Kastamonu. I salute your high council. My fellow lawmakers, Kastamonu is one of the most distinguished provinces of the West Black Sea. There are 20 districts of our province, 1,071 villages, 3,520 settlements. The problems with the province of Kastamonu, which has a disorganized geography, continue in earnest. In particular, during the period when the AKP was ruling this side from 2002, the province of Kastamonu, unfortunately did not benefit enough from this power, and lost many of its important institutions through privatisations. My fellow lawmakers, the province of Kastamonu is one of our provinces of agriculture and livestock. Its 17,000 patrons are one of our leading provinces, especially with their dignity in the national struggle. But this is one of the provinces of Kastamon, which unfortunately, at the point of investments during the 12 years of AKP power, did not receive what was required by other provinces. In particular, unemployment is one of the serious problems of the province of Kastamon. The province of Kastamonu, who has been struggling with this problem, has recently... When I specifically requested this conversation, I requested this conversation, hoping that the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs would listen to my speech. I'd like to share an application with you here at the 23rd DSI Regional Directorate at the General Assembly. I'd like to share with you what six of our fellow workers who have applied to the 23rd DSI Regional Directorate and the Ankara General Manager's Office at two employees scheduled to be picked up on the job-KuR application.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0003par0020	Congressmans, would you please be quiet?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0002par0021	Of course, it doesn't matter if my dear congressman friends listen to me or not. Corruptions that began today on December 17th, when the Prime Minister and his son's sons came to the agenda. I'd like to leave these lawmakers to their own devices, who show their inability not to listen to a congressman who has uncovered a scandal with him in Kastamon.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0004par0022	I didn't recognize you. Where did you come from? When did you get here, when did you become a deputy?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0002par0023	My fellow citizens in Kastamonu, who are waiting for bread, are applying to State Waterworks, dear friends, the KPSS score is at the front. But as a result of the assessment, six people from Afyon Shuhatli, who, as a result of this application through the office, have failed to interview one of our friends for the failure of our Kastamonu resident's driver's license, but with my other Kastamonu residents, two citizens from Afyon Shuhattlu, who are the Minister's sister, Ankara, are in charge of the general administration, and in the result of the interviews with the minister's torpedo... We're not worried about our two valued citizens getting a job, but I'd like to express here the discomfort we feel about the eating of Kastamon's bread.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0005par0025	He'll take his nephews or something, don't worry. You have to have a nephew to get in there.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0002par0026	Despite a low KPSS score, these two citizens are taking part in these interviews as electrical technicians, as a result of the Afyon Shuhutlu, the Minister's fellow minister's application. Their dwelling is not in Kastamon, but in Kastamon. Unfortunately, when you look at the KPSS points, one of them's in the third row, one of them's in the fifth row. Moreover, even though our friends who have applied for this application need to demonstrate enough experience for five years, there is a question of whether this experience exists. Of course, I'd like the Minister to be here himself to answer the allegations we've made, but unfortunately, they're not here today. I especially want to express from this platform the defeat of this effort in Kastamon (Kastamon) through the leaders of the AKP (the AKP) group. Theirs, in this national struggle, is the enemy... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...even though you have the most martyrs in this town that don't step foot down, I expect them to step forward to rectify the injustice. I salute the General Assembly again, and entrust you to God.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0006par0032	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan, who wants to talk about Şırnak's problems. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0007par0036	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will now address your conscience, your mercy, your humanity. A Turkey with 15,000 refugees -- the 16th largest economy of the world -- has 15,000 citizens been in Mahmur camp since the 90s, and does it not bother you or not? Look, for 20 years, because their villages have been burned down, because their homes have been burned down, these 15,000 citizens of yours who have left because their gardens have been burned down, and if your compatriots are still living as refugees, isn't that a disgrace in Turkey of the 21st century? Security. When you say Şırnak, security comes to mind. We're building HES dams, building security dams, 12 of them. You are going to Hezil Tea, and Habur Tea, and we are building security dams everywhere. Why are you building a security dam, brother? I'm going to produce electricity. Why is it called a security dam? Well, security. There's a security syndrome in Şırnak, my friends. Now he's got security road syndrome. The way of security, look, no one sees the events of a week in Şırnak, Uludere, Roboski, where 34 of our citizens have been murdered. Everyone's mind is on tape, which is important, of course, but if the Cobras are opening fire in your country, the obese cannons are opening fire, the rockets are opening fire, in a process of peace and brotherhood, where today, at six o'clock this morning, Şırnak MP Faysal Sarıyıldır will target gas flares, including his adviser, the Councilor of Uludere and Roboski people, if they don't make any sense to you tomorrow, the attack of a hundred-man family will not be happening when the KobraÁs, Sikorsky AHs, and the F16s, and the shots of these weapons are being raised. We're warning the government here that trying to build a security road is not wise in Uldere, but at the point of zero, where the F16 bombs have shattered lives, and not on the territory of Turkey, you enter the Iraqi Kurdistan, you enter another country, in the 30 years of conflict, the White Hill, known as the Koxe spek, where there is no road to prosperity? Look, the world's largest black border trade -- bigger than Mexico -- is in Şırnak, Habur Gate. You're looking at the numbers, the exports from the Habur Border Gate in 2012, have more than a billion exports in the 81 counties in Turkey. So, exports are true, right? But 95 percent of them went through other provinces, through our gates; Şırnak didn't do it; my brother, my dear brother, that's the point, the Şırnak didn't do it. He did it there from Mersin, he came from Adana, he did it there, he did it there, he did it there, he did it in Istanbul... but from Şırnak, they've always come and gone from there. Now, there's the coal of Şırnak. There's asphaltite, there's the vanadium mine. Vanadium mine is used in the aircraft industry... the thermal power plant has begun. Six thermal power plants are now licensed based on coal, after a thermal plant that currently operates three units. Take wealth, corrupt it, corrupt it, desecrate the environment, exploit it, kill the citizen, kill your brother, kill your brother, kill your brother, kill your brother, kill your own brother, and your own people's rights; steal, commit corruption, commit injustice, commit injustice! Look at the laws you've been making for a week. For God's sake, what do you expect of these laws? What are these bags going to fill, what are they going to fill? Go take care of peace and brotherhood in Uludere. If you really don't have the sisterhood process, if there's blood flowing tomorrow, and there's someone who thinks that nationalism, racism, will deflect the agenda and save themselves, it's a mistake. I've been talking for a week, I'm telling the ministers, I'm telling the authorities, but I'm not getting any results. I warn you, let the government take precautions before another Roboski massacre occurs.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0008par0043	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0007par0044	Mr. President, where is the government? We're doing these off-the-tops so the government can answer.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0009par0045	Is it the government's face to stand in front of the House?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0008par0046	Yes, the third word off the agenda belongs to Izmir MP Oğuz Oyan, who wants to talk about the coups. Here you go, Mr. Oyan.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0010par0049	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today on March 12th, I'm giving a speech that I'd like to make, based on coups. There's a power that's constantly doing coup victim politics, and it's also the Republican People's Party, particularly the People's Party, but accusing Turkey's left intellectuals of coupting. Now, I'm going to say here once that the movement that's taking the most advantage of these blows is religious politics, and I'm also going to show that it's as far as calling for a coup. See, now I'm showing you a magazine, again called National Warfare, published on February 16th, 12th of March. The headline of the magazine is "Tagmaç" and "Army Against Communists People El El El El El Ele." • Among them are the most interesting names, such as Aykut Edibali, Cemil Cicek, Melih Gökçek, Taha Akyol, Attila Yayla, Hüseyin Güzlar, Ali Mufit Gürtuna. And there's a message in it that's been framed, a message from Cemil Cicek. At the time, Cemil Cicek is speaking for the Istanbul banner executive committee and conveys his support and commitment to the message he published due to the Festival of Sacrifice, and there is a series of messages calling the army to the post starting with the editorial of this magazine. My dear friends, who are the coupgers, who have encouraged the blows, who have profited from the blows, it is wise to reconsider. Of course, these coups have always been done through anti-terrorism, through anti-terrorism, but have always used religion. Remember the Universe in 1980, when he was walking around with the Koran. Let me tell you something else about the 1971 coup. After the 1971 coup, the Air Force's aircraft, Necmettin Erbakan, was brought from abroad and entered into politics after the March 12 coup. So this shows us once again what kind of relationship it is. Here's February '97, February 28th. After the 28 February process, the Welfare Party is replaced by the Efficient Party after its closure. And who, from Abdullah Gul and Necmettin Erbakan, who are fighting for power within the Party of Virtue, who, when Necmettin Erbakan has been victorious in this struggle, is carrying documents to the Attorney General's office to shut down the Favourate Party while the Party is on the agenda? Zatimuhterem and the Deputy Prime Minister, who are currently sitting in the presidential seat, are still in office, Bulent Arinc. They did it to shut down the Party of Virtue and to separate themselves from the mile line of sight over this closure and thus establish a basis for legitimacy, and they shamelessly encouraged the closing of the parties to develop an expression that it was a couptic mentality. My dear friends, we know how to be in power with these lies, with these entanglements. We see how a lie like the Blurstone incident is made up, how such fiction is made up, how it's trapped under it. We know how a civil war instigation in Turkey was done by the Prime Minister on the occasion of the Kabataş incident. So once again, we see that this power will resort to all kinds of lies, all kinds of order, to avoid power. In fact, these, of course, are not the things that AKP had invented when you looked at them as a start. What the Hitler regime did in Germany in 1933 to strengthen the power of the Reichstag -- the destruction of the parliament building -- was to get the Nazi forces to show the communists as criminals, and then to bring down the Weimar Constitution. So he broke the constitution, destroyed it. Even though the German courts at the time proved it was a conspiracy, Skeküdar had passed the horse and Hitler had already put the constitutional regime on the shelf. That's why, dear friends, what's more dangerous than military dictatorships is civilian dictatorships. Military dictatorships, after all, have always been temporary, at least in Turkey's example. And people have hope. This hope is to enter the new democratic regime. But when civilian fascism comes in, it doesn't go away. That's what's happening right now. Today, after December 17th, as you can see from the documents that fell on YouTube yesterday... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is drowning in power corruption and making evidence black out...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0011par0059	They're fake documents, they're fake.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0010par0060	...to bring down the crowd by blacking out...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0011par0061	Hodja, how can you talk about postings over fake things?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0010par0062	...trying to avoid fascism by deepening the civil blow even further. There's no way out of this, my dear friends. Do whatever it takes in a democratic country, force your own Prime Minister to resign. This is your mission.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0012par0064	You have my orders, you have my orders. He'll quit tomorrow!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0010par0065	If you don't do this...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0013par0066	Thank you, Mr. Oyan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll make a promise to our lawmakers who've entered the system according to 60. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0014par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Last night, the websites published conversations with Mr. Erdogan's son. Turns out it was the morning of the December 17th robbery operation. It's a really, really scary, blushy speech that makes people listen. After listening to these conversations, God prays to the community of Muhammad, that the best of the children and the righteous of the father. It appears that trillions of lira were saved in the residence of Bilal, the son of Erdogan, and that the money was taken from the dwelling. Erdogan says these tapes are montages. He says, "It's not my voice." He doesn't say, "It's not the voice of Bill." He doesn't say, or "There's no money." The judicial body must act. It's more clear why the laws of HSYK and MIT were brought to Parliament in such a hurry. No one can sit on the mud of theft any longer. No one can speak of the humanity, chastity, or even faith of these people. I call upon our coven to act. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0015par0075	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0016par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to ask. Why does a leader continue to fight a battle he knows he's lost? The world-famous British historian Kershaw is one of the scientists looking for the answer to that question. In his 2011 book, "The Endbook," he studied the last year of Hitler's life. Hitler, who ended the wars, realized that war was no longer winable. However, he continued to fight a battle that was clearly lost in 1944 until May 1945. Kershaw's work has shown how the delusions of a leader and the staff around him can lead to a chain of major mistakes. Today we have a period in Turkey where an authoritarian leader and the tight staff around him are completely cut off from reality. The insatiable ambition of this hallucinatory staff is causing great damage to democracy, economics and the legal state in Turkey. My fear is that in the future, historian Kershaw will write a book on The End for Erdogan. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0017par0081	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0018par0083	Mr. President, I'd like to tell you how the people of the Adak district of Bingley were deceived and how they were personally cast by Development Minister Cevdet Yilmaz. It's 2009, before the local election. The minister gives good news to the people of Adak, saying that we will lay the foundation of a state hospital with 50 beds. The local election wins another party, the 50-bed state hospital turns into a 35-bed hospital and then into a 20-bed integrated family health centre, which means the people of Adakak are being punished. There's only one ambulance available for the population of 10,500. I am ashamed of the same minister's bad ways. You can remove what he says from the record. Did this Minister do what he had to do? No. I gave up the country roads, even the road to Adakak-Karliova is still stable. I wonder, with what face will you go to ask Adglı to vote? Such needs must be met immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0019par0086	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0020par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. The Republic of Turkey is experiencing a crisis of governance that it has never seen in its history. The state's institutions, even within the same institution, are confronting employees, the Constitutional anti-constitutional regulations are being ratified by the President one by one, the independent courts are not implementing their decisions, the Prime Minister tells his son not to testify to the judiciary. The painting on the wiretaps and images is much more severe. Society has been following this closely. Now in taxis, in taxis, people listen to these recordings instead of Ferdi Baba, Orhan Baba. The Supreme Court and other judicial authorities must shed light on these issues. The government should allow it to come to light, to come to light, rather than to play with judgment and security to cover up these doubts. The public wonders what the government is doing under the shadow. That should be allowed. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0021par0092	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0022par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. In 1992, Armenian forces carried out a brutal massacre in the village of Hoxhalı, Azerbaijan. Once again, I curse this genocide in the occupied land of Azerbaijan. In spite of the twenty-two years, I stress that we need to learn a lesson even greater than the fact that this invasion has not been lifted. It must be understood by everyone that AKP government signed with Armenia that the Zurich Protocols spoiled Armenia and caused it to take a compromise. Turkey and Azerbaijan have to act in every area in order to escape the invasion of Azerbaijan territory. I'd like to extend my regards to the AKP government and the Azerbaijan governments, to ensure that their teacher's victims do not offend their souls any more, that they act immediately. .
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0023par0097	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0024par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ministers -- the ministers of the question -- but I don't know if they'll be able to answer -- how many acres are the villas where the Prime Minister lives in Skopjedar Pasiklı? From 17 December 2013, has there been any digging done in the villas and gardens where the Prime Minister and his family lived in Squashland until now? If the digging was done, was it done at night or during the day? Why was this dig done? If there's been a dig here, is there a burial map? Has this been reported to the Treasury? Did any archaeologists perform this excavation? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0025par0102	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0026par0104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to ask you here to present a number of phone calls and reports I received from our people on this matter. Our people say: "Are we going to wake up every morning with tapas? After two of the Prime Minister's sons, like the son of the other two ministers, were actually involved in these tapes, we understood that the country's rapid legal changes, especially our speed towards the state of the MIT, and the reasons for the establishment of the OSCE state. Will Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his son resign from the office after these verses, and will they be able to testify to the prosecution? Will they open the way for Turkey after their testimony? Will they prevent further harm to this country and to rob such a state once the Republic of Turkey is established? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0027par0107	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0028par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, there is a meeting of the Republican People's Party Group General Assembly at 13.30 p.m. every Tuesday. At this meeting, our chairman, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, makes assessments on the country's agenda. This assessment, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, is broadcast by a portion of private televisions, partially broadcasts it, but the Parliamentary TV, which belongs to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, is uninterrupted. Mr. Kilicdaroglu's speech at this meeting, where parliament TV has been running uninterrupted, has been interrupted today. In his speech today, Mr. Kilicdaroglu shared the tapes that fell to the Internet last night, claiming it was between the Prime Minister and his son. At the time of Mr. Kilicdaroğlu's speech, Parliament TV stopped broadcasting. Parliament TV has no right to interrupt this broadcast. Intervention in this publication is no different than interfering with an MP's speech on the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Speaker has no right. I condemn the Speaker, I invite him on duty. I condemn your non-democracy attitude in front of Parliament.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0027par0112	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0029par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, today, when the Prime Minister of a country panics over a public investigation and calls his son to clean up the house in a hurry, it is against the will of the nation to cut the broadcast of Parliament TV. If a person earns some legitimate money and hides it in his son's house, he won't mind if it comes out, but make a phone call at 8:00 a.m. to clean it up. He won't say, "Do it." However, if this is the money obtained by corruption, theft, and this is the country's Prime Minister, it is now a matter of news value, not private life that concerns all public opinion. It is natural and legitimate for the main opposition party to say so. Against that, the attitude of Parliamentary TV is unacceptable, it is the channel of the TRT, and it is the source of the nation, and it is the position of the Turkish nation to broadcast it with the money of the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0027par0117	Thank you, Mr. Original. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0030par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, for the last two months, people have been counting dollars and people are walking away from their real agenda while they're moving dollars. Because of the drought, the farmer is really crying out in the Toros and Çukurova, where I've been for the weekend. Wheat producers are down by about 50 percent. The vegetable manufacturer is miserable, and they're working for corn bread, and they're having serious problems with it. Despite the fact that we have expressed it here, the Minister of the Forest says: "Our plans are ready, don't worry. We have serious concerns about the drought," says the Minister of Agriculture. Where even the two ministers of the government are in conflict, our farmers are in serious trouble. On the one hand, the credit card, the credit debt, the lack of efficiency on the other, and the fact that their fields are mortgaged raises concerns about the future. We invite the government to return to the nation's real agenda as soon as possible. I believe that when someone delivers the dollars, there must also be a cure for the problems of our farmers.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0027par0121	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0031par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the president of the government today is a person who has been exposed to corruption and should not be sitting in the Prime Minister's office, morally and politically. Therefore, there is no government in the Parliament now, Turkey. It is not lawful for Parliament to work where there is no government. So if someone has morals, if they have politics, if they have law, they need to resign. It's obvious. So we can't ignore it. As a congressman, any member of parliament, any member of the party, no matter what member of parliament, anyone who sits under this roof should be honest, moral, and in the best interest of the country. Now, this one has been exposed and exposed to corruption. In addition, our President-in-chief, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Cemil Cicek, is already a partner in corruption, and under his direction, our President-in-Chief's statements about this corruption have been blocked from the public. I wish this to be given back to the television of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0027par0125	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0032par0127	Mr. President, thank you. I celebrate the 93rd anniversary of Ardahan's deliverance from enemy occupation, but our farmers and tradesmen in Ardahan are very miserable. The farmers' feed plants have not been paid, just as the tradesman couldn't. They said we'd pay me in February. I'm also asking the Minister to speed up the feed money for the farmers in Ardahan. This week, please.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0027par0129	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Elvan, come in. Your position, please. Mr. President, different statements were used last night about the tape that was alleged to be about our Prime Minister. You know, the Prime Minister's office has made a statement that it's completely edited and that it's an immoral attack. We feel the same way, that it's entirely a product of editing and immoral behavior, and it's not right for anyone, no political party, to do politics on illegal, illegal tapes. We all need law, each and every one of us should respect law. I'm saying that a party today makes politics out of illegal tapes, another party tomorrow, but all of us, together, all of our MPs, all of our Congress, must fight against illegal, illegal practices. My respects, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Elvan.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0033par0136	Mr. President, it's not illegal here, it's the bottom line, so...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0027par0137	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0033par0138	Did Tayip Erdogan and his son have such a talk or not? It's not illegal that matters.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0027par0139	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0033par0140	It's not illegal because of the constants he's having this conversation with. You can't run from theft. You can't argue with that.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0027par0141	You have spoken, Mr. Secretary has spoken, please, remain calm. Mr. President, it's not accurate. Sitting in the government... it's not an illegal matter, but the essence of the matter is right or wrong? It's true, and he knows it.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0034par0143	It's all lies, it's all lies, it's all lies.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0027par0144	Finally, Mr. Sour, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0035par0145	Mr. President, thank you. Excuse me while the Minister of Transport is here. Is it true that completing the 94km road, which was originally built by the State Water Department to build the Topcham Dam and the Melet Waterwater Water Dam, which will connect the Black Sea to the Mediterranean as quickly as possible, was taken over by the General Directorate of the Highways? At what stage is the construction of the road in question? What parts have been completed, what parts are under construction? On what date are these scheduled to be completed? What project parts are in the project or in the tender phase? I asked these questions last year, and I haven't had any answers until today. I hope the Minister will answer these questions on this occasion. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0036par0148	Thank you, Mr. Sour. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and present them to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly According to Article 2 of the Law on Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey No. 3620, İstanbul MP Mohammed Cetin has been announced by the Justice and Development Party Group's Presidency and has been presented to the information of İstanbul MP Mehmet Mus. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly An official visit from the Kosovo Parliament's Environment and Area Planning Commission and a team of members of the Human Rights Commission on February 26, 1 March 2014, as a guest of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Parliament, was met with the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Council of Ministers, dated 24/02/2013, and according to Decision 66. The visit of the delegation to our country is submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of the Law on Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/03/1990 and 3620. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, our disabled citizens make up about 12.29 of the total population -- 8.5 million. To date, effective and permanent measures have not been taken to address the problems of our citizens in different apology groups. The problems that our disabled are experiencing are increasing day by day. In particular, the problem of employment for disabled citizens is that even though the lack of physical conditions is constantly expressed for them to join society, serious steps are not taken to resolve it. We propose and propose the opening of parliamentary research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98th, and TBM Interior, in order to determine the problems that our disabled are experiencing, to take effective and permanent measures to resolve them. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 3) Mehmet Ali Sesame [[İzmir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Eskişehir]] 12) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Adana]] 15) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 16) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 17) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Bolu]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 24) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 25) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Aydın]] In our country, our disabled citizens make up 12.29 of the total population (about 8.5 million). To date, effective and permanent measures have not been taken to address the problems of our citizens in different apology groups. The problems our disabled people face are increasing day by day, especially when serious steps are not taken on employment, which is the biggest problem of our disabled citizens. In fact, the civil servants and labor staff that are in the hands of the people and the disabled are not even being filled. Legal regulations on disabled persons guarantee that the disabled will receive vocational rehabilitation services in order to improve their social and economic well-being, in order to be trained, professional, and efficient. However, problems continue in practice. The disabled, unable to work, are granted a monthly welfare allowance of 225,17-337.75 under Act 2022. This is not enough for our disabled citizens to live their lives in a way that suits human dignity and dignity and to provide for their minimum basic needs. A person who receives $225.17 in poverty allowance is not given home care allowance if he is in need of care. One of the biggest problems of our disabled is unemployment, as in all parts of society. Although there are legal obligations to the employment of disabled persons, the problem remains. According to Article 53 of the 657 State Officers Act, 4 per cent of this number must be employed as disabled personnel. This means the employment of 51,000 disabled citizens in public official status. In other words, civil servants and workers who should be used to the disabled have been left empty according to Law 4857 and State Officers Act 657. It's a rule of law that's been passed on to our disabled citizens. The disabled make up the society that needs health care the most. Why is it that when the income of these citizens is extremely limited and the problems they face are known, the disabled receive medical, medical supplies, surgery, and a contribution to treatment? How will these people pay for their contribution when they can't find resources for a living? Medical aid tools, such as wheelchairs, hearing aids, and equipment that facilitate the lives of disabled persons, are underpaid by the Social Security Agency. The health board reports are arbitraryly evaluated by the Finance Ministry, limiting the income tax reduction of disabled citizens and pension rights. In 1997, construction of structures was mandatory in accordance with the disabled. In 2005, Absorbs Act 5318 was issued under the order of Article 2 of the Interim Law. He commands that public spaces, buildings and even public transportation be made available to the disabled within seven years. The deadline expires in July 2012. The disabled face obstacles in all areas of urban life. Bus, sub and overpasses, many public institutions are not suitable for the use of our disabled, and no concrete steps are taken in the matter. The issues mentioned briefly above are just a few headlines about the problems our disabled citizens have to face. It would be appropriate and appropriate for our disabled citizens to establish a research commission to take effective and permanent measures to address their problems. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly For the Crimea Congo Bleed Fire cases, I demand and demand that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98th, and Interior Charter 105 to be revealed in all aspects of the real dimensions of the disease. A tick is a bloodsucker and an eyeless external parasite. Especially migratory birds are known to spread disease. A man, a sheep, a dog, a cat, and a camel suck their blood from the skins of creatures. In public, this parasite is known as a tick. Our country has a geographically appropriate structure for ticks to live on. In particular, it is a disease caused by increasing in the spring-summer period by the RNA virus that infects humans from ticks into the body. These ticks can appear from picnic sites to forests, fields, and anywhere but these areas. It appears that the disease can usually occur in 1-3 days after being bitten. The disease has been seen in Africa, Asia, the Middle East and Eastern Europe, while in recent years it has emerged in single cases in Kosovo, Albania, Iran and Pakistan. He was first seen in Crimea in 1944 and in the Congo in 1956. For this reason, the Crimean Congo Bleeding Fire has passed on to the world's medical literature. The disease, which was first seen in Turkey in 2002, alerts us during the summer. People found in the countryside are required to be informed about picnics, fish or land hunting, work, or, for some other reason, being bitten by ticks. Furthermore, close contact with livestock risks becoming infected with ticks. In the Central Anatolian and Central Black Sea Region, especially the Kelkit Valley, the Silver House, Tokat, Sivas, Amasya, Chorum, Yozgat, Castamon, Karabuk, and Çankır are seen in the provinces. Over the years, cases of ticks include 150 cases in 2002-2003, 6 deaths in 2004, 249 cases in 2004, 13 deaths in 2005, 266 in 2005, and 13 deaths in 2006, 438 in 2006, death rate in 27; and a major increase in 2007-2008. The number of cases reached 717 in 2007 rose to 1,315 in 2008. 33 people died in 2007, while 135 people died in 2008. Contrary to the fact that, according to scientists' research, the disease was not noticed because it had existed in the past, but because it had appeared in a few cases, it was suddenly discovered when many cases appeared. In the emergence of such outbreaks, it's always about the increase in the number of ticks carrying the virus and the wild animal. The number of wild animals is increasing in Turkey, where there is an unremarkable ecological regeneration, both forestry and spontaneously emerging areas. Cases that cause fear and anxiety by biting ticks continue to result in deaths, causing unrest in every part of society. On the one hand, it endangers the safety of the people, but it also affects our economy. In the 21st century, it is the shame of our country that our people can still die because of ticks, that we cannot be protected from this disease. For the Crimea Congo bleeding fires, public awareness must be revealed in all aspects of the actual dimensions of the disease. The public needs to be saved from fear, anxiety, and panic, while measures and solutions need to be taken. In the country, protection from ticks and the complete removal of ticks must be taken. It is useful to establish a research commission in order to investigate the problem with all its dimensions, take precautions, take measures, and determine the policies to be carried out. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the last decade, we would like to open and request a Parliamental inquiry under the 98th and 105th Articles of the Constitution, which has been increasingly inclined to increase and violate the freedom of thought and expression of individuals and under the conditions of detention under which these sanctions are the most important precision of the country's agenda. The state's reason for existence is to establish a legal order in which the rights society is valid. However, constitutional expansion or progress regarding rights and freedoms are clearly observed, as is not seen in the law, in violation of the Constitution and human rights principles and contradictions. The removal of DGMs was a crucial step in providing the right to a fair trial. In contrast, the establishment of special authorities courts instead violates the principle of natural judges and the right to a fair trial, as opposed to the Constitution. However, the Articles of the Turkish Penal Code, 215, 216, 217, 220/6, 7th and 8th Vesairs, have very important regulations limiting that area of rights in the Article 2911. These regulations have been in the way of freedom of expression and have become clear proof of the situation of increased imprisonment and detention. In the last year, 3,151 people have been arrested and 8,575 people have been taken into custody. As part of the operations conducted on April 14, 2009, more than 7,000 people, members, voters, or sympathizers, have been arrested. We have five arrested MPs, 32 mayors from local municipalities, 15 mayors, 93 city council members, 13 general council members, 35 members of the party assembly, 10 MYK members, 10 MYK members, more than 200 party executives, and dozens of lawyers, journalists, academics, journalists, writers, students, human rights advocates, unionists, arrested. This painting destroys faith in a democratic society beyond despair. What took place in the general elections on 12 June 2011 meant that the public's will, even though Hatip Dicle used to become a member of parliament, was to be demoted, the continued arrests of lawmakers appointed to him by thousands of people, were to be ignored in essence by the will of the people. In particular, the lack of the will of the people in these days, when the new constitutional process is matured, the fact that a Parliament is conducting this process undermines the grounds of legitimacy. These issues we've explained are relevant to the country's mood and reflexes, and are important to a large part of society. Because the votes of the people's will have been cast behind prison bars, the cornerstones of democracy have been moved. Therefore, it is necessary to request a parliamentary investigation in order to clarify the situation of arrested lawmakers, who constitute human rights violations against rights demands and the most important example of this. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission also has one membership for lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. It is Monday (March 3rd 2014) at 18 p.m. of non-political party members who want to run for office. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. Now, there is another review of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I'm going to make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation of members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Foreign Affairs Commission is scheduled to make an official visit to Japan with the invitation of the Foreign Relations Commission of the Japanese Parliament. The visit of the delegation to Japan is submitted to the General Assembly's approval under Article 6 of the Law on Ordering Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Y O L A M A
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0037par0267	There's enough for a meeting...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0036par0268	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Illum, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Öğütüş, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Öner, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Kütürk, Mr. Bilgehan, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Köse, Mr. Köse, Mr. Mr. Young, Mr. Haberal. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Mr. Oğuz Khan Koksal? Here. Mr. Muzaffer Chaker? No. Mr. Salim Nice? Here. Mr. Gizzrü Ayalan? Here. Mr. Gürsoy Erol? Here. That way, we'll have enough of a meeting. I submit the presidential statement to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/1089) I respectfully submit that my main Law Proposal (2/1089) should be brought directly to the agenda according to Article 37 of the Civil Code. Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan as the bidder. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0038par0287	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to Artvin Province, Hopa County, to the district of Kemalpaşa, on the proposal of the law made by me and 50 of our friends. I salute your high council. The honorable MPs, Kemalpaşa, are one of our lovely towns, which is by the sea, between Hoppa and Sarp. We are a lovely town in the history process, which hosted civilizations for many years, followed by the Brest-Litovsk Agreement on 31 March 1918, which was abandoned by the Russians, joined the national borders on March 14, 1921, followed by the district of Hopa, Artvin, in 1936. Fifty-one years, followed by a decision made by the Council of Ministers in 1987, a decision is being made to make this place a municipality, and in 1989 the town will have a municipality. My dear friends, for those of you who can't see Kemalpaşa, Kemalpaşa is one of our cutest cities at the far end of the East Black Sea, with a population of 8,664. About 5,600 people in the town center, 3,400-3 in the villages. It's a really cute place where about 500 of our citizens, our citizens, live. In summer, the population -- these populations do not remain stable -- comes to a population that can be based on 15,000 to 20,000 people. There are all kinds of public institutions in Kemalpaşa, my dear friends. Look, there's a tea factory where 220 people work, there's four elementary schools, there's a multi-program high school, there's a Gendarme Command outside the tea factory, there's a regional traffic station, there's a TELEKOM, there's a PTT center, there's all kinds of public enterprises. If you see the county center, if you see the town hall, you'll see that what I'm saying is true. Other than that, we have a municipality that was founded in 1989 -- which has worked very well today -- and I thank Yalçın Emiralioğlu (now) for his work. I mean, there's all the infrastructure that's needed to make this town a county. Other than that, there's an AVM with an economically closed space of 12,000 square meters, they have hotels, over 750, and they only sell textile-related stores. Other than that, we've got a really important city that's become a tourist destination. This town has been dying to be a county for years, my dear friends. Although there have been some very serious studies, unfortunately, no steps have been taken and no progress has been made so far. There's tea agriculture, tourism, rafting, trekking, all nature tourism, all kinds of infrastructure, economic improvements. We believe Kemalpaşa is seriously deserving of this. My dear friends, Kemalpaşa, the name of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Pasha, is named after the leader of our national Liberation War by theban of our republic. And in that sense, it's of special importance. A mile and a half from the gate of Sarp, which is very near to Hopa. On the other hand, the East Bloc -- I don't want to say the East Bloc -- is the focus of tourists from Georgia, from other countries. It's a place where 6 million tourists go in and out a year, close to 500,000 trucks go in and out of. Sarp customs also includes Kemalpaşa's borders as an asylum seeker. Therefore, the lack of a county in any way, the lack of a trustee here, the lack of security, health, other aspects, is causing serious shortcomings. Therefore, it would be wise for this town to gain county status as soon as possible. My dear friends, I believe that on behalf of the opposition, as opposition, as Republican People's Party, we have signed 50 MPs under it. I believe that the MHP Group, the other group, will vote on it, but I would like to share one thing with you: Dear AKP MPs, this is the poster that your candidate in Kemalpaşa used in his election campaign. It says: First Service, Target: County. If your candidate Kemalpaşa is telling the truth, please vote for the AKP Group and for Kemalpaşa candidate to be the district of Kemalpaşa. If your candidate Kemalpaşa is misleading the public, I have nothing to say about it. In a few moments, Hanya and Iconium will be revealed. In that sense, Kemalpaşa is very important and deserves county status. It has all the infrastructure necessary to become a county, all the conditions. My dear friends, I've known Kemalpaşa for years, I've been going for years. The people of Kemalpaşa will not be servants of the Black Sea. They are a revolutionary people who have enough independence to say, "I am free." I know all the Kemalpaşas; go to their rooms, go to their rooms, go to their bedrooms; none of them have money counting machines in their homes, in their bedrooms; there are no dollars; there are no euros in their shoeboxes; but do you know what you find in the Kamalpaşas' homes? You will find photographs of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, leader of our National Liberation War. With these thoughts, I hope you will support our proposal of the law, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0039par0300	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Bursa MP Ilhan Demiröz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0040par0304	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge in the law proposal that the town of Artvin Hopa Kemalpaşa be a district. I salute you all with respect and love. Yes, I'm the Fellowship Member, but I was born Artvin, and I'm fed up of it, Bursa. The first thing that came to mind when I first met the sea with my family in my elementary school years was Artvin County of Hopa, Kemalpaşa. In that regard, I would like to speak of Kemalpaşa's qualities in this way. And so I go on, reminiscing once again about my late father, who I was with at that time. Because, as a bad example to their children in the last few days, the more I see the father who introduced them to the billion dollars, 30,000 euros, the more I honor, the more I cherish my father once more, and once again I bow before him with respect. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There are towns, counties that don't fit in the shell. One of them is Artvin Hopa Kemalpaşa. He's got tourism, agriculture, trade, border crossings. I'm going to point out once again that it's very important, that you're really running for county. It is also important that Kemalpaşa, a shining shoreline bearing the name of the Great Leader Ataturk, is the district of Kemalpaşa. My dear Artvin Congressman friend told me that all his infrastructure was ready. I'd like to talk a little bit about tea in this town, tea farming. There are three central, private tea factories in the country. With the government's agricultural policy, tea -- the only source of livelihood in that region -- tea is now being imported from China, India. How do you say, "Chakur factories don't have the chance to work at full capacity." So they can only get 51 percent of the tea in that area, my friends. 49% should be taken by the private sector, but today the factories of ÇAYKUR are continuing with their habits, without any modernisation, without any transactions, and the only tea that has fallen on it since the past few years and has never been drugged is the tea that Rize and we grow in the Artvin region. I think that's something everyone should know about at every turn, but I'd like to say that the Department of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, which lacks it, unfortunately, has never focused on these issues. In 2012, it was $1.10 for tea, 12 cents for bonuses. They pay $1.20 in 2013 and 12 cents in bonuses. Despite this base price, the private sector here, as I just mentioned, buys the tea for 80 cents, 90 cents, and at this rate, special efforts will be made to end or end tea farming in that region. I strongly support the offer of my dear friend Kemalpaşa to be the county. I assume that you, our dear friends, will vote positively for this proposal, and that one day you will pass from Rize to Artvin. After a mile and a half past Hopa, you will take a break from the town of Kemalpaşa and taste those beautiful teas. I invite you to vote positively for our motion, and I offer you all my respect and love. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0041par0313	Thank you, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0042par0314	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit01spe0041par0315	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit02spe0041par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Artvin MP Uður Bayraktutan (2/1089) was not enough in the vote of the draft proposal for the adoption of the main Law Proposal (2/1089) directly according to Article 37 of the Civil Charter. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. Now, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move on to the part of the law bill and proposals and other tasks from the Commission. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. 2- State Secret Code Bill and European Union Compliance Commission and Justice Commission Reports (1/484) [[S. Number: 287]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the third place, Isparta MP Süziya Sadi Bilgiç and Bayburt MP Bünyamin Uzbek and 80 MPs; The Law Proposal on Making Changes in Some Laws; Cumhuriyet People's Party Group Chair Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi; The Law Proposal on Making Changes in Some Laws; the Law Commission on Compromises in Some Laws; We will continue to talk with Malatya MP Mahmut Mujahit Fiçılı and Mujahitlı MP Faruk Iş and 34 MPs; the Law Proposal on Making Changes in Some Laws; Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan's Committee on Making Changes in Some Laws; and the Computing Committee on Laws of Laws. The commission and the government are in place. Article 5/2/2014 of Article 5 was adopted in Article 91 of the Civil Code under Article 91 in the 66/2014 article. Now, we're going to discuss item six. There are three motions on the 6th article, which I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 6 of the 561 amendment of the proposed law shall be changed with the declaration specified in Article 6 of the law. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Altan Tan İbrahim Binci İdris Bauken Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 6 of the current law proposal. Until the decision to be determined by the Council of Ministers at the end of its Article comes into effect, the application of its testimony will be continued with the lowest limit until the joint decision determined by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Finance comes into effect. We request that it be replaced with the statement. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu İzzet Cetin Vahab Selects Mehmet Ali Sesam Balık Köse İlhan Demiröz Celal Dinçer Müslim Sarı Rahmi Love's Way Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and submit the amendment of the current law proposal 561 rows to the following form of Article 6 of the framework. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Lütfü Türkkan Adnan Şişek Güçük Article 6-2464 has been added to the following temporary clause. The first amendment of Article 21 (II), Article 56, Article 60 and Article 84 of Article 84, shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers until the second paragraph of Article 96 (A) shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers until the decision of the Council of Ministers shall be carried out in 2013. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit02spe0043par0043	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit02spe0041par0044	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit02spe0044par0045	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit02spe0041par0046	Mr. Tin Man, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit02spe0045par0048	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It was given to the Council of Ministers by Law 6487 after the Constitutional Court annulled the provisions of Law 2464, which gave municipal councils the authority to set tax and tuition timetables. The Council of Ministers, issued in the Official Gazette of December 18, 2013, has determined the timetable for the taxes and fees mentioned, but the Council of Ministers has raised some taxes and fees five times more cruelly, six times more. At a time when inflation was 7 per cent, sign tax, occupational tax, entertainment tax, week vacation increase by 500 per cent, 600 per cent of license fees, the fact that the AKP government had no measure left, almost lost consciousness. The AKP government has become Mad Dumrul and wants to shake down the tradesman and artist. On February 18, 2014, the Council of Ministers redefined the taxes and fees mentioned last week, based on its decision published in the Official Gazette. Now, the clause we're interviewing envisions the implementation of taxes and fees set by municipal councils for 2013. This provision has been reversed, and this clause clearly contradicts the Constitutional Court's grounds for a mistrial and the Constitutional Court. The AKP government has no idea what it wants to do. Seven months late, he makes a decision, two months later he changes that decision, and with this bill, he ignores those decisions and envisions the implementation of the city council's decision. If it's not incompetence, incompetence, or bullshit, what is it? It's happened to our business, to our industry, to our municipalities, to the tradesmen for no reason, to the tradesmen, to the markets, to the markets, and to the extent that the issue has not been solved legally again. The Justice and Development Party (AKP) has made new challenges in its place to address the problems of its tradesman and artist, and is based on its commitments. The AKP has pledged a legal arrangement to regulate the retail sector, but has broken its promise, subservient to foreign capital lobbying. The Prime Minister wanted to feed the tradesman and artist to these lobbys. In the last ten years, the number of malls has risen from 62 to 310, and has recently been expected to reach 368. The tradesman and our artist are in danger of extinction. He expects the commitments to be kept, the law to regulate the retail sector immediately. The tradesman and artist can't pay taxes and bonus debts, credit debts, and dues. The tax and bonus charges are expected to be reduced and to be made easier for debt that they cannot pay, and the bag of promises that have been made by keeping will also be given a clause for them. Employers and artists demand equality in social insurance practices. In this context, he wants them to be able to receive temporary incapacity allowances during sickness and standing treatment and to be able to lend birth to tradesmen and artists. Even though there are tax collectors and room records, the tradesman and artists are willing to consider their mandatory insurance period, which they can't account for because it's not registered or registered, by debting them to their service, so that they can retire. Traders and artists with lower pensions than those he employs and pays their premiums, ask why the law on initiative is being passed, and are waiting for the disparity between pension pensioners to be eliminated. Our already low-monthly-connected tradesman and artist rebel against cutting social security benefits out of pensions, paying heavy loans from past years because he worked as a pensioner, waiting for this practice to be lifted. May God have mercy on you, the late Nejmudtin Erbakan, in his speech before the 2002 elections, said that they would not be given the state, not even the leblebist shop. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit02spe0046par0058	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 6 of the current law proposal. Until the decision to be determined by the Council of Ministers at the end of its Article comes into effect, the application of its testimony will be continued with the lowest limit until the joint decision determined by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Finance comes into effect. We request that it be replaced with the statement. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit02spe0047par0065	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit02spe0046par0066	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit02spe0048par0067	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit02spe0046par0068	Mr. Yellowhead, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit02spe0049par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. High-value lawmakers, on the 6th article of the proposed bag number 561 of law, especially until the joint decision of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Finance is in effect, I have made the lowest limit of implementation. I have made a commitment to make a change, and I think it is in particular useful to enter into the agenda of dealing with injustice. Highly valued lawmakers have first come to the day, starting with the problems of our strawberry tradesman, starting with the problems of the tradesman who started sweeping around the day and the problems with the mortars, and are actually on the agenda of today's country and are on tape, telling his sons that their father would be a good example and their son's father's advice on their father's father, and speaking with his two ministers today, talks with his son on this matter came to the agenda. For him, I would like to say that there has never been such a government from when the Republic of Turkey was founded until now, in 12 years, when we look at the administration of such a government, no institution and no institution in Turkey has ever seen a form of governance that has been so badly ruled and thus has been corrupted from all sides in this form of governance. For him, it may be only with the resignation of the Prime Minister and the resignation of today's government that Turkey will turn over a new leaf and regain its value in the world. And in that sense, this government is not a legitimate government, and in that sense, we believe it would be right for our future generations to answer to the government to cover up their corruption as soon as possible, and to go to the prosecutors and testify in person. In this sense, after these statements, I would like to express with our strawberry tradesman that this law was annulled by the Constitutional Court in 2011. However, although it was cancelled, the Law on Law on Laws 2464 has always continued, including the 15th Amendment in this law, before municipalities were legalized in 2012 and 2013. This was re-opened in 2013, as well as not in accordance with the law and the Constitution, and was brought to the agenda by the Council of Ministers' decision in 2014. However, beyond that authority given to the municipalities here, the government has never changed its view of the tradesman, and when we look at the highest, like the highest, 60 liras, the highest limit, has taken the highest numbers of the law and continued to crush our business. Again, on February 18th, the same day, as the law of the Council of Ministers was published here, the same day, the same day, the bill was offered here, and the current law was brought here, again, on this second month, so that we could quickly correct it. I'd like to ask: When will the AKP government act in accordance with the Constitution? When... he violated the Constitution for two years, but until today, he came with this offer, and as the government, he came not as a bill, but as an offer of lawmakers. From here, the real important part of our tradesman's business in Turkey... was that in 2004 we had 2,850,000 tradesmen, and today the number was less than 1.5 million. For him, the only reason that our tradesman has run out of business in 2012 is because the AKP (AKP)'s approach, including those taxes, is that he manages it badly. I propose the implementation of lower limits, love and respect, so that our dying tradesman can get out of this as soon as possible.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit02spe0050par0076	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit02spe0051par0077	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit02spe0050par0078	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0050par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of Çanakkale MP Ali Sarıbaş and his friends on the 6th article of Law Proposal 561. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I'm going to do this with an electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough decisions, the motion is not accepted. We'll resume negotiations on the proposal of the law where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 6 of the 561 amendment of the proposed law shall be changed with the declaration specified in Article 6 of the law. Secrets Sakık (Muhs) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0052par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0050par0015	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0053par0016	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0050par0017	Mr. Tan, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0054par0019	Mr. President, Congressmans, I've come to your presence over and over again regarding this law on local governments. Many times I've expressed my opinion on this matter on behalf of myself and my party. Dear friends, when these laws first came to the House, we insisted that, please, this is not the kind of day, this is what you need, let's think properly, let's discuss, let's talk properly, let's discuss, let's do what the country needs, let's do a collective law arrangement on what the country needs, let's make these laws, and unfortunately, every time, the ruling party didn't evaluate our recommendations, our proposals, our proposals, and now, again, in this classic bag, there were ex-military graves in this old bag, just as this bag was filled with whatever it needed, let's just fill it up again, and fill it with a piece of material, but it's been filled with a local government, and it's been filled up with all over this stuff. And what's to be done here, no one knows what's plus or minus what's again. So we repeat our earlier reviews: please stop this form. This isn't the way he runs the country. If you bring what you need, not what you need, but what the country needs, maybe we'll be on the right track. Now, dear friends, we've said our objections over and over again about these local governments, especially about the taxes that are on today's substance. Logically, it's true, as a system, that the powers of the center are to be transferred to the ground, but you don't do that, you pretend you're handing them over to the ground, and yet, on the other hand, you add up with a large spoon and then you take back all the power under the table. In many cases, such as the absence of geothermal resources to local governments, such as the absence of mineral licenses, the co-ordinator governor's application, you are somehow taking all authority back to the center. Now, there are examples of this in the world in the tax issue. For example, in the United States of America, where the government is, where the state system is, and in many other countries of the world that are ruled in this way, local governments have the authority to place taxes within certain borders. They have the power to determine local incentives -- for example, when Kastamononu is a local city -- which is not a major city now, let's say -- a forestry city, a large industry -- should be able to download local taxes on this issue. Again, in a city of tourism -- that would be Antalya, that would be Marmaris, that would be the basement, that would be Urbana, that would be Diyarbakır, that would be Erzurum -- that he could download certain taxes, that he could provide incentives, that he could raise additional resources. Now, when you don't give these powers to the local authorities, once again, when you've determined all these rates and all these amounts from the centre, that local government is tied up again. So if you don't have the authority to create an opportunity to create a runt and return this output to the public, then in these local governments, as a classic tax officer there, as a bookmaster, as a property manager, in these economic issues, he has no authority over tax issues. The incentives are the same, and the zoning powers are the same. Like what did you do? The biggest talk in Turkey is zoning corruption! You've taken this zoning authority from the city's municipality, the capital city municipality, for example, at the Ministry of Transport, the Highways, State Railways, Privatisation Administration builds its own development, it builds its own runt. Well, then, what's his relationship to the integrity of the city? What's in it for the local government? It's all in front of us again as a bypassed, bypassed issue. It's a long talk, but I'm afraid we don't find the opportunity in this House. In this way, with these economic arrangements, local governments have no chance of getting anywhere. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0055par0027	Thank you, Mr. Tan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. Switching to item seven. There are three motions on the 7th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 7 of Law 561 be replaced by Article 7 of Article 7 of the proposed law. The secret is Yellow Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani İdris Baluken Sırrı Süryya Başal Altan Tan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of law proposal 561 in the framework of Article 7 shall be replaced by the purchases of goods, services, and services. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Lütfü Türkkan Adnan Şişek Güçük Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seven of the proposed law. Article 17. This law is used to finance the needed goods, services, and investments. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu İzzet Cetin Vahab Selects Mehmet Ali Sesam Balık Köse İlhan Demiröz Celal Dinçer Müslim Sarı Rahmi Love's Way Does the commission agree with my latest motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0056par0053	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0055par0054	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0057par0055	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0055par0056	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0058par0057	Ilhan Demiröz.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0055par0058	Mr. Irony. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0059par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we have made in Article 7 of Law Proposal 561. I salute you, our fellow citizens watching us on television, with respect and love. The income from the fields that are subject to this law is registered in the return capital of the Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs. Dear friends, you didn't leave a national park, you didn't leave a forest. After that, you're telling the return fund to transfer these. So I'm saying... 2/B is being discussed with the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs, so please stand up straight, and we'll support you, so don't transfer 90 percent to TOKI, to other institutions. But now I realize the Minister of Forestry and Waterworks is right, because fathers and children need money, they need dollars, they need greens. For him, these funds needed to be used for the forest were allowed to be used in other places, in TOKI. Dear friends, while we're talking about the forest, I'd like to share some thoughts on some issues related to 2/B. Yes, it's about 2/B, the bag bill, the necessary negotiations will be held later, but there's a problem in my area. This is also about the Law 2/B, which is declared a status area by the Protection of Natural Beings. Where are they? We have 21 villages: Cumazizik, Hamamazik, Ransom, Karayah, Mürssels, Küzpınar, Yiğitali, Dobruca, Demirkapi, Alacahırka, Mollafenari, Cricket, Traplı, Kirazlı, Inkaya, Süleymaniye, Husseinlan, Bonds, 75. Year, Piremir, Teferr3. Dear friends, the problem with our farmers here is that our friends here are entitled to land 2/B, ancestors, grandparents, and then to this law, to these areas that have lost the quality of the forest. They're applying, and they're giving away their file money, their $1,000, their $2,000. So what happens after that? No, my friends, when our concerned peasant citizens left, this was declared a site. Now, for example, one of our most beautiful villages, like our other villages, has been declared a 1,000 acres of the village of Yiğitali. Well, now, our citizens here are agitated. He says that one of our citizens: I have been in conflict with the forest, I have been in prison. For this area where I was locked up, I was going to buy it 2/B, and now it's a sitter. What am I going to do? They have another fear because these citizens, our citizens, our peasants, our farmers no longer trust this government. It says: there are some applications. Where do you have it? Urla's got it. Urla said, what were these areas? It was a site site. He says tomorrow, if these sites are removed from this area, if my 1,000 acres of 2/B area is removed from the site, how do we stop in this village? Yeah, that's right, our friends, our farm brothers. That's the situation in the 21-square village that I consider above. We're negotiating on this. We've got scholarship, dear friends, 11 MPs, we've got Deputy Prime Minister, but there's still no solution to... We're going to advise bag law on this, but we know you're going to be rejected. And from here, I complain to these friends of ours, these 21 villages, and once again, I want to present to you that they have not taken care of this matter. With these feelings, I salute you with respect and love, and I wish you a good day. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0060par0070	Thank you, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0061par0071	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0060par0072	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... I'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman We propose and propose that law proposal 561 in the current row shall be replaced by the purchases of goods, services and services in the box of Article 7 of the framework. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0062par0083	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0060par0084	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0063par0085	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0060par0086	Mr. Yilmaz, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0064par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received a pledge from you regarding the 7th amendment of Law Proposal 561. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, you remember these, don't you? There was this Maslak 1453. This stuff covers natural areas, national parks. Ali Agaoglu was testified during this December 17th investigation and was haggling in the Maslak forests. This was planned by the district office of environmental and urbanism, and it was open to construction, but as opposition lawmakers, we had to put this on the agenda and hold a press conference, and then on the agenda of the public, the Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs, Ali Agaoğlu, cancelled his permission, unfortunately, but it's not going to settle. Now there's a new problem. See, in Istanbul, a area called the "batarium" is rented by Serdar Bilgili to the Aegean Tourism and Real Estate Company for twenty-nine years. We don't say anything about the lease, but did Mr. Minister of Economics go to the forest in Istanbul? Don't look at it like it's money. It's the source of oxygen, it's the ecosystem, it's where insects, birds, trees. It has 2,000 times the financial income, 20,000 times the functional value, 200,000 times the functional value. You can't measure an oxygen with money. But today, it's the same practice that happened to Ali Agaoglu in Maslak. Unfortunately, it's held in the park of nature. What's going on there? Look, there's a zoning plan going on there. According to this zoning plan, under the guise of nature parks, 70000 people are being built here in a capacity entertainment center, restaurants, pools, stadiums and a number of structures. What is this place, dear friends? What do you need it for? You've already ruined Istanbul's skylines, the mall you haven't already done to Istanbul. Look, get out, the buildings are going up to the sky, layer by layer. Now, what do you want from these sparse forests in Istanbul? What reason could there be for opening up these forests, opening up these buildings, because someone was going to make money? How's that for jungle love? When the Prime Minister opens his mouth, he says, "I don't know how many billion saplings I've planted." Stop planting the saplings and protect these existing forests with their structures. But we're really having a hard time understanding this concept of yours. I mean, Istanbul is a place today with a population of 16 to 17 million people, where stress is intense, air is difficult, living conditions are difficult. If we can't protect the forest areas we have here, if we can't protect our national parks, if we can't protect our natural parks, we'll be betraying our future, betraying our children. I don't think these should be allowed. Now, we're dealing with the same practice here. Why are you renting for 29 years? What's the matter, you get $1 million a year, $2 million a year, you don't get it. I'm speaking to the government: let him walk 16 million Istanbulers there, let him have his air, but you've given it to Serdar Bilgili, where there will be a pay-per-view structure, where you'll build with a number of zoning planning, with a number of construction arrangements, and you'll destroy the existence of the forest. You've made a habit of it, precious MPs. Although, whatever we say, you're already sitting on the forest grounds as the Justice and Development Party headquarters. You haven't even answered that yet, even though I've said it over and over again. Right now, even the parking lot of your Justice and Development Party headquarters is forest land. After we said that -- there had to be a certain amount of green space to get a license there -- even when you were getting your license on behalf of the Justice and Development Party, you showed it in green. Now, I hear -- we talked about these -- they found legal cover here -- they traded with the city; Ankara Metropolitan Municipality gave the forest a place, so they made a trade, and still, right now, your park is in the area of the Metropolitan Municipality, which is green. That's where your concern for green comes from. Another thing is the Veteran compound. In one night, you turned the place of the forestmen's sweat into a place of 100-year-old trees from the first degree to the third degree, where there are trees at the age of 10. You reported. How did you turn it into sites? In Urla, you have the same understanding when you convert the 1st-degree area of the Prime Minister's villas into the 3rd-degree area. With that understanding, you're taking this nation's property. Hopefully, they'll all be accounted for one by one. There's no way out of this. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0065par0096	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 7 of Law 561 be replaced by Article 7 of Article 7 of the proposed law. Secrets Sakık (Muhs) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0066par0103	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0065par0104	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0067par0105	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0065par0106	Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0068par0107	Guys, I've never seen Congress so depressed. Today, in this article, when it comes to parks, I'd say national and natural parks, let's not do politics. Let me read a few things: For centuries, this endless sky that has shed tears of mercy upon my people can be covered with clouds tomorrow. My words are like stars that never move. We wonder how you can buy or sell the sky and the temperature of the earth. It's hard for us to understand. Every part of this land is sacred to my people. The glowing needles of pine trees, the buzzing insects, the white beach beaches, the mist covering dark forests and meadows in the morning, are part of the memories of my people and hundreds of years of experiments. Water that flows through the veins of trees in the forest carries the memory of our ancestors, and we believe it. Yes, there's no need to say too much to protect the natural parks and national parks. Of course, I'd like to go from here to a proverb. And that's the way it's said:.................................. and...................................................................................................... he says Nazimsay said Nazim a say Nazim and Nazim. and Nazim and Nazim and Nazimim....... and Nazim...... say:::::::::: We're competing for ourselves, my dear. Either we take life to dead stars, What if death were to descend into our world, The most beautiful sea is the one that hasn't been there yet, The most beautiful child hasn't grown up yet, Our best days are the ones we haven't had yet. Yes, these are the words that you see, each of them in a different language, culture; some in a letter from the Seattle chief; some in Kurdish proverbs; some in fact in Dilbere, some in fact, in order to define nature very well,......... to translate this; other than translating, we need stenographers who know Kurdish, but if they come to me, I want to remind them backstage of the words of Feqiye Teyran, as they go through the words of Ey Dilbere. Indeed, the principle of eye-to-eye has forced the world to fight wars, first, second world wars, and today. Some of these words are about nature, some of them are about bonds, some of them are about the environment, some of them are about the environment, but it's true that Turkey is one of the countries that is a world-threatening poor when Turkey is hit by a square meter account of areas that can be held as a handful of natural parks and national parks. And so we say, whether we want to protect nature, protect the forest, protect the national parks, let it flow naturally. We're an environmentalist party who thinks it should be invested in a lot more, not in a profit broker, not in return capital. We're sensitive about it. That's our word, too. That's our motion. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0069par0118	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 7th article is accepted. We're moving on to item eight. There are three motions on Article 8 of the same nature, which I will have read and process together. I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the removal of Article 8 of Law 561, which is currently in session. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Assat Canan Alvan Tan İdris Bauken Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 8th time you've proposed the law. We request that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu İzzet Cetin Vahab Selects Mehmet Ali Sesame Tutor Köse Kamer Young Celal Dinçer Müslim Sarı İlhan Demiröz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that Section 8 of Law 561 be removed from the bidding text of Article 8 of the framework. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Lütfü Türkkan Adnan Şişek Güçük Does the commission agree with these proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0070par0147	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0069par0148	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0071par0149	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0069par0150	Nationalist Movement Party first. Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0072par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, I'm afraid there's been another special arrangement in this article. During the Justice and Development Party administrations, we are tired of counting the arrangements made in the Public Contraction Law, the State Contraction Law. Which brings me to another arrangement. Of course, our friends say it's -- it's a simple -- it's about the ATM or the stuff that's being rented from the National Real Estate, because of the negligence of the branch managers. Well, under the circumstances, I don't...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0073par0156	Mr. President, you've read two motions without having three motions read and then put them in motion.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0074par0157	Mr. Young, it's all read because it's the same thing.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0073par0158	It's not the same. You'll read three motions. The motions of the same nature...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0074par0159	Mr. Young, the necessary thing has been done.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0075par0160	There's a lot on this side, I'm actually waiting for them. The guys were talking in the back.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0074par0161	Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0075par0162	Mr. President, I've heard a bit of noise on this side. If you interfere... Guys, now, I guess, roll call...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0074par0164	Go ahead, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0075par0165	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0074par0166	Congressmans, I'm tired of warning you, and you're not tired of talking. Please, quiet, please. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0075par0168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The regulations in these tender legislation, unfortunately, are the AKP classics, my friends. You know what we're doing here? At that moment, we're here to clear the law of the negligence done by representatives of relevant agencies who didn't renew their contract. This isn't a place to clean up someone's negligence, no matter how well-meaning it is. What about the other depositors? We're not the ones who have to pay for this. What is it, sir? They can't enter the tenders. Well, if he can't get in, then he's gonna call his handler, and that agency's gonna pay for it in its own way. If he doesn't know it's like this, he's not gonna hire his manager, his agent, that deputy. Now, we're breaking the generality of the law here. It's right here in the substance. I looked at the joke on Article 83, and it says here that they should be banned from a lot of tenders. It says here, dear friends, that if you lift this, he can't attend for a year. And if he disagrees, why do we assume responsibility as Congress? Even if that institution is a private legal person, if it's the representative or the branch manager, whatever it is, whoever didn't do it, we're here in Congress... it's not the place to solve everyone's problems. Now our friends are meeting upstairs. I couldn't get out. Our friend, the CHP representative, has left with our esteemed Commissioner. There are exchanges, there's a problem with the mortgages they took from the bank. We told them: "Let's not solve you by law. " The Bank Association is now talking to friends upstairs. So why are we doing this with the law on the branch managers of these friends, Mr. Secretary? Don't the law have a generality? You're a lawyer. I'm speaking to you as a member of the Cabinet.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0076par0172	He's got an ally, he's got an ally.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0075par0173	It's a private arrangement. There's a victim of 40,000 families involved in misinformation by banks. There are good people, and we still tell them that we all, you agree on this, we don't make legal arrangements. What's this? So this is from national real estate, you know, where they rent an ATM, rent a buffet. So let's just drop it. Look, my dear friends, we've made it impossible to get out of this contract law by putting in such constant patchages, supplements, exceptions, exemptions. I'll tell you another example: you don't ban tenders from being banned. I also gave an example upstairs, in the province of Antalya, where I was a representative, the privatisation of TEDAS was made. From the contract that bought $1.1 billion, after the contract that had to be made, he broke the contract, burned the tender guarantee, then turned around, retried -- how is it, I don't understand -- half price, 550 million, 1.1 billion. We're doing something similar here. We don't care whose size, the smaller, the bigger, the criminal, whose negligence it is. There's a generality of the law. He burned his warranty when you shouldn't have put it in the tender. Well, if I knew I'd get it for half the price, I'd burn it for 40 or 50 million, I'd re-enter it, I'd give me 50 million if I had 500 million. There's nothing wrong with that. It's the same company, guys. We're coming here now, sir... they say the bank manager forgot, he renewed his ATM contract, so don't let this bank enter any other tenders... E, it's not our job. He'll find the person responsible, and he'll do the same with the manager, with his agent. Let's stop making private arrangements. We see what's in the tenders. That's why I'm giving you my regards, to call it off.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0077par0178	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0078par0179	Thank you, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0077par0180	Mr. President, you did the procedure wrong. Look, the motions are all read according to the order of the arrival, and then they're processed according to the order of the anomaly. You've read two motions, you haven't read our motion. Now you're going to read three of the motions, and you're going to process them according to the order of the anomaly.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0078par0181	There's no line of discrimination here, sir. I'm doing the same motion.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0077par0182	Sir, I understand you didn't make us read the motion. You didn't make me read our motion.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0078par0183	We read the signatures, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0077par0184	Oh, no, sir, you haven't read our motion. You'll read our motion, then you'll file the motions. That's the way it is, sir. Ask the officers here if you don't know.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0078par0185	Yes, I will, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0077par0186	Well, that's the problem, then.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0078par0187	Who will speak for the Republican People's Party now, sir?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0079par0188	Mr. Kamer Young.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0078par0189	Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0080par0190	Sir, you can't get the motion read without having it read. No, it's wrong. Mr. President, that's the way it is.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0078par0192	Mr. Young, I didn't make you read it because it's the same thing.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0080par0193	Sir, it'll be the same thing, it'll be different, you'll have to read all the motions first. And then you're going to process the motions that are the same. Ask the officers over there, that's the way it is.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0078par0194	Are you going to talk now, as a motion holder? Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0080par0195	I will, but you haven't read our motion.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0078par0196	We've read it before, sir. Please come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0081par0199	Kamer, put the lamp down, Kamer.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0082par0200	Yeah, justice's over in the country, justice's over. We're gonna have to look for justice.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0083par0201	He's dusted like you are now.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0084par0202	Here you go, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0082par0203	Now, Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken our word on the motion that Article 8 of this Law Proposal 561 be removed from the draft text. My respects to all of you. Now, here, you have brought a law that is so irrational that you say: "What is this general rule of Turkey?" Is it in half-city, one-third-of-a-kind provinces, or what? Now, of course, I know because I'm a judge at the D.A.'s office. Only when we go to trial, it can be... I mean, what's happening across Turkey? Why do you give the right to corporate people and not special people? Because of the mistakes that their representatives have made, you are removing the ban from the tender by paying three times the price of the tender. This is a restraining order from you, I think, a relative of Mr. Recep Tayyip, or a relative of one of these ministers, in a tender, which you have brought to remove. It's not a substance like that, it's an impossible substance to apply. Think about it. The guy who got into a $100 billion bid, he broke out, he's gonna pay $300 billion, and the bidding's gonna go away. It doesn't make any sense. Now, look, I'm giving a recommendation to the ruling party: guys, look, we've been in this Parliament for years. Don't leave us here every day, sir, to talk about theft, corruption, robbery. And we want to talk to the nice people when we're on the leg of Parliament, respect people, do it in courtesy, but, friends, the ruling party doesn't give us that chance. See, now, Mr. Recep says that the money found in the house of the Governor-General of the People's Bank is not the money of the state. So why did you give this money to the General Manager of the People's Bank? The People's Bank -- I'm speaking from the KIT report -- lent $575 million to one trader and went bankrupt. Give me the $575 million loan, and I'll give you your $300 million to the bank manager who gave it to me. So, guys, this is bank money. Also, now, Mr. Recep is talking to his son. Did you reset the money in the house? Reset. He says, "Ya, Dad, I followed your instructions, but there's 30 million euros left." Now, the, uh, reset... okay, guys, look, these are really embarrassing things. Son, did you reset the money in the house? I sent it to some places, according to your instructions, but there's 30 million euros left, so we're giving it to you at work. I'm personally ashamed to go out here every day and talk about theft, corruption, because I respect people, but you figure it out amongst yourselves. Friends, the Prime Minister's office is now empty. In corruption... if it's really wrong, let's set up a research commission, look at those audio recordings, if they're really wrong, fine. Now, the minister says that here is audio recordings obtained by illegal means, not by illegal means, gentlemen, so the essence of the matter is what's important.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0085par0210	Are they legal? Are they legal? For God's sake...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0082par0211	As far as I can see, the son of Recep Erdogan has wiretaps. When he had the wiretaps, the D.A.'s records were bugged, so after that, he listened to him talking to his father. No more illegal rest here. Besides, he's the judge, and I condemn those prosecutors. Well, in talks with so many of Erdogan's sons, there are no more friends there, there are no more safes, there are money in the warehouses, all the money in Turkey, in the warehouses of Bey.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0086par0212	Holy shit!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0082par0213	So, if they'd gone in there right away and intervened with the police and raided those warehouses -- like, you know, the vaults at the Home Minister's house, like $4.5 billion in the House of the General Manager of the People's Bank -- if they had printed the son of Mr. Recep, then maybe they would have found money in the warehouses around a few quadrillion. But they neglected their duties because they didn't do those things either. I think they need to be investigated; it's out in the open, and it says: "After that, we put this much here. He's giving $10 million to someone named Tunç. I don't know, someone...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0087par0214	Lies, lies, lies.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0082par0215	If it's a lie, if it's a lie, if it's a friend, if it's a lie, I'd be as happy as you are.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0088par0216	How did you know it was a lie, and you work together?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0082par0217	Indeed, if these matters are false, if they come out, I would be as pleased as you are. Because we don't want the person in the position of Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey to be accused of corruption, theft, that's not gonna happen, guys. This state won't survive. And I'm asking you to take us out every day and say these things on the podium... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's make sure we don't listen to this, guys. You did it at the Lighthouse, you did it on December 17th, and I'm ashamed, so be ashamed!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0089par0221	Look, I'm not gonna answer either. What happened to you today, it was good, it was good, it was nothing?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0082par0222	Yeah, I invited you to be honest.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0089par0223	Something happened when you picked up the flashlight.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0090par0224	Thank you. Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0091par0227	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Yeah, well, I'm not going to share much of this stuff with you because we're not interested in contracts or anything. Yes, indeed, we also know what kind of consensus you provided with the opposition party earlier in this country and how you arranged for tenders. Now we really don't have much of a problem with that. When we say that, the media, from time to time, will pick up the words with tweezers and make a story of themselves. Now, I'd like to inform Parliament of another issue: We travel several times every week, we pass through the VIP, but what I see is what kind of third-world country this country really is. There are ministers coming in all over with a guard army, former ministers coming in with a guard army, lawmakers coming in with a guard army, mayors coming in with a bodyguard army. Now, I came from Istanbul last night. I'm here, former Interior Minister Idris Naim Şahin is at the airport, and I landed, with an army of 20-25, BMW on one side, Audi on one side, a few vehicles. Brother, what is this army? Is this country your father's farm? Who are you afraid of? Look, we're the opponents of this country, we're on the street, we're in opposition every day, and we have no protection, no guarantees. Who are you afraid of? Who gives you that right when you're in the ministry for three days? He's not enough, he's in the General Assembly, he's in the halls, we're looking, the MPs, the ministers, with the protection army, as if he conquered the world... Brother, tomorrow the day after tomorrow this mission will be over. Who are you afraid of in this General Assembly, who are you afraid of in the halls? Who are you afraid of in the VIP? Melih kyxek is coming, he's terrorizing with dozens of guards. You get on a plane... a citizen comes on a plane, gets on a plane, next to me, looks down on us like that. So, who's this, this guy from the Joint Chiefs, this guy from the deep government, what the hell? We got off in Istanbul, and I wondered, and I went, and he took his gun, and he put the bullet in front of him. I asked, who's this? By God, it was the Prime Minister's bodyguard. Brother, what privilege, what terror? The officers from the VIP over there turned to me and said: "Look, Congressman, we are officers of the state, and these are officers of the government. He uses this VIP, he's treated like a VIP, and he looks down on us from here. He's not just looking down on the security forces there, he's looking down on the MP, he's looking at us, and then I looked down on him, and, yes... they said he's the president's bodyguard first. I called the head guard of the presidency, and we don't have one. Do you, in this country, really think this country is your father's farm? When you do a three-day ministry, someone will protect you for the rest of your life, five or six government vehicles will protect you? We have friends who've been in the ministry for three days. So what, this reign of yours is gonna last forever? I'm asking you, from all the MPs and ministers with protection here, as a whole, from former MPs to former ministers, in this Parliament, to stop this terror of protection. We can't stand it. We don't find these practices outside the General Assembly very moral, in democratic societies, in countries, there's no place for them. Put an end to this protection terror. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0092par0236	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. I would like to submit these three motions to your votes, all in favor of...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0093par0238	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0092par0239	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who don't agree... I'll do it with an electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's enough to make a decision. The motions are not accepted. I will submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article is accepted. We're moving on to item nine. There are still three motions on the 9th article, which I'll have you read and process together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the removal of Article 9 of Law 561, which is currently in session. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Nine of the proposed law. We request that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu İzzet Cetin Vahab Selects Mehmet Ali Sesam Balık Köse İlhan Demiröz Celal Dinçer Müslim Sarı Rahmi Love's Way Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Section 9 be removed from the bidding text of law proposal 561 by meeting. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Lütfü Türkkan Adnan Şişek Güçük Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0094par0271	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0092par0272	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0095par0273	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0092par0274	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0096par0276	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 9th Amendment, and I salute you all. Dear friends, why would a government change the 175 per cent of the Public Contracts Act, Law No. 2886, Law of Public Contracts, and the Law of Public Contracts during 12 years of government power? This question is important, but it can't be answered by the power, and the power can't answer it. Why is there immunity for public tenders on 64 issues? Now, there are two other provisions related to the Public Contraction Act, and there are regulations. Those who are banned from the tender are being freed from this ban and in a very irrational way. These changes have one goal: to pursue public tenders against the allies, dear friends, and no other purpose. In no time in history, no government has ever been more corrupt than the AKP's power. On December 17th-25, corruption and bribery operations, Mr. Prime Minister's phone calls with his son fell on the agenda of the public last night. Now, get out of it, that's a new generation. It's also been spoken of over the years by the Prime Minister's Swiss bank accounts, and we call them. However, it seems that Mr. Erdogan is talking about the billion dollars in his home, in his warehouses, and the euros, let alone the bank. The Prime Minister has conducted operations on December 17th to 25th with foreign forces and gangs. He is trying to cover up corruption by calling it "The Foreign Forces." What did former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar say? The Prime Minister ordered it, and I did it. The phone calls between Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Bilal Erdogan and the indirect statements confirm that. Dear friends, if I go astray, point me with your swords. So the Muslim cannot remain passive in the face of error and injustice. Mr. Prime Minister Erdogan knows no limits in dictatorship, oppression. Whatever the Prime Minister said, you always said, "Long live as a group."
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0097par0279	Exactly. Long live...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0096par0280	Again, Mr. Prime Minister... And keep saying that again. Laws are being issued to protect those who have violated the rights of 77 million people, to protect those who have committed corruption, and you go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Now, I ask you, how are you going to account for the rights of 77 million people in Armageddon? Why are you silent about all this injustice? Now, let's keep the law on one side for now. In the 179th verse of the Purgatory, let us see what God says: "We have created many jinns and men for Hell. They have hearts with which they do not understand. They have eyes with which they do not see.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0098par0283	That's you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0096par0284	They have ears, they do not hear with them. They are like cattle. In fact, they're even more confused. It is they who are the heedless.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0098par0285	He's describing you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0096par0286	And the poet says: Masters, you're hungry, so it's obvious. Eat, and if you don't eat, who knows if he'll stay today or tomorrow? Soy, sop, honor, vanity, play, wedding, mansion, palace All yours, masters, palace, palace, come, regiment It's all yours, it's all yours, it's ready, it's easy Eat, my lords, eat, this pleasant meal is yours. When you are satisfied, eat until it is full. ♪ The poor country will give you what it's got ♪ Your body, your life, your hope, your dream All the peace, all the joy of your heart Swallow it, and do not think, its unlawfulness, its ruin, Eat, my lords, eat, this pleasant meal is yours. When you are satisfied, eat until it is full.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0099par0301	Thank you, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0100par0302	Lies and slander!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0099par0303	Mr. Köse, please.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0101par0305	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, there's a sweet rush in our House. We've been working since December 17th. We've recently taken out the HSYK, we've passed a law again under the name of the democratization package, which includes your anti-fascist measures, the Internet arrangement last week, the MIT Law this week, and you're going to do a lot of wrong things under the name of the democratization package. You're setting up a system where everything, everything, depends on the Prime Minister, and nothing that depends on the Prime Minister can be touched. Why is there such a pattern? Why is such order needed in this country where people who say "hungry" try to burn themselves in front of parliament, have children who die of hunger, commit suicide because they can't bring bread to their homes, commit suicide because they can't write their children down, and commit suicide because of the dignity of our poor people? Why should everything be connected to the Prime Minister? Why shouldn't anything be touched that depends on the Prime Minister? Dear friends, on December 17th, December 17th is the beginning of an operation of bribery and corruption that may not have been seen in the history of the Ottomans in the history of the republic. There's been a lot of dust since then. We start every new day with a disgrace, a new disgrace, I'm afraid. With every day's voice recordings, documents and news, the scum of power are sadly scattered, I'm afraid. That's why you're so anxious, so anxious, to cover up for yourself, to be subject, to be a suspect, and to be the defendant in the future, that's all you're worried about. Fear envelops the mountains. You will be judged, and you know very well that there is no way that you won't be judged after such corruption, corruption, bribery, theft. So you say, "complo" for him, you say, "a parallel structure," you say, "an external force," you say, "a foster lobby," and now you have a preacher lobby, and you say, "a missionary lobby," but it's not going to be enough to cover these messes, it's not going to save those who are corrupt -- I don't tell all of you. Now, the Prime Minister says: "Make it up, make it up, make it up, make it up, but making it up also has morals."
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0102par0308	Isn't there a moral to stealing?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0101par0309	True, making it up has its morals, but know this: none of this is made up. And the Prime Minister doesn't say, "Lie." He doesn't say, "That's not what happened." He says, "Montaj, they've been edited."
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0103par0310	Then what did you get out of it?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0101par0311	My dear friends, you say the snake that doesn't touch you lives for a thousand years, let it live for a thousand years. You're not sincere, the building you call "save" is being assassinated. None of you were making a sound when you were looking for the state's brain, the state's heart, the cosmic room. What were you thinking then? When our young people, our college students, were rotting in prison because they wanted a free education, none of you had enough conscience to express them. Where were you during the democratic demonstrations when people were killed and their eyes were taken out? We couldn't see any of you in those days. None of you had any idea of the murderers who had attacked and massacred the State of Cumhuriyet daily, while the scientist Türkan Saylan, journalist Soner Yalçın, journalist Hilmioğlu, İlker Başbüğu, Mustafa Balbay, and Mustafa Balbay had spent years in prison in the same files. Rights, law, humanity, justice, oppression, it's not just to see what's being done to you and to watch what's being done to others. Today, Mr. Prime Minister says "National will," he says "The Ark," and now the nation rules Turkey. Either Turkey is ruled by the nation, that's right. Let the people rule. People voted for you to run it, but people didn't vote for the Prime Minister to rob it. He's also trying to hide your robberies from the public, Prime Minister. He also says: "Muslim parties are being beaten by the chest, they are not tired of being beaten by the chest." The Republican People's Party, correct, from time to time, has also been beaten by the chest, while other political parties may have been beaten by the chest from time to time, but the Republican People's Party never gets orphaned. He's not buying an orphan's right. I ask you in particular, especially from those who are not involved in the crime. Those who are not involved in the crime should not tolerate this dark order. And those who turn away will be judged according to that which is in the darkness. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0104par0316	Thank you, Mr. Köse. Mr. Zozani, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0105par0318	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, when we're actually talking about this bag of laws, while we're doing evaluations here, we're somehow able to address the basic areas of problems in Turkey. We're now considering a new exemption, a new exemption in the Public Contraction Act. And while we're doing this evaluation, it's a little bit useful to look at what's going on around us, or it gives us a chance to evaluate the origin of what's going on. Now, look, in Turkey, unfortunately, in recent times, corruption, corruption, corruption into the tender has become legitimate, it's become ordinary, it's been done in public. However, it is necessary to imagine the social disaster that would come our way to legitimize such decay with society. Where's it coming from? I mean, how did a government get so guilty? Hypothetically, let's say it's all a bet. Does it not or does it not cause you any discomfort that these claims are constantly spoken? He's supposed to be creating. You can either go out and say, "Yes, none of this is real." You can either put it in with the evidence, or you can go down to the source, and you can see the source. Look where the source is.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0106par0323	... That's where it is.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0105par0324	Mr. Metiner, you've guaranteed the second term, so you don't have to work too hard, but I don't think you'll be able to see the second term of the AK PARTY, so don't worry about it. Now, look, there's a Turkish Trade Act that was issued during this administration. Look, I'm telling you the source, I'm trying to tell you the source of the problem. Under the Turkish Trade Law, the employer was given the opportunity to start a large company. Tens of thousands of workers were employed by these companies, their labor was confiscated, and then they were able to get rid of their debt by starting a company. Who did this? Your government issued it. Your governments brought this. There is no limit to the changes made regarding the tender law. Why are you creating so much immunity? Throughout Turkey, it is now necessary to see all businessmen, all contractors, as a result of your government's implementations on the employer's community. It's a tag law, but while you're doing it, look, businessmen who scam workers through the hoop can get into all the tenders. I can give you an example, I can give you a name. He can make a tender. He defrauds thousands of workers, seizes his labor, exploits it, he can enter the tender, because you saved him through the follicle. But I guess the contractor who doesn't pay the percentage isn't getting a job. I'm going to share an app with you: a 3km road in Haqkari, a right to 7.2 billion... the security road in the governorate's city center -- says I can't give this much money, I won't. It narrows it down to technical staff, narrows the road to asphalt, gives it to 2.4km to bid on 1.4 per cent. Three months later, the road goes south. We asked the Home Secretary. We asked in the days of Mr. Guler, during the time of Mr. Ala, we received an answer. There is no irregularity. If this is not irregularity, then the rest are all legitimate. I wanted to express it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0107par0329	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. Y O L A M A
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0108par0332	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0107par0333	I'll meet the roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Kören, Mr. Köse, Mr. Mr. Öz, Mr. Aksinger, Mr. Ershi, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Ekci, Mr. Öner, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Kürmen, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Özsüşmiş, Mr. Danşoğlu. Congressmans, I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit three motions of the same nature to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 9 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 9 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 10 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and request that the declaration of "joined" in Article 10 of the proposed law in 561 rows be replaced by "executed." His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that law proposal 561 in the current row be changed to "in the scope of this Law," which is given in the frame of Article 10 of the framework, to be changed into "subjects in the OSB." Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Lütfü Türkkan Adnan Şişek Güçük Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ten of the proposed law. Addendum 2 in Article 2. We propose that the matter be changed in the following way. "Conclusion, development, investment banks and other banks can also make financial rental arrangements under this law." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Tuğul Köse Izzet Cetin Mehmet Ali Sesame Vahap Selects Celal Dinçer Müslim Sarı Ilhan Demiröz Rahmi Love's Kind Does the commission agree with my latest motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0109par0364	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0107par0365	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0110par0366	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0107par0367	Who will speak, Mr. Hamzacebi?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0111par0368	Veli Agha.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0107par0369	Mr. Agha, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0112par0371	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, we are again dealing with a law-making technique, a bag of law, which has become almost a law-making technique during the AKP period. During this period, the bag was a law-altering technique, and the shoebox was a collection technique. Today's bag isn't in the law, it's not. There's jungle law, there's contract law, there's Internet law, there's organized industrial districts. I was going to talk to you about organized industry, but on the agenda, we had to talk a little bit about organized business. Dear MPs, all of Turkey woke up on December 17th to another morning. On December 17th, we walked together on these roads, and you did it in one day, when you and the country had ruled together for eleven years. We've seen your friends, who you've been managing together for 11 years, become the mobile lobby in one day. You were so turned around, you even made the preacher a lobbyist. On December 17th, we saw those who were held captive by dollars who put the undaunted orphan's rights in shoeboxes. On December 17th, we faced the largest corruption, theft, theft, and theft in Turkey's history. What did the Prime Minister say? ▪ The parallel structure said. It's like in American movies, where criminals say, "Oh, shit, the feds are coming." They say, "Guilts get scared when they see feds." Even in your dreams, you say, oh, parallels, parallels, and you say that every night. There's money, there's a safe, there's a watch, there's a tape, what do you call it? ▪ parallel, parallel, parallel. The esteemed MPs, the minister, took his family, went to Cidda, didn't go to Gidde. No one said 700,000 TL gift clocks were bought; no one said to another minister that bribe had gone to the garment case; no one said that there was corruption, there was theft, there was money, there was blasphemy, there was blasphemy. No one said that there were six steel safes in the minister's son's house; there were no deposits in the general manager's house; there were 4.5 million dollars out of the bank's house; there were no charges. Dear friends, who love God, who has a conscience, may say a little, why is it in the shoebox of good money, money earned by the sweat of the forehead, money earned by the legal means? Put your hand on your conscience -- maybe you can believe it, maybe the poor may believe it -- but please, I beg you, consult your consciences a little bit. Dear friends, there's so much corruption and theft, what the Prime Minister says: let's settle in the chest. Look, precious MPs, if I were the Prime Minister's convenience store, I wouldn't give the Prime Minister credit. Why don't you give the Prime Minister credit? Because at the end of the month, what will the Prime Minister say when I go to ask for the money for the stuff I gave him, the biscuits I gave him, the yogurt? Come, let's settle the election. That's why I'm telling the local grocery store, don't lend it to the Prime Minister, dear friends. Dear friends, there is a political account of the action made in the chest. The court, the Supreme Court, is the place for theft, corruption, and all sorts of crimes that have been committed. Only very talented politicians like you and only you can brag about stealing. Dear friends, what would happen if an operation like December 17th had happened anywhere in the world? One honest, one conscientious politician would resign. What happened to us? We know who did it, we know who did it, so what happened? The police, the chief of police, have been relieved of duty. I'd like to give you a few examples of the truth, the humiliation, the humiliation. Dear friends, 18 people have been killed in Cilvebözü, 52 in Reyhan, and again in Hatay, Abdullah generous police. Let alone the governor, let alone the police chief, not a single police officer was removed from duty; when the police caught the thief, when the trucks that sent weapons to the terrorist organization that was clearly supported by the AKP, which turned Syria into a pool of blood, were stopped, and the police were destroyed. In the house with his own money, you raised the police in the rally square, you booed the police in the rally square, but you gave a reward to the murderers of Ali İsmail Korkmaz, who were murdered by AKP police and the gangs supported by AKP. Dear friends, there's no need to look for criminals, I'm telling you the culprit: no interest lobby, no preacher lobby, no porn lobby, no robot lobby, guilty friends, no bad son lobby. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0113par0385	Thank you, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0114par0386	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0113par0387	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0114par0388	The speaker who was facing our group used the words "politics" and "robbery" such as you. So, on behalf of our group and on behalf of our MPs, Mr. Idris Şahin will answer, if you please.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0113par0389	Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0115par0390	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we are members of a government that really understands what this bench means, as the nation's spokesman, as the nation's representatives, for what purposes to use this bench. However, I'd like to take you to the 2005 congress of the party, which was just held by the speaker here. At the 2005 congress, I believe it is necessary for me to remind you once again of the words of the former Presidents of the past, Mr. Deniz Baykal. The current Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor Mustafa Sarıgül. Mr. Baykal was saying, "We will not hand over the Republican People's Party established by Ataturk to its co-conspirators, its co-conspirators and its supporters from the outside, but unfortunately, Mr. Deniz Baykal's Republican People's Party, as he puts it today, has co-operated with those in the position of patrons of the capital groups and their outside supporters, but the AKPARTI government, who took its power from the nation and has always accepted its own debt to answer in front of its nation as a neck. Now, if you think that this nation has forgotten what you've done in Istanbul by going up here and forgetting your past, your pollution, your BlSI scandals, your scandals, what you've done in Istanbul, you're deceived. If you're looking for a thief, you need to get in the mirror and look at him...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0116par0393	Tell me about today, tell me about today.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0115par0394	... and you'll see very clearly that it's integrated with you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0116par0395	Tell me about today.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0115par0396	On this stand, I urge you to express your words, especially in front of your past, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0117par0398	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0118par0399	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0117par0400	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0118par0401	Mr. Speaker must have teased our group with his speech, sir, I want your word. Mr. Deniz Baykal has entered the presidency of...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0117par0402	Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0118par0404	Mr. President, good lawmakers, best defense is assault. The orator just adopted such a method. Again, we have a beautiful proverb: "Yavuz the thief suppresses the host. " But this time you will not be able to suppress it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] On December 17th, an unprecedented corruption and bribery operation was launched in the history of the Republic of Turkey. Four ministers had to resign. An investigation has been launched against ministers, their relatives, the Prime Minister's children, and since then the Justice and Development Party Group and the government have filled the Turkish Parliament's agenda with laws that will cover that corruption investigation. There's more, a few left, a few coming. You, now, you've left them, you're coming here; no Saricul, no Mr. Deniz Baykal, you're saying other things. Sarıgül told the Metropolitan Mayor of İstanbul...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0119par0408	Didn't Mr. Baykal tell you?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0118par0409	...Mansur Süçük is on his way to the Metropolitan Mayorate in Ankara. You're going to lose these, you're going to lose power.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0119par0410	Mr. President, you're going to see if your president used these statements in the General Assembly. See if he used it at the 2005 convention.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0118par0411	Look, there was a serious claim on the Internet yesterday.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0120par0412	He was denied.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0118par0413	A serious claim has been made.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0121par0414	Is Mr. Baykal lying?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0118par0415	We'll bring the motion here...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0121par0416	Is Mr. Baykal lying?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0118par0417	...we'll bring the proposal. You, the Justice and Development Party, of course, take your power from the nation as a group, and I believe that that's why I congratulate all the lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party MPs in this room, that you have taken it from the nation, but your government, your Prime Minister, gets its power from the shoeboxes, not from the nation. (CHEERING) That's the problem. This will be held in court. And, of course, you will answer to the people in the election. As I finish my words, I pay my respects to you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0122par0420	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0123par0421	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0124par0422	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0122par0423	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0123par0424	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President has made an accusation in his speech, such as that the AK PARTY received its power from the shoeboxes.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0125par0425	No, the Prime Minister...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0123par0426	He's our group president, sir. If you'll excuse me, two minutes...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0125par0427	I didn't say it was the Prime Minister's, but I said it was the Prime Minister's.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0126par0428	Here you go, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please don't allow any more bullying.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0127par0431	He's getting it from the pool, from the pool.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0128par0432	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are taking a test of Turkey's politics today (December 17th). The legitimate, elected, democratic government, the system...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0129par0433	They chose, but they made a mistake.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0128par0434	...and his legitimate political representations will stand by your blackmail and tape, or will they stand by democracy, who comes with the chest, who goes with the chest? [[Noises from CHP rows]] It is important for Mr. Deniz Baykal to refer to Mr. Idris because Mr. Deniz Baykal said something important there at that convention. He said, "I will not surrender to your father." If we had anything to do with the money and the stamps...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0130par0437	No?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0128par0438	...we formed alliances with those aghas, formed coalitions, and did not fight their parents abroad. We've come to war with them today, and our fight is now with your ancestors. So we have no business with stamps or shoeboxes or money.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0131par0439	Where's the counters, where's the counters?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0128par0440	We will fight this war, this war, until the day we hand over the will of the people in whom we are entrusted to the ark. So, where we lean, where we take our power, is where the people's will is.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0132par0441	The wall you're leaning against is coming down!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0128par0442	So let those who can't beat us in the crate continue to play with tapes, with boxes, people know what's going on. I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0133par0445	Thank you, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0134par0446	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0133par0447	Here you go, Mr. Agha. If you'll just be quiet for a minute...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0134par0449	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, just now, when you promised, he expressed my speech in a different way, and I'd like to correct it in his previous speech.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0133par0450	He changed your speech to a misunderstanding.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0135par0451	No taunting, sir, and the group has already been answered, no bullying.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0133par0452	Go ahead and fix it.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0136par0454	What's he gonna fix?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0137par0455	Mr. President, I didn't call the group a thief or anything, but I'd like to ask you a few questions, if you don't mind. I'm curious to know a few phrases from this period: Did the Republican People's Party Group invent the brother-in-law? For example, did we operate on the brother-in-law of Izmir Metropolitan Mayor Mr. Buli Yıldırım? There's brother-in-law again, father-in-law, father-in-law, father-in-law, now there's a bad son. We didn't invent this stuff, guys. Look, we didn't invent these. We're dealing with the greatest theft in the history of this republic, its greatest corruption. Now, you say you have turned against America, Pennsylvania. It wasn't us who organized the tour to Pelsinvania, nor was it us who made an appointment six months before Pennsylvania and kissed a skirt, and none of our deputies kissed a skirt in Pennsylvania.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0138par0458	Didn't you see him the other day?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0137par0459	You're the one who kissed the skirt, and you've been walking hand in hand for 11 years. Any thefts, thefts? I'll tell you this: morning, there's an ATV contract, there's a record, guys. If it's wrong, say it's wrong. If it's a lie, say it's a lie. Say it, and we'll apologize.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0139par0461	Lies!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0140par0462	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0137par0463	Look, is there a money box or not? Six cash boxes came out, didn't they? Is there a 700,000-dollar watch or not? After that, is there a box or not? Is there corruption or not? You can't say no.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0139par0464	No.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0137par0465	In every field, look, there's filth everywhere, filth in every open house, corruption in every open house. Say no, come, and we'll apologize. Look, it's the product of your time that puts people in what's-his-name. Those who raise $680 million a day in a week are your allies, the people you make rich. This didn't happen during the Republican People's Party period. In the Republican People's Party Group, you can't say that any of them, including their candidates, shake dirty hands, shake bloody hands, and those who say so get the answer.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0141par0467	Who shook Esed's hand?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0137par0468	You answer for them. Why did the ministers resign, for example, and why did the ministers resign?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0141par0470	Who shook Assad's hand?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0137par0471	Why can't you do that construction anymore, why?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0142par0472	We're doing it, we're doing it. We did that in Sivas.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0137par0473	Why did your ministers resign, answer that, why did they resign? If he's clean, if he's honest, why did your ministers resign?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0143par0474	If you are clean, if you are truthful, then do so.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0137par0475	Dear friends, there's a band of thieves, corruption, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0144par0477	He resigned for ethics, and the judicial process continues.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0145par0478	Thank you, Mr. Agha. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that law proposal 561 in the current row be changed to "in the scope of this Law," which is given in the frame of Article 10 of the framework, to be changed into "subjects in the OSB." Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0146par0486	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0145par0487	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0147par0488	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0145par0489	Mr. Yeniçeri, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0148par0490	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Hasana the Long, Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror, sends a decree, saying: "He who is proud of his state, transgresses his place, and attacks my land of Islam, he loses power. In the month of Sevval, I will come and remove your persecution from the oppressed. Dear lawmakers, indeed, we seem to be constantly reviewing a subject by missing a topic here, which is that the ruling party, in its own concept, sometimes brings the bag and sometimes brings the laws against specific events to the House and submits them. And today we are faced with another bag of laws, which we have not spoken of, we have not been warned, there is no unprovoked criticism left. Now, in this bill, we're dealing with a bag of laws that have been destroyed from environmental regulations to tender arrangements to national parks to organised industry to land hunting. As a general principle, we can say that the more a parliament makes this kind of bag of legislation, the more it doesn't take living seriously. Now, look, we want to get in touch with these plans that we've come up with, or the origins of the plans that have been brought up in front of us, the reasons why. Now, this issue of the shoebox on December 17th brought up the HSYK arrangement; the voice recording of the Prime Minister's Internet brought up the law on censorship to the Internet; the phenomenon of the classrooms brought up the National Education Law; the opposition between the trucks, you know, the MIT Law on trucks, brought up the law on defence needs, not for the needs of the nation. The Justice and Development Party has largely lost its chemistry and common sense.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0149par0495	He didn't, Hajji. He didn't lose.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0148par0496	You're bringing in the laws of anger, a response, a defense, and a sense of revenge. These laws you've brought, you'll see in the future, they'll be the laws that bind you. You're complaining, you're saying that a judge in a private court has written as much as this and has listened to this and listened to this and listened to this. I told you there yesterday: If you give such authority to the president of the TİB, he will listen to you. If you give it to the Undersecretary of MIT, he will listen to you tomorrow; you are bald and you bring it to you, and you give it to him, and you cry out, "God, I am burned! You have no right. For once, I want to say out loud here that you're the one who brings in these jobs, who brings in the law, and you're the one who set up this system, and you're the one who has to face the consequences. Now, about the matter. In financing investments in organised industrial areas -- of course it's vital -- it's true that accession, development and investment banks do financial rentals. But why can't the banks of participation, development and investment just do this financial lease and the other banks do this financial rental?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0149par0498	They have Leassing companies, separate things; they can lead.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0148par0499	That's something to take into account.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0149par0500	You're saying it wrong, you got into it without knowing it!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0148par0501	Organised industrial areas, above all, are attractive, attractive, and impressive.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0149par0502	Teacher, you got into it without knowing! It's not like that, Hajji!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0148par0503	In this regard, let's make it very clear that organized industrial regions exist for planned and balanced industrialization; there is a crooked slum and industrialization; there is a way to use information and IT technologies; there is a way to create brands of Turkey; there is a way to develop production, employment and exports; there is a way to combat the informal economy. There is also a situation in which he will use all the resources he has ahead of him in a broad way, and it is a matter of serious consideration. Otherwise, limiting organised industrial zones will have very negative consequences for eliminating the functions of organised industrial areas. Organised industrial areas have numerous problems, but I don't have time, I don't have time to explain them, but I'll tell you this... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Organised industrial areas need serious support, and likewise the necessary measures. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0150par0509	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and request that the declaration of "joined" in Article 10 of the proposed law in 561 rows be replaced by "executed." Secrets Sakık (Muhs) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0151par0516	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0150par0517	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0152par0518	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0150par0519	Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0153par0521	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all again with respect and love. Yes, in the face of what's going on, you're really speechless, and you can't breathe, so I wish, I hope, we're at the point where you say we are. If we're not there, we're in a really bad place. We will say our last words to him after many things have become clear to him. Dear friends, look, we're in the process of an election. In the election process, when we gave the election start in Kurdish geography, the first thing we said was: there are no enemies here, all parties will compete with each other, but in one brotherhood law, this race will happen. We followed it, but we saw that there were also unpleasant things, but as BDP, we stood against it all the time. In recent days, be especially aware that the HDP has been attacked in İstanbul, and then in İzmir, and then in Urla. Earlier, Kurdish students at universities were subjected to the same attack. Later, the same attacks on Kurdish neighborhoods took place. We know the people who carried out these attacks, we know them. Before this peace process, they constantly triggered the process by shed crocodile tears at the funeral of the soldiers and police. Now, thankfully, for over a year now, guns have been silent, no blood, no tears, no death, so we're not in front of prisons, but we're not in the morgue, we're not in front of the hospital, but the parts that are uncomfortable are triggering the streets. Unfortunately, our friends were subjected to a heavy attack at the opening of the HDP office in Urla. In Istanbul, they were subjected to similar attacks in Kadıköy. They were attacked in Keşan. And they shamelessly said, "What is your business in Urla, and whose father's farm is Urla? Now, where did those who spoke this word come from in Urla, and where did they possess it in Urla? Who can say that to those who leave these lands from government oppression, oppression, and go out there and make them their homeland? That's not enough... Look, the Hodja massacre is a massacre, and we condemn those who committed this massacre. But there are certain focal points in Istanbul every year for a reason -- racist, nationalist, nationalist -- a year ago, the former Minister of Interior was leading them, walking from the bottom of the taxim to the front of the newspaper Agos. This time, there is no former Home Secretary there, but the same group goes up to the newspaper Agos and says: "We are all Ogun Samast. And they insult our Armenian citizens and brothers, and the government does not take the audience and those perpetrators and judge them. The only thing missing is that Idris Naim Şahin isn't there this time, but the same slogans, the same words continue there. Look, dear friends, the HDP and BDP are the guarantee of peace in this country. I mean, we're like two different rivers. As Mr. Ocalan said on March 21st, Sakarya and Meric are brothers and sisters, as BDP and Peoples' Democratic Party are brothers. We, in Kurdish geography, are doing politics in the Peoples' Democratic Party' Democratic Party (HDP) to integrate the brotherhood of the peoples in Turkey. We're like two different rivers, but we're doing politics to meet in one river. Some of the evil centers, I mean, those who can't digest this peace process, by triggering the street, by threatening the BDP, the HDP, if they're trying to get results, we've known you for 30 years, none of us have submitted to your persecution policies and won't bend. Especially those who threaten the Kurds, who try to scare the Kurds away, turn around and look at the history of the Kurds. They see how Kurds -- a challenge, persecution -- exist from nothing. We invite everyone to be smart. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0154par0530	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 11 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 11 of Law 561 be replaced by Article 11. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 11 of the current 561 Orders Numbered Law proposal. At the end of the clause, we propose the addition of the word "all" to the expression. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Namik Havutça İlhan Demiröz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of the law, which will be issued after the declaration of the law in 561 rows, in the box of Article 11. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Lütfi Türkkan Şişek Ugly Erkan Akçay S. Nevzat Don't Fear Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0155par0555	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0154par0556	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0156par0557	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0154par0558	Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0157par0560	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. And I'd like to express my views on public bids. There is a public tender law issued during the 57th Reich. A system aimed at removing the political pressure on public tenders established and giving the tender to those deserving with objective assessments, but this system has been captivated by the AKP government. So far, maybe 30 times, each substance has been altered in its own way, perhaps several times. Again, sir, you are now coming to the General Assembly with an arrangement to please the supporters, to cause them to grow fat. In the meantime, the AKP will likely be criticised most in the future, and will most likely be convicted on this issue. There are donations to TÜRGEV, which I told you earlier, there are astronomical donations to the TERGEV Foundation, where the Prime Minister's son Bilal Erdogan is also in charge. Dear friends, look, I don't want to give you company names here, but 200 trillion is a company grant of 200 trillion. Sir, six trillion, five and a half trillion et cetera. I'm not saying they're here to keep the companies out of trouble, I'm not giving them their names. We're tired of saying from this bench, and you're not tired of bringing these arrangements, because, friends, there's big money in it, there's commissions, there's rant, because there's the issue of making your pledges rich. I wonder, isn't it enough, my friends, isn't it enough that you've made your followers rich, fed, and fed them? It's not just in sports, green fields, closed gyms, you guys condemn sports clubs that are millions of fans with illegal evidence, but you have no right to make the lion drown the cat, you have no right to defeat the righteous. You're the real fixer. Yes, I'm telling the AKP, you're the real fixer. In the public tender system, you don't give it to those who deserve it, you give it to those who don't. That's the trick. There must be a proper explanation for this for your children tomorrow, or you will not be able to face the Creator tomorrow, nor will you face your children today. The AKP, as with everything else, brings it in the form of a bag of laws, as quickly as it is, as it is in the fire, not the rights, not the Civil Code, not the law, as long as it has a job, as long as it pleases someone he promises to please. Thus, the word "justice" is a word that is put there to complete the AK PARTY's "A" in the beginning of your party. It's empty, it's not a concept you believe in, and if it were, you wouldn't have been silent in the form of a door wall against our criticism until today. Do you guys know what the Justice and Development Party government looks like? Now, these latest tapees, listening, and almost all the coffees, after all the shit that's been thrown down people's mouths, the Justice and Development Party is like fish that struggle in the stream, but can't get oxygen. So, dear friends -- I'm telling the AKP lawmakers -- when there are no more abuse fields to feed you, you have no chance of getting oxygen. So the end is clear, the end is final for the Justice and Development Party, and you will not be able to escape it. So he's got to let go of all this eating and drinking stuff. So you run the government, you use government resources. It's not just that he doesn't eat, it's that he doesn't eat, it's that he doesn't eat, it's that he doesn't feed around, because you're sitting on this trust. Now that everyone's asking each other, there's a mood so gloomy that they say, "What's going to happen to this country?" I know what's gonna happen. If the Justice and Development Party continues to turn its back on justice, justice, law like this, God forbid, the end of this country, this nation, it seems dark. We're calling our AKP MP friends a little mercy, and we want you to remember a little bit of the fear of God. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0158par0571	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 11 of the current 561 Orders Numbered Law proposal. At the end of the clause, we propose the addition of the word "all" to the expression. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0159par0578	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0158par0579	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0160par0580	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0158par0581	You don't agree. Mr. Kören, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0584	Mr. President, I wouldn't want to be in the position of the esteemed lawmakers at the time of power. You're having a really hard time.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0162par0585	Don't decide that, Mr. Kören!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0586	All of the speakers that have come out are so troubled that some are looking to the 2005 convention, to the Republican People's Party's Convention, and some are going to go back and talk about the SSKI 20 years ago. You're in a lot of trouble, you're in a lot of trouble.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0163par0587	Mr. Hasan, we're comfortable, take care of yourself.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0588	But you have to come to this stand and tell me what happened today. You only deceive yourself when you're not talking about it. You're melting; you're down to 35 in the latest polls. This meltdown will continue.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0164par0590	Would you like to resign as a deputy?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0591	There's no way you can stop this from melting. Yell all you want...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0164par0592	Come on, quit.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0593	Stand up as long as you like, jump...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0165par0594	What does the CHP look like in that poll?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0595	But you can't explain these thefts, these corruptions, this robbery.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0166par0596	I'm going to take him to the CHP province of Manisa...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0597	If you want to tell me, you'll be on this stand. You heard the latest.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0167par0598	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0599	Those with expertise say that it is impossible to imitate the voice of God.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0168par0600	Now let's add yours and see.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0601	If it's the montage's montage, no matter how you edit it, whatever day you collect and edit it, it's obvious. So, no matter what you do, the Prime Minister has the right to speak to Bilal Erdogan. No matter what you say, no matter how much you deny it...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0169par0602	So that's an expert opinion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0603	...that the Justice and Development Party within the community...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0170par0604	Are you an expert, Mr. Hasan? You're a editing expert?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0605	...we refuse to allow him to host such a theft.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0171par0606	Aysenur Arslan... it's a shame!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0172par0607	Live in dreams, live in dreams!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0608	Dear friends, of course you are.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0171par0609	Even Ayþenur Arslan's attitude... It's shameful, it's unbecoming!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0610	In such a long period, there will be so many tapes since December 17th, there will be so many speeches, and there will be so many talks about theft, about robbery, let alone the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0173par0611	We didn't come with the tape, we're not going with the tape!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0612	...even the minister of your own choosing, the Minister appointed by the Prime Minister...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0174par0613	That doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0614	...Erdoğan Bayraktar will say: "O Prime Minister, I took permission from you about this zoning, you told me, I did it. If I'm resigning, Mr. Prime Minister, why don't you resign? What kind of instinct is that? What kind of excitement is that? You've completely adapted to a human being, and maybe half of you know it. You can't say it even though you know it, and you can't say it when you know it.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0175par0615	You're living in a dream, Mr. Hasan!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0616	You've gone from poverty to looting. Now, what happened at the end of the looting? So you've done these things, and they'll be accounted for. Is it possible he wasn't asked? Then you'll have to set up a trial. Now, you've moved on to the judicial arrangement.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0176par0617	Ask Miss Birgül!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0618	Well, you know, in the face of such allegations -- let's say that the Prime Minister's talks with his son are allegations -- that the people who hold hands against these allegations need to be on the sidelines for the sake of the investigation, don't you think?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0176par0619	Yes, yes, yes!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0620	Metiner, isn't that what you said in Ergenekon?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0176par0621	Ask Mrs. Birgül, what does Birgül say?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0622	The tapes were valid, the speeches were valid, the wet signatures were valid, now, when we get out, it's not valid.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0177par0623	Don't contradict yourself!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0624	I mean, you're like kids playing in the street. You know, when you're playing oak and the loser cries, that's where you end up.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0177par0625	You're contradicting yourself, yourself!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0626	My dear friends, it's over. Let our friends among you raise their heads. This irregularity is not something that our citizens in Turkey would accept.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0178par0628	Ask Birgül Ayman Güler.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0629	It's impossible to accept. You can't cover it up with Republican People's Party MPs. By criticizing them, you can't go back and destroy this theft, this irregularity. My last word on that...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0179par0630	People are gonna say it, people!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0631	...the carousel of thieves and irregularities is fractured, but your veins continue to collect.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0180par0632	Look at CHP, CHP!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0161par0633	My respects.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0181par0635	Thank you, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0182par0636	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0181par0637	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Ören, Mr. Serker, Mr. Akar, Mr. Chosen, Mr. Demirçallı, Mr. Acar, Mr. Özdir, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Ekutçi, Mr. Ekin, Mr. Yıldız, Mr. Öner. Congressmans, I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party's motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 11 of Law 561 be replaced by Article 11. Secrets Sakık (Muhs) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0183par0649	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0181par0650	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0184par0651	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0181par0652	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0185par0654	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, guys, in 20 minutes, we're gonna be out of live, and then we're gonna talk about the Internet bans.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0186par0656	You go, we stay.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0185par0657	But I'd like to say a few words about the Internet bans before we cut live here. We put our reasons for this bag of laws. Now, of course, in the history of the Republic, the President carried out a first in the history of Parliament; he approved the law in the House; then he called the Assembly, and said: "Change these articles of this law. The law has been offered within two hours. Have you ever heard of a flower called a one-night bride? A flower named the bride for one night; the leaves of the yellow sunflower are white; they are big, they bloom at twelve, they bloom at five in the morning; white leaves that bloom at five in the morning; they have yellow things in the middle; they close in the morning. This flower sometimes blooms for two years, three years, five years. I was in Sakarya Karasu, where a teacher immediately called me: Please, come to the balcony, and the other neighbors came. And I was at the guest house, and we saw that flower, and we saw her opening, and we saw the leaves on the screens just as they're being slowed down. Then we had our tea, and we all saw it close. It was twelve, closed about four and a half hours, and that flower lived four and a half hours. The life span of this Internet Law has not even been as long as this flower, my friends. At 8:30, Mr. President returned from abroad, approved, two hours later the bill came to the Commission; we are working day and night, and by the way, I'll tell our people from here: a hard-working Parliament, not a factory, but a shift. Two hours later, the bill came in. What are you guys changing? We're checking traffic records, and E will be linked to the head of TİB again. Guys, the president of the TİB is not the prosecution. Article 22 of the Constitution shall make a very clear definition of freedom of communication: It cannot be banned unless it is ruled by a court of law. Now, what will happen, sir, with the law proposal brought before the Constitutional Court to intervene in order to circumvent it? Here, he'll go to the magistrate in 24 hours after he makes a restraining order. No, guys! As soon as you start banning freedoms, the search outside of freedom begins, friends, crypto is worthless, it's not worth anything. Internet bans... are being searched via satellite from abroad, from other services, from other authorities. Anyone can show you proof of that, fellas. There's no point in playing with information, technique, laws, bans, guys. Those times are over, they used to be. This is no time for bans. Be free, be transparent, so you can be so comfortable that you don't have fists coming down on your conscience, don't feel this way, feel free. Don't feel insecurity, don't feel afraid; be clear, be clear, be comfortable. Again, the forces that double-cross the temples are very disturbing, my friends, whether they're parallel or vertical, it doesn't matter. But let us know this very well... that Jonah's emret, alas, the whole life of his life, has taken you away from the path. There's a very beautiful saying, I'd like to say it. Don't let anyone get too cocky with the bans, fellas. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0187par0664	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 11 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 11 is accepted. There are three motions on the 12th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of the law, which will be issued after the declaration of the law, which is in the framework of Article 12 of the proposed 561. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Lütfü Türkkan Adnan Şişek Güçük To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 12 of the proposed legislation. At the end of the clause, we want the expression to be changed in terms that are primarily defined. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kadir Gökmen Öğüt Süleyman Çelebi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the declaration of Article 12 of the proposed law in 561 rows be replaced by the declaration of the av area. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0188par0687	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0187par0688	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0189par0689	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0187par0690	Mr. Kaplan, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0190par0692	Mr. President, I'm a little emotional today. I'm sorry. In Ukraine, a group of policemen will kneel down on their knees and apologize to our people. I believe that one day the police in this country will kneel before the people, we have done injustice to our brothers, we have sprayed too much gas, we have struck too many clubs, we will see that they will apologize, and very soon, believe this.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0191par0694	Except for the travel activities.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0190par0695	In travel, in Neroz, everywhere, wherever there is life, wherever there is objection. As long as you can stand tall in the pursuit of legitimacy, in the pursuit of legitimate rights. I'm surprised to hear that a 13 - year - old boy was shot with more than his age in Kızıltepe. Do you remember when his file was banished to Eskişehir, after his body was riddled with holes, and all the cops who killed him closed the case without being punished? He's written a lot, he's drawn a lot, he's called the Unspoiled Event in Redhill. What did the European Court of Human Rights say? You are violating the right to live, and I condemn you. In these conventions, it condemns contractual governments. He condemned the government, in fact Turkey, not 77 million people, but the chartered government, the government, which is the side of the convention. The government says, "I condemn you to the state." Do you know what a disgrace it is to be a prisoner of human rights law and rights law in the 21st century? Condemned for killing people. There are many different kinds of being a prisoner. When we think of justice for everyone, believe me, we'll go a long, long way in this country. Turkey is not a dream where justice is equal to everyone, law is for everyone, human rights is for everyone, friends. It's not a dream to change the Constitution of September 12th. If politics is over in this country, if it's blocked, if it can't solve itself, if it can't create itself, if it can't create it, if it can't solve it -- let alone the Internet bans -- every day, if there's a service service, a curtain, a section of broadcast, there's something going on, something's wrong with politics. The people will question us, all of us, friends. If the government is wrong, the opposition will see if you are doing the right thing. If all three opposition parties can't come together in a wrong, or if two parties can't come together in this parliament around a line, can't talk about solving a problem, if we can't change the constitution of a coup after 35 years, if we can't change a electoral system in a democratic way, what have we given these people, what have we given them? We lied in the squares, we changed the constitution of this coup. We said, "We regressed it, we made it even more violent, we made it even more illegal." We bagged him with bags of freedom from the European Union, friends, bags, patched up the Constitution. The constitution of the Kenan Universe lives, the spirit of the Kenan Universe lives, the spirit of the generals lives in this parliament, and the ban lives in it. The Internet restrictions brought to freedom, the restrictions on the press tomorrow with the MIT Law, the restrictions on all people, the restrictions and oppression and oppression and the people in prison... Why does freedom scare you guys? It's a beautiful thing, freedom, like blue skies, desolate, vast. When you start thinking freely enough to hold on to the stars, believe me, much will change in Turkey. I believe that. If we don't change, 76 million will change all of us in Turkey, change this House; another era will be another people, other parties will be in this House. Those who stand for the ban will lose, and those who stand for the freedoms will win. With all due respect...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0192par0701	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 12 of the proposed legislation. At the end of the clause, we want the expression to be changed in terms that are primarily defined. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0193par0708	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0192par0709	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0194par0710	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0192par0711	Mr. Reminder, here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0195par0713	Dear President, I have made a commitment to Article 12 of Bag Number 561. Again, it was rushed, and I'm sure we're dealing with a bill you don't even know about. Again, before the election, you're in a hurry to pass the laws that come your way, and you're doing it again, as usual, by ignoring the opposition. By law, green areas, ponds, hunts, forests, infrastructures of their habitats, destroyed by the third bridge, are completely destroyed. But the resistance that began in the Travel continues today in ODTÜ. This society will prevent the destruction of these green fields. Dear MPs, come on, the media are afraid of Alo Fatih. Everyone has learned about it. What do you call cutting off even the literature of Parliament TV, where the representatives of the nation are? How do you digest it? Look, Mr. Prime Minister, before the 2009 elections, there's law in Turkey, there's democracy, there's established system, there's established institutions, there's rules. In this country, the idea is free, the conscience is free, there are judges. At the same time, Mr. Bakili Yıldırım, the Minister of Transport at the same time, was giving fatwas saying, "If you have no wrong jobs or illegal jobs, do not be afraid to rest, but speak as much as you want." With false evidence and listening, the patriots of this country have been in prison for five years, counting the days of persecution. Five years later, the idea of that day was free prosecutors today's parallels? Who tricked you? You managed the government by being tricked for 11 years? Let's go back to 2011. In a speech to Mr. Deniz Baykal before the elections, on May 4, 2011, Mr. Deniz says, "Look, Haci Bektas Veli, watch your hand, your waist, your tongue." This tape is not private, it's general. In those days, we told you many times, find out who made these tapes. You didn't want to find it, so you used it from top to bottom. Today, please see that this conspiracy is not for the good of Turkey, but for the evil of Turkey. And the likes of this plot were done unto Baikal, and unto Demirel, and unto Erbakan, and unto Erbakan. If we do not give the harshest answer, similar plots will continue to be carried out. As they say: 'Alma, take off the shame of the afflicted. This nation is awake now.' These people, Ergenekon, have been very clear about what they're playing in cases like the Sledgehammer, which have troubled the public conscience. When you, without pity, tried to silence the bright faces of this country, blacken the future of those who weren't of you, put up posters, wrote poetry on billboards, ate without money from the cafeteria, started investigations and sued for free tea in the university, these rectors, judges, prosecutors, police were parallel again, weren't they? The talks we'd rather not have heard have been going on the Internet for days. When we listen, we're ashamed, and you're not denying it, but you're saying "montaj" and you're avoiding it. Well, there's salt shaker in the parliament, and you didn't take it personally when you said it. The Internet phenomenon that you've worked so hard to censor, Baattin, he's got you all worked up about it. Most of you may have seen it, I'm afraid I can't say it here. You, as rulers of this country, have chosen to fill the pockets of your own and your followers, not of the nation. Moreover, you did it not with your forehead, not with your labor; but with bribes, by stealing from the workers' pockets, by taking from the pensioners' pockets, by encouraging them, by stealing a finger of honey. Today, like all pensioners, retired petty officers are crying blood. They've just announced that they're going to start a death fast in March because they've been ignored because their issues with rights have not been resolved. How many of you know about this? How many of you say, "What are the problems? " Dear lawmakers, this government has now lost its legitimacy in the public eye. He must resign immediately and go to the chest. Congressmans, there was still a poem called "Nazim Hikmet continues to be a traitor." The poem remains, unfortunately, up-to-date. I'd like to remind him again of this poem, because you call it the traitor of the state: Yes, I am a traitor, if you are a patriot, if you are a traitor, if I am a traitor, I am a traitor to the land, if I am in your citizens' farms/states, if I am in your checkbooks, if I die in your families, if I am a traitor, if I am a traitor, if I am a traitor to the U.S. States, if I am still a traitor, if I am a traitor to the U.S.S.A., if I am still a traitor. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0196par0724	Thank you, Mr. Öpün. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of the law, which will be adopted after the declaration of ▪ the framework of the 561 row 12 article. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0197par0731	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0196par0732	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0198par0733	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0196par0734	Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0199par0736	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received word on the motion we have made. I salute you all. This material is being arranged for land-hunting. Of course, in the land-hunting, the village was thought to contribute to its corporate personality, but there had been a lot of dramas before, so that the village could contribute to its corporate personality, to the people in the village, but then you hired them to become subsidable areas. You've made it available to the villagers to rent and benefit from it. So it turned out that the peasant couldn't make much use of it. Again, every day there's something new about these listenings. In the past tenses, friend, everyone is resting, so let's come up with a solution. When you say, "Let's find a solution, let's find a solution." When you say, "For the safety of the state, sir, for the safety of this one, or for this one's safety, you always argue." Now, when it comes to you, when it comes to the subject of your rest, you bring criticism here or you make taunts from your place. Friends, look, a lot of institutions have been bugged in the past period, many people have been bugged, even 70 million people living in Turkey suspect that they're all listening on their phones, so let's not talk about this over the phone. But you haven't seen it, you haven't heard it. So the Prime Minister was also able to rest, and the ministers were able to rest. When you show up today, you say you're suffering from it now. If you suffered then, you wouldn't be able to deal with what was done to others, and you would accept what was done to others was unfair, and then you would go after it. So you didn't go over it, oh, you even laughed, you liked it so that we could get the majority that would change the Constitution by ourselves. You came out, and you talked about it in the polls, but the day came, and it happened to you. I mean, I'm not happy about it, and no one should find the punishment, but you didn't take any precautions about it yesterday, you liked it yesterday, it happened to you today, I'm trying to tell you about it. Guys, for him, we need to do everything we can to be right, to be God's sake, to be useful to everyone, to protect everyone's rights. If you come up with a bill to protect only your own things, to protect your own interests, to ensure your own political future, one day it will blow up on you, and when the pumpkin explodes, there's no point in shouting after that. So, as we prepare these proposals, as we prepare the laws, we must prepare them in the conscience, in the fear of God, in the eyes of all our people, in the eyes of justice and law. Or we'll all suffer from it, and we'll all suffer from it. Again, in this material, you're making arrangements for land-hunting, for the benefit of land-hunting people in the village, for the benefit of land-hunting. Hunting ends in Turkey. In fact, we can make the hunt a tourism gain by protecting wildlife in Turkey, protecting the rights of wild animals, but unfortunately, you've done nothing in your 12-year-old power so far. In fact, the hunting life is over. It's as if there are less wildlife in Turkey than there used to be people who can go and hunt properly, maybe even people who can't afford it. Here, mountain goat, wild deer in the mountains, rural areas of Antalya, for example, we can turn this into very good tourism and get our country's income, but of course, as I said, by protecting the wildlife. Again, in this law, I just mentioned the mera fields. Every time I get out, the sale of these 2/B properties will begin soon. Take care of that as soon as possible. Look, we've told you before. Take precautions. You didn't listen. Again, I'm screaming from here, so let's get him on the record, so take precautions on this. Let the farmers buy this land. If the farmers don't get this land, God will show it, blood will be spilled, and you'll be responsible for it. So let's take precautions about this, the villagers, the farmers, the people who live there, the people who plant these fields, protect the people who plant these fields, and let them buy these fields. Otherwise, this -- to show God -- will have terrible consequences, and the plague will be on your neck. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0200par0746	Thank you, Mr Varli. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 12 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 13 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that the declaration of Article 13 of Law 561, which is in question, be changed specifically by the declaration. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani The two motions I'm going to make now are the same. I'm going to process these motions together, and I'm going to promise the motion makers that they're willing to do so. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 13 of the proposed law. We request that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu İzzet Cetin Vahab Selects Mehmet Ali Sesam Tutor Köse Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu Celal Dinçer Müslim Sarı İlhan Demiröz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that Section 13 be removed from the proposal text of the current law proposal in 561 rows. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Lütfü Türkkan Adnan Şişek Ugly Erkan Akçay Does the commission agree with these proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0201par0775	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0200par0776	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0202par0777	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0200par0778	Yes, Mr. Günal, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0203par0780	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, the reason for this substance is said to be in harmony with Oil Law 5015, the purpose is called this, and the manufacturers involved in the production of petrochemistry are also allowed to import LPGs. Since this is a special arrangement, we are opposed to this arrangement. Because right now, about 70 companies are importing it. So, a new group of importers is being created here on the one hand. On the other hand, of course, it's against the law. It's against the generality of the law, and it's against the rules of competition. You'll say, "Why?" It's just a special arrangement for the petrochemistry industry. I'm asking now, Mr. Ministers, aren't these being used here in the national defence industry that concerns the Minister outside petrochemistry? So it's not used in the iron steel place? There are places that concern your Ministry, for example. I'm just saying, you're here. Well, why don't we give them import permission, but it's only for use in the exclusive petrochemistry sector? And here, from the past to the present, there are statements from the Prime Minister about fuel smuggling, off the record, about oil. Tomorrow, how are they going to control whether or not they're going to buy and sell here, again, in the same way as this process regime? That's another thing. Besides, most importantly, what's going to happen here? We talked on the commission. Every time you give up a fortune, it's on the back of a citizen. Again, when the 20th of September comes, in the Central Future Program, again, our Finance Minister will be able to figure out the supply and say: "Sorry, our income goals didn't hold up. We're going to put these on as VATs. Now, we've asked them to account for them. Unfortunately, it wasn't done because it came as an offer, with a proper analysis of the impact. So we have a tax loss here. We'll upload this to the citizen tomorrow. These need to be done in the book of accounts. Unfortunately, even though we asked, our friends didn't bring such an arrangement because they came as an offer of the law. In fact, every tax that goes down, tomorrow, the road tells you that water is electric, so, like, ETV, VAT, comes back as a special communication tax. We're talking here, you know. But they didn't answer for it, Mr. Ünal. You say it beautifully, but we ask you, my friends: there is no analysis, but at least how much will we give up? How much LPG is used in the petrochemistry industry that imports it? Unfortunately, that's all that's missing. So in doing these studies, what sector will it contribute to, how will it be, are there any other sectors that need to do that? Which we've been thinking about since Mr. Secretary was here. The most important is also used in the iron steel industry. Plus, when we're trying to maintain competition, make adjustments, it has the opposite effect of disrupting competition. So, bride, I'm afraid what's being done here is wrong without being shown ways to make up for the loss of income and inconvenience of the citizen. That's what we've been arguing about for days. You had a problem with the wire transfer. Every time we have a government bill, two of our friends sign it, thanks to them, the ministries bring it here because we have this demand. When that happens, laws pass through here without regulations that have nothing to do with the Prime Minister's regulations -- the impact, the emptiness, tomorrow's tax loss, the impact on competitive law. What do we do next? The President's offer of a change is being made here before it's signed. So, let's give up this law-making technique for once, Mr. Minister, and let's remove this arrangement here that will cause the loss of STV tomorrow, which will cause the loss of revenues of the finances, and if there's any regulation, the generality of the laws, if there's something that needs to be encouraged, let's give them a chance to organize all sectors, to support them in a way that will help them. Otherwise, beyond creating a new group of importers, it seems to have no purpose but to make it a little easier for a few firms in that sector. In this framework, we demand that this clause be removed from this proposal on the grounds that it is a special arrangement. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0204par0791	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Who will speak on the Republican People's Party's motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0205par0793	Mr. Sezgin Godkulu.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0204par0794	Dear Godkulu, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0206par0795	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we don't use this bench very much, but our friends are here, and you are here. Today, our President-General has expressed himself, so we're really going through the worst, hardest days in the history of this republic. So we can't even look each other in the eye. I once listened to those tapes that were released yesterday, and I never wanted to hear them again, but as a citizen of this republic, I was truly ashamed and as a lawyer, as a advocate of human rights, I struggled for years with illegal listening, illegal listening. I've been talking about this a lot on the stand, but you've all been quiet. For two-and-a-half years today, I've filed all of our party's questions, research commission motions and bill proposals, and I've shared them on social media. We brought the bill here, you became the wall, the wall didn't go anywhere.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0207par0798	You can't bring a bill, learn first, you can't bring a bill.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0206par0799	Will you shut up!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0207par0800	You can't bring the bill, learn!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0206par0801	Will you shut up! If you have any shame, if your nose gets red, you won't talk there, you'll listen first. Okay? If your nose is red enough, you'll shut up and listen first.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0208par0803	Mr. President, would you please invite the minister to speak properly?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0206par0804	Dear friends, look, you've become walls, you've all become walls, and I've published the list today, dear friends. Can you tell us where you were that day? Why are you doing victimology today? How many laws do we have in there to resist illegal listening, illegal listening? How many questions have we given you, and you haven't answered one? One day, he will shoot you. We said, "He came, he shot you, he came, he shot you today, dear friends. Look, in 2005, dear friends, on July 1, 2005, during your reign, Diyarbakır 6. The High Criminal Court has decided to listen illegally to all Turkey, regarding all Turkey. I filed a criminal complaint, I filed a complaint about the Undersecretary of MIT. I was the president of the Bar, not the MP. That's all we've got. I filed a criminal complaint against judges and prosecutors, and that's when I was found, and they decided to listen to all the communication in Turkey. What was done then? I forwarded it to you. Your ministers are here, the Minister at the time, now the Speaker of Parliament; I told him, look, this law will come and shoot you. And now he's here to shoot you. That big, that big, really, dear friends, more than you'd ever know. I was shocked when I heard it. I'm really shocked. On behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of the ministers, I am ashamed and ashamed to be a citizen of this republic. I'm really embarrassed. I'm really embarrassed. Dear friends, look, I'm embarrassed.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0209par0807	So, you take it for granted?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0210par0808	It's not a wiretap, it's a montage! That's not listening!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0206par0809	I'm ashamed, dear friends, ashamed. As a citizen of this republic, I am ashamed for you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0210par0810	He's not listening, you're twisting, you're twisting.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0206par0811	Look, the most precious thing people leave to their children is their honor. They leave their dignity, their dignity, not money, not money that doesn't fit, honor is left, honor is left. This republic has given you the Prime Minister, the parliament, the ministry, everything; is there any greater honor than that? What is this? What is this arrogance? What's with all the money? Where are you going to put all this? Where are you going to take it?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0211par0813	Yeah, they're fakes, montage editing!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0206par0814	Where are you taking them, dear friends? I'm asking you, where are you taking him?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0211par0815	Yeah, it's a montage!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0206par0816	Look, dear friends, you really should be ashamed, everyone should be ashamed. Everyone should be ashamed of what you've done with Turkey, and you should be ashamed in the first place. Look, you've interfered with all our legislature efforts here.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0212par0817	Yeah, you couldn't keep your signature, your signature!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0206par0818	We could have stopped it together. You kept a job for 11 years, 11 years. But the Prime Minister spoke a true word in one place, in Kazlishme. He spoke the truth in Kazşim.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0213par0819	Every word he says is true, and every word he says is true.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0206par0820	We can't keep millions in their homes, we can hardly keep them. Yes, what millions were discovered today, dear friends. It turned out to be the millions. Look, you have to...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0213par0822	You're doing politics with a tape! You do tape politics?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0206par0823	Yeah, we're doing politics, of course, two.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0213par0824	There's no politics with a tape! You're doing tape politics. Why don't you stop where you were yesterday?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0206par0825	But we do it with honor, with dignity. We have only one job to leave to our children, our honor is our honor. No money, no pride, no honor; that's how you should know.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0213par0826	Why are you using what you were rightly complaining about yesterday today? You were doing something honorable yesterday.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0214par0827	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0206par0828	I'm doing it today, I'm doing it today.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0213par0829	Why are you doing politics on this today?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0206par0830	Everything I've done, everything I've done, it's obvious.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0213par0831	You're doing it wrong. You're doing it wrong. Your conscience knows that.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0206par0832	All that I've done, dear friends. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What I say on this stand, what I do under the roof of this House, is my honor. I wish you had one tenth of that.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0213par0835	What you said yesterday was true, you're saying the wrong thing today.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0206par0836	Shame, shame! I wish you'd come and speak with honor here!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0215par0838	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that the declaration of Article 13 of Law 561, which is in question, be changed specifically by the declaration. Secrets Sakık (Muhs) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0216par0846	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0215par0847	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0217par0848	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit03spe0215par0849	I'm reading the reason: Reason: With this change, this text is intended to be more understandable. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Thus, the vote of substances in chapter one is complete. Congressmans, I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0215par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 561. The commission and the government are in place. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second part includes 14 to 26 ▪ Articles. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first word on the second chapter belongs to Aydın MP Bkent Tezcan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Tezcan. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0218par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valued MPs, in fact, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we are negotiating under a black spot that neither the state nor the government nor this nation deserves. Dear friends, look at what's happened since yesterday. In fact, if you're the minister, let's go back to what happened since December 17th. Look, unfortunately, we've seen an acquish in Turkey about corruption, theft, corruption, bribery, forced extortion, almost a volume of novels. Congressmans, look, the government must be present in order for the Turkish Grand National Assembly to hold its talks. Which government? The legitimate government must be present. Unfortunately, today, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, as well as the Prime Minister, has lost his legitimacy, and the government of the Republic of Turkey has lost its legitimacy. Where there is a government that has lost its legitimacy, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey cannot perform any legislative activity or the General Assembly's work. Dear friends, look, under this roof, in the most difficult times of this nation, when poverty was at its knees, this Parliament held hands with the absence of the veteran Parliamentary nation and fought the National Liberation War. When this land was occupied against the seven heifers, he took the orders of the Tekalif-i Milliye and told his citizens all over Anatolia: "Our honour is occupied, our honor is occupied, let us save our honour together." he said. So he gave one of his oxes, and gave one of his socks with two pairs, and gave one of his socks with one pair. They brought him out of his pacifier child's livelihood, and this veteran fought hand and hand in hand to heart to save the nation's honor, so that he could fight the national war of salvation in the absence. Dear friends, that's why we called the Grand National Assembly of Turkey the Shaazi Parliament. For this reason, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is above all else and has the dignity of the nation. Now, the nation's honor is being trampled, the eBatulmal hand is stretched out, the beneficiaries have been plundered and the taran should not appear. The Prime Minister takes over the telephone at midnight, saying to his children: "Get together your seven families, your brother, your brother-in-law, and your son-in-law, together with these coins." he says. Dear MPs, is it possible to understand that? When it comes to protecting and saving the dignity of the nation in such a parliament, we can't do legislature unless we wipe out this land on the face of the nation and the government, and as long as the Turkish National Assembly is a means of covering up these corruptions, it becomes a partner in corruption, it becomes a partner in the stolen land. Now there's one thing we're all going to do together, dear lawmakers, and I'm not talking to my friends from Justice and Development Party and the Justice and Development Party, I know that all of our friends from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are uncomfortable with this, or at least I think they're going to be. Dear friends, look, we're dealing with an arrangement in Turkey that has been trying to control a whole system of corruption since December 17th, where it's trying to control the state and the system on its own. It is only the Great National Assembly of Turkey, where the nation's honor is held, where the nation's honor is expressed. Dear friends, look, let's not allow this stain on the head of the Veteran Assembly, let's not allow this land to be stolen on the forehead of the Veteran Assembly, and let's all, together, end this government, which has lost its legitimacy, as long as it doesn't resign. We are the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; we are not the Assembly of corruption; we are not a Parliament that protects buildings built on the unlawful. We are the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, lawmakers of the Parliament, who held hands with it in the absence and poverty of this nation, who came from Anatolia to Ankara to defend the nation's honour in the poorest days. We'll shake and turn ourselves in. We will not be servants of anyone, except to be servants of God. And we will not swear before anyone except to be servants of Allah. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, look, we've heard the tapes, you've heard them. Mind damage, mind damage. 1 billion euros is mentioned, 1 billion euros. This is the property of this nation, the property of this nation, the right of an orphan. Five million people are unemployed, and one out of five young people are unemployed. In this country, 700-800 lira minimum wage doesn't make a living. We want an honorable council to ask the Prime Minister where you got 1 billion euros, and this Parliament will ask, we expect him to ask. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, look, they've gotten these people used to something since day one. My dear people, what kind of work is this? In this land, you steal between the words of God and the words of God. Is there such a thing in our religion? Is there a theft between Bismillah and alhamdulillah? What faith would that fit into? The talk begins with the word "bismillah," "miss the money." It goes on with it, ending with "Elhamdulillah." Dear friends, even the devil is amazed at this prayer, even the devil's mind. Now, here, today, as if none of this had ever happened, we continue to live here as if these laws that have been rushed through the Republic of Turkey for two months, these changes, these changes that the Prime Minister obtained illegally, were not laws to protect and cover this corruption.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0219par0023	Don't lie! Don't lie!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0218par0024	History is going to ask that, and history is going to ask that of those who are silent here today, and those who are coming out of the stand today. Now, answer me this, my friends, don't object... I don't blame the MPs, I blame the Prime Minister, who has lost his legitimacy. By using the power of the state, I blame the Prime Minister and the government, who, by the power of this nation, the orphan, the poor, and the one who stands behind him. I'm talking about the Prime Minister who sees the benediction as his own pocket and is not afraid to reach out to the eBatulmal, not bored, not talking about you. No offense, no offense. But if you're saying that we're going to be part of this system. If you're saying that we're going to be in this system...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0220par0025	Be smart! Be smart! Be smart, smart! Keep your voice down! Be smart! Speak properly!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0218par0026	I'm smart! Make up your minds! I'm smart! Make up your minds!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0220par0027	Speak properly! You can't say "Prime Minister." You're going to speak with decency!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0218par0028	I'm not saying anything immoral. If you want to be moral, vice is happening in front of everyone.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0221par0029	You're slandering me, slandering me!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0218par0030	To object to the existence of this land, to those who lay their hands on the poor of the orphan, to be moral.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0221par0031	You're slandering me! You speak for the dark tapes!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0218par0032	Morality is about protecting the goods of an honest, decent nation. Morality isn't about robbing businessmen and robbing them, it's about being rich; it's about the moral MP. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0222par0035	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0223par0036	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0222par0037	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0223par0038	Mr. Speaker has made grave accusations against our group, facing our Group President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0222par0039	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0223par0041	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, sometimes you come to the end of the line.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0224par0042	It's already over!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0225par0043	That's right!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0226par0044	That's right, that's right, President!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0227par0045	With your memory, with what you've been through, someone comes along, and it's almost as if they're ignoring you, mocking you, looking in your eyes, thinking you've forgotten, in this country, when 24 banks are being emptied, they're being silenced, corruption is knee-deep...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0228par0046	Who emptied it?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0229par0047	Does that excuse any of this?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0227par0048	...those who don't speak when the economy, the system, the political system collapses...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0230par0049	You stole more?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0227par0050	...when they're operating on dark tapes today, they think it's their right to insult them like they're real, by supplying them with their own politics, and they think it's politics. We are innocent of everything you say and we are far from it.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0230par0051	Mr. Mahir, do you believe that you're defending it?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0227par0052	We will return to you with the like of what you have said.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0230par0054	It's hard Mr. Mahir, it's hard!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0227par0055	We do politics here with honor, dignity, morality, honesty.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0231par0056	What honesty? What honesty?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0227par0057	With our leader, with our party, with our power, we have a clear head, a clear heart, a clear path.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0232par0058	What honesty? Where are the quadrillions in the house? Tell me where the quadrillions found in Erdogan's house come from!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0227par0059	So see which dark tape politics you carry water to the mill.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0233par0060	Your job is difficult, your job is difficult, Mr. Ünal, your job is difficult!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0234par0061	Mr. Mahir, I pity you, I pity you!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0227par0062	Just yesterday your president left with the tape because he didn't turn himself in to his parents, and the people who took him with the tape won't be able to take us with the tape...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0234par0063	How hard you make these conversations, how hard it is!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0235par0064	You guys are tough.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0227par0065	And the history and the people bear witness to that. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0236par0068	Thank you, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0237par0069	This doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0238par0070	Your work is difficult, may God help you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0236par0071	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Antalya MP Mehmet Günal.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0239par0073	Mr. President, ask Unal. Where did the money come from in the son's house?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0236par0075	Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0239par0076	They moved them in trucks, they moved them in trucks, where are they?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0240par0077	Prove it, Kamer!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0236par0078	If you'll excuse me, I'll make a promise to the congressman on the stand. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0241par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. First of all, Mr. Ünal said a brief word. He didn't tell us directly, but every time he told us, he put the whole bank in his mouth. 57. Minister of the government, Mr. Bal has responded to you in detail here the other day.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0242par0083	No, why do you feel offended?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0241par0084	Wait a minute, I mean, here, now, every time you say it, I'll tell you. On the contrary, 57. The government has issued the BDK Act on those banks, the Banking Act, the Banking Act, and the banks that are in ruins and rehabilitated...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0242par0085	And the brave men, and the Alaatin Banger, and the Mesut Yilmaz, among them...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0241par0086	You'll answer, Mr. Ünal. Mr. Ünal, stop and answer me. Don't be mad at me. Look, I didn't mean to pick on you. I'm saying something.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0242par0087	No, I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0243par0088	You robbed the People's Bank.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0242par0089	No one's touched a penny of the people's bank!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0243par0090	Explain 30m euros one, 30m euros.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0244par0091	I'm telling you, those banks had gone down before, and they got it when they came in. Now, let alone you sinking banks, we're not going to talk about anything else going down. There's a lot going on here in the law. You're forcing us to talk about something else. I'm saying we've made the law, we've dealt with it, they've all been rehabilitated, they've been rehabilitated, they've been rehabilitated, they've been renovated, they've had banking reform. We've delivered it safely, that's all I'm saying. Oh, I'll give you their answer if you tell me, but that's the other thing, so we have it all. I only corrected it with one sentence. Otherwise, I could've stood up and said other things, Mr. Ünal. Dear friends, this law is a freak. I mean, we had a long argument the other day, you know. Proposals with a back-to-back proposal, even missing signatures, signatures in our friend's place in a hurry, that kind of weird... It's got everything in it. There are things that aren't related to the Plan and Budget Commission, so it's coming from there, so let's raise the Internet Law, and there's something about the emergency owner, and we forgot, so let's raise him. Here we say to all of our Council of Ministers, but as our former Commissioner, we say to Mr. Elvan, that we entrust you with the honor of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, the Plan and Budget Commission, the legislature and the Assembly. I mean, we have other ministers, and you've done the most work. Let's find a solution, both as a valued colleague of bureaucracy and as our President of the Plan Budget Commission, to end this law-making technique -- Mr. Prime Minister -- as well. Ha, if there's a law, take it, take it, bring it in as a bill from the Council of Ministers, and we'll get more of it done, through the process. I just told you, it's coming in without an impact analysis. We've given up on the OTV, it's unpredictable. Now, inside here, there's a health-care system, no impact analysis, no cost. So we say, you're mortgaged for the next 25 years. There's no need for an impact analysis on this, I gave you numbers again, I gave you numbers over and over again -- Mr. President knows, and so do my dear friends, Mr. Health Minister knows, and so does Mr. Health Minister, and let those who know know, forgive me again, if I have friends who don't know -- I will clearly present them to your mercy now: last year, 2013, when this Health Act came out, there were 88 investments in the 2013 investment programme, and it will all be completed in 2014, 2015. During the commission talks, we invited both the Treasury's Ministry of Development, and the former DPS's undersecretary, and our friends were there. On the other hand, we asked him about YPK decisions: "What is your goal of sleeping in the medium, long term health?," we said, "What is the situation now?" We said, "What is the number of beds in ten thousand? What is your goal?" We said, "Tell us the Turkish." So, well, in the case of the completion of these 88 hospital businesses, of their facility, in 2015, what number are we going to be at, I say, plus 27,000? Now, my mercy, my conscience, I don't understand. On the other hand, there's an YPK decision here, and it says, "Why are we going under all of this, dear friends, if we're going to achieve a mid-term, long-term goal in 2015?" Now, look -- five, one hundred last year, this year's investment program will come back in the coming days, see what's left, what's complete, but there's a freak like this. With Mr. Prime Minister, our Minister of Health is always traveling. Sir, we're setting up city hospitals.....who's going to pay the bill for this? I mean, could there be a model like this? Look, we have studies, we have reports, we have reports of how much damage has been done in Britain, Canada, Ireland, the cradle of this, we have reports of parliament. Investigation commissions have been established. The first one says it costs 87 percent more than the usual tender method. So, right now, there's trouble everywhere, in Australia, Canada, Ireland... I've got articles here, let me show you, newspaper news, and commission reports. Now, on the one hand, we're going to take the Law of Contraction, we're going to take it from there, we're going to forgive this, we're going to make an exception; on the other hand, we're going to put it in a different place in hotels, just like we renovated the stars. Yeah, I told you over and over so you could do a few, okay, try a model, let's see. Why are you putting the state of the Republic of Turkey, this nation, under the cost of the next 25 years, almost 50 billion? I mean, could a model like this be a wholesale model? He's talking this time, our friends, we know the inside, and since I'm saying it at the same time -- Mr. Secretary, he doesn't exist now, but my friends are witnesses -- and our friend, both the expense officer and the auction officer, has arrived, the head of the apartment, he's not authorized, he's signing autographs, does that happen? And then he says: "These contracts have been completed." Who finished them? Some of those contracts are missing signatures. So, normally, we have the authority to be in the head of the department here, where we have the head of the apartment, who has become the head of the regular apartment, who has no authority to sign, who has no knowledge of the KHK, your friends. Hence, such expenditures bring new tax burdens on people. Every deficit in the budget is a new debt on each of us, which brings new taxes like the new EV, VAT, private communication tax to pay for it. Look, there's no way we can make these investments without doing their impact analysis, not doing them this way. Now, some of our friends, who are supposed to be part of our warnings, are bringing the arrangements, but again, they're authorizing the Minister to proceed on the existing contracts. We did, Mr. Secretary. We said it would make you very hard to blame. Why? So, now, is the contract that's finished a new regulation on that in law? If we knew those conditions, we'd be bidding otherwise, other companies would be involved. You remember those words before. When some special benefits, such as the special tax rights granted to TelEKOM, the great businessmen said: "If we had known this, we would have entered the tender. You will enter the contract, and the contract will end, and for the duration of the tender period, for 25 years, I will correct it. There is no such thing. He'll blame the minister, and there'll be a lot of rumors tomorrow, no matter what. And when there's the slightest thing, there's an anchoronoglu just below it. It's looked at as if it's normal. For him, that can't be the way. In the meantime, there must be order, order, organization in the functioning of the state. I told you before: the Ministry of National Education took it apart, and the Ministry of Culture and Tourism said to the island, "What am I going to do?" He took it; the Ministry of Health came and took it. Even the Ministry's headquarters paid so much for these projects, Mr. Secretary, the former minister came to us, and he said: "Let the rural units do it." So now, there's a mess here. The do-and-work model came in, and if the public-private partnership came as a model, it's an organization that will do it one-on-one, within the Ministry of Development, where both the Minister and I are former members. This was set up for this job. That's where the organizational unit is, and it's coordinated. But she's not happy with him, guys. Why? The DPT (DPT) workers are on a rampage. The ministry has already been made for him, not the DPT. So here, all of them had to be conducted in one hand, prioritized, calculated the costs of this, calculated the cost of the public, calculated the alternative costs of the future, and brought here by analysis of the impact. Unfortunately, right now, we're making a one-point arrangement here. We're not fixing this, what are we doing? In order to free someone who's been victimized by previous contracts or to arrange the existing contract... what is it? Only at the Meat Hospital, sir, the place hasn't been delivered. Make a special arrangement. When we give the general contract authority, there's no way we're going to be able to explain it with just good intentions if the Minister gets the authority to edit it himself in a total of twenty-five-five-year bids, millions of dollars, about 50 billion dollars. Especially when it comes to things that are being discussed around here, we don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. He says it's dangerous to give such authority to the Minister, and I give you all respect.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0245par0101	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of his personal name, Konya MP Faruk Bal. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0246par0105	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own. I salute the grand jury. That's the number one bag law, I didn't count it. And I want to know what number it is, though, but it's an unknown, as if the algebra equation is blessed. The only thing that is known, valuable MPs, is that if there's anything in the law that touches AKP's Zulfuyu, put it in the bag. If there is a stone that touches the feet of AKP's co-owners and this is a law, put it in the bag. If there's a stone that touches the foot of the public officials that AKP has made allies of, if it's about a law clause, put it in the bag. If there's a barrier in front of those who want to corrupt the tender, preventing the proceedings of the tender, put it in the bag. If an ally has a tax problem, put it in the bag. If he has a problem with finance, insurance, put it in the bag. If a public servant has abused his duty, if he's a convicted felon, make him a disposable substance, put him in the bag. Bring a bill or a bill of law that changes 20 or 30 unrelated laws before the House. There is no reason in the fingers either, but the AKP did not seek a solution to the problems that Turkey had been through until today, saying, "Put down the finger, put down the finger, put down the finger, put down the finger." This bag of laws is a violation of the Law-making technique, the Constitution, the Civil Code, to the AKP's supporters, the AKP's supporters, and those who support the AKP. There's a nice word for what's done up here, where we have a lisp in our tongue, and it's: rich people steal their cars from mountains and the poor people get confused on the straight road. Now, the AKP has eliminated itself, its ally, its supporter, its supporters, its problems, but its real problem is not in any bag of laws, which are tired of living on the real agenda of Turkey, tired of struggling with problems, are insane. AKP, the bag laws do not have any clauses for 4/C. There are no subcontractors in AKP's bag laws. There is no clause in the bag law that will address AKP's nearly 300,000 nominees -- 40,000 of them expected to be appointed this February. Valuable lawmakers of Turkey, not 3 sides of Turkey, are surrounded by the seas, there are lots of lakes and rivers in it, there are water products, there are water products engineers; they have studied in schools, they have a profession, they can't do anything about their profession, there are no provisions in the bag law. Turkey has entered a period of agricultural collapse, villages have been evacuated, livestock is in a terrible state, thousands of agricultural engineers, veterinarians are waiting for work, there is no substance in the bag law. There are technical teachers in Turkey, technical teachers are taught by the state to inform children in schools, and there is no cure for them in the bag law. There's petty officers, there's petty officers, they're miserable, they're treated like blacks in the army, there's nothing in the bag law. There are specialist sergeants, privates, there's no cure for them in bag law. Famines are coming, droughts are knee-deep, and there's no cure for the tonnage of beet producers in the business of this. Again, because of this famine, the farmer can't give the government the beet he promised, the drought... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He will not be able to benefit from some activities, and there is nothing in the bag law on them. What? We'll see what happens in the future.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0247par0115	Thank you, Mr. Honey. On behalf of the person, Izmir MP Reza Mahmut Turmen. Here you go, Mr. Specten.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0248par0119	Mr. President, these changes to Internet Law 5651 are changes that are incompatible with fundamental rights and freedoms, as is the case with all December 17 laws. The proposals adopted by the Plan and Budget Commission do not solve these problems. So there are two very basic human rights violations here: one is a violation of privacy; the other is a violation of freedom of expression. Regarding the violation of private life, the amendment is necessary in Article 5 of Law 5651. According to this, the providers are obliged to withhold all information, not for more than two years, to collect all information, and at the same time, the providers are obliged to give it to the TİB without a judge's decision if the TİB requires it. This is a violation of privacy. When you look at the Marcher-England case in the European Court of Human Rights, it is considered a violation of privacy, especially when personal data is collected, stored, and given to another authority without a judge's decision. The amendment, accepted by the Plan and Budget Commission, has nothing to do with it. The amendment adopted by the Plan and Budget Commission is related to the demand of this information by court order. If this information is requested by court order, the TİB will take this information and give it to the court, which is different. But this change does not affect the violation of human rights, the violation of privacy, which has been discovered by the amendment to Law 5651. So if the President has any idea of resolving the human rights violation here when he's sending it back, if he's thinking about renegotiating these human rights violations without sending it back, that's not the goal. Secondly, the provision for freedom of expression (9/a) carries serious doubts. In Article 9/a, two separate states are organised. In the first case, if a person claims that his private life has been violated, this claim will be sent to the head of TİB, the president of TİB will report him to the Union, and access will be blocked within four hours without a judge's decision, and access will be blocked without a judge's decision. Twenty-four hours from now, this will be taken to the court of justice. So, first, sir, access will be blocked, then a court order will be issued. This, by itself, is a violation of freedom of expression. I mean, block access first, then get a court order. In the second instance, the TİB has the right to block access to the reseminal if it is a problem to delay. Now, with the change being made, the decision to block this access could be contested, while it has been agreed that the TİB (TİB) would take this decision to the court of civil punishment within 24 hours instead of the appeal. However, the main problem is not being eliminated; access is being blocked again, access is being blocked by the administration's decision, and then a court order is issued. This is a clear violation of freedom of expression. I mean, it's not enough that blocking access is made by an administrative decision, and then going to court is not enough to eliminate the violation of freedom of expression.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0249par0122	What does assault on private life have to do with freedom of speech, Mr. Specten?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0248par0123	However, sir, the court of justice will decide without the opinion of the person exposed to obstruction, which is also a separate violation of the right to a fair trial. When we add all this up, we see that changes in the Plan and Budget Commission are insufficient to eliminate human rights violations that have been created by changes in Law 5651. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0250par0126	Thank you, Mr. Specten. Now, let's move on to the QA section. Fifteen minutes is the answer to the question. I'll take seven minutes to ask questions, eight minutes to answer. Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0251par0130	Thank you. A moment ago, our friend, who lived in the government, the Minister, said: "Sir, talks between Erdogan and his son are unlawfully obtained information." Now, as we understand it, in the December 17th case, Erdogan's son was ordered by the prosecutor's office to rest, the verdict was taken from the court, and the talks between Recep Erdoğan and his son were heard because of that decision. On December 17th, when some ministers' children were searched for their homes at work, Recep Erdogan panicked and phoned his son. My son, look, there's money in the warehouses, so transfer it somewhere, and then we won't get our money caught. But, of course, here, the judge and the police there neglected their duty, and so did the prosecutor, because if they were to raid Erdoğan's son immediately after listening to these talks, they would catch the money in those warehouses. So they neglected their duties. So, in your opinion, how was the rest here made unlawfully?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0250par0132	Thank you, Mr. Young. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0252par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the Prime Minister is sitting in Skopjedar Squash. How many acres of villas, which he, his brother-in-law, and his children live in, are there? And it's also said that these villas have been dug up in the garden. When was this dig done? Why was this dig done? Was there a historical artifact or something in that dig? Has he ever been there, like, an archeologist or something? Can you tell us why this is happening? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0253par0137	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0254par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are very serious allegations about the Minister of Transport who served before you. In particular, this pool is being created, raising around $680 million in money to the media. I can see the businessmen who put money in here. It's pretty much obvious in the tenders the businessmen who invested this money in, specifically, from the Ministry of Transport. As a minister, have you ever been able to get these businessmen to review their tenders through an inspector, do you need such a thing? Is there really a difference here? Again, especially in the Court's reports -- I don't have the report with me now, but -- there's a four-fold difference between the costs. The money paid at 1 billion in 4 railway construction tenders goes up to 4 billion. What's with the four-fold increase? So, these businessmen feel the need to give $100-150 million to a pool media like this because they're making money from them? Otherwise, no one lends money to anyone in a situation like this.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0255par0142	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0256par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we see that 2,385 thousand people have been watching the YouTube recording in one day regarding the corruption records. Again, in the next 24 hours, we see that 7 of Twitter's 10 trend topics are related to corruption. We also see over 2,000 enter into corruption, even before 24 hours are up. That's a sour dictionary record. Obviously, the Internet filter, censorship, and bag laws don't work. Do you plan to pull the plug on the Internet? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0257par0147	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Sour...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0258par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Is it true that the total cost of the 22km-long Kadiköy-Cartal subway, built by the Istanbul Metropolitan Presidency, is 3 billion 100 million Turkish liras? The cost of this line is estimated to be 140 million Turkish liras. Is it possible that someone may have committed corruption or even theft in the construction of the Kadıköy-Cartal Line, given that the cost of the metro line, which is being built by the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications in Ankara, is estimated to be 90 million Turkish liras and the cost of a similar line in İzmir? I'd like to ask the Minister to make a statement on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0259par0152	Thank you, Mr. Sour. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0260par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, why aren't the four ministers being brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? Forty-five days have passed, yet there is no movement, and this issue is being tried to be put to sleep in public. Is this because the ministers' sons are under arrest and the ministers are without arrest? Since when does the Grand National Assembly of Turkey take a position to protect and protect defendants with heavy evidence of criminal activity? The Prime Minister and his son's conversations have hurt us all. Is there going to be an investigation into these conversations? Or will the Grand National Assembly of Turkey cover it up? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0261par0158	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0262par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, after December 17th, you took out the Internet bans to prevent the spread of dirt. After that, you're busy drafting the MIT law so you can get to this information early. You're trying to vaporize evidence that can't be covered by an HSYK law. The last thing you're trying is to get our boys to judge us, even though we're being judged by the special court law. I don't know if you're aware of your disproportionate intelligence. These disproportionate young people are now on the streets in all major cities, especially Ankara, İstanbul, İzmir. Although their voices don't seem to be coming this far, they're moaning all over Turkey. Believe me, I wouldn't want to be in your shoes right now.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0261par0162	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. In particular, regarding yesterday's tape incident, I'd like to point out that it was made by both the PM and myself. Once again, I'd like to say that this was a complete and immoral attack.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0263par0166	We're asking if it's true or false, so stop being immoral.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0264par0167	Tell me whether it's true or not, and never mind the vice. True or false?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0263par0168	True or false? If it's true, if it's not a lie, if it's proven otherwise, will you resign? And I want to say that the political institution is very important to us. For two months, the law's been undermining, the law's been broken, and unfortunately...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0265par0170	For how many years, how many years?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0266par0171	Mr. Secretary, the law has been broken for 12 years. We have political parties who want to use these illegal behavior politically.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0267par0173	Why is it immoral? I don't appreciate it. For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0268par0176	How do you feel about corruption, Mr. Secretary? If we're going to fight for democracy, we have to fight together. Yesterday...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0269par0178	First you judge the theft, then...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0268par0179	Why are those coins hiding? Sir, let me make this clear regarding these corruptions...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0270par0181	You'll take the ministers into the Riza Sarraf spider web, you'll talk about justice, won't you? If you remember... Where's the media pool? Please, please, please. Remember, when the tape about Mr. Baykal came out...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0271par0186	Don't touch that!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0270par0187	Is the investigation wrong?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0272par0188	Mr. President, please, allow the Minister to answer the questions. And when the tape about Mr. MP comes to the agenda...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0273par0191	Why did you commit a crime? Why did you reveal what was done?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0274par0192	The minister is giving a speech. Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0275par0193	Congressmans, please listen to the Minister's statement.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0274par0194	You ask and you don't listen.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0276par0195	They're on trial, he's lying!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0275par0196	Calm down, please...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0277par0197	Is there 30m euros in Baikal's house?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0278par0198	It's 100% true.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0275par0199	Listen, please... Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Unfortunately, our opposition parties didn't even make the necessary defenses.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0279par0202	The money's in the middle! Where did 30 million euros go? If we want to keep the political institution superior, if we really want to make the political institution strong...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0280par0204	We have no right to hold the corruption and corruption ring above us. Please... please... Don't mistake it for corruption and bribery. Friends, please, let me finish my speech, if you'd like to continue. There's an investigation into corruption and corruption! But we've done this growth in Turkey by fighting corruption so far, and we've made it stronger.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0281par0210	What are you talking about fighting?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0280par0211	It's a corruption and corruption ring. Please... There's an investigation into corruption and bribery.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0282par0214	You're the head of corruption! Another thing, dear friends, is that we are banning the Internet specifically for the Internet, bringing censorship to the Internet. I'm so curious, please let a friend of ours explain here, what are we banning? What are we censoring?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0283par0216	Mr. Secretary, yesterday you couldn't enter YouTube. Look, a statement has just been used for the privacy of private life for the Internet Act. It's been said that this individual is entitled to his rights and freedoms...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0284par0218	There is no excuse for bribery and corruption, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0285par0219	You called it the European Court of Human Rights. Please, my friends, excuse me. Allow me to transfer it myself. This means a violation of freedom of expression. A phrase was used. Dear friends, look, on the contrary, we've made an arrangement here that protects the right and freedom of character. The privacy of private life is the victim of one person's...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0286par0222	You're making arrangements to protect him. You make arrangements to protect him, not to protect anyone else! Dear friends, Deniz Baykal has been victimized. No, sir. Resolving the victimship of Deniz Baykal is protecting their right to individual rights and freedom.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0287par0226	It's been years, Mr. Secretary, why didn't you reveal it? Why haven't you discovered it yet? You're the government, why didn't you explain it, who did? But you're saying that the victimship of individuals is not important to us, but the rights of people are violated. There is no such thing. Why don't you explain how it's designed? Who's doing this design work? In the Internet Act, let me state that we have made arrangements for individual rights and freedoms, we have made arrangements for privacy. I suggest you examine it carefully, please. If you examine it carefully, it's very liberal, very open, and it's an arrangement that allows more use of the Internet, on the contrary, which does not ban the Internet. Explain this, Mr. Secretary, who does the political design. We want answers to our questions.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0288par0231	Is he going to answer questions the way you want him to?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0287par0232	Of course, you've got it all figured out! The will of this House and the will of this nation are useless, but you know how to protect your own Prime Minister!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0289par0233	Car, car, car, car, car! Ugh! You're unbelievable! Yeah, he talks, he talks. Listen, listen, you asked, you listen, you listen! Oh, for God's sake! Is that even a thing? Then don't ask! Now, dear friends, if some of them have lost their confidence in the national will, they will resort to other methods and methods if they believe they can't take power from the national will. That's what happened today, that's all.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0290par0235	A license to bribe and steal a national will! Look, there will be elections on March 30th. Why were the ministers taken, Ministers? Why were the ministers taken?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0291par0238	What is the sin of thieves in prison? Please don't be afraid, go to the chest, our people will answer that in the chest.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0290par0240	Why were the ministers taken?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0291par0241	What is the sin of thieves in prison?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0290par0242	Those ministers were taken, huh? No one escapes national will, no one escapes national will. National... Why were these ministers taken? Why were these ministers taken? Please, dear friends, if you're wrong... What precious friends! His investigation is ongoing, ministers sent to him.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0292par0247	Congressmans, please... calm down and let's hear it.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0290par0248	Who are you defending? So you built a pool to create pool media? You swim in the pool, too? You swim in the pool, too? Dear friends, if anything is wrong, the citizen will answer the question, but please, let us respect it. He's still on trial, you say.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0293par0251	Mr. Secretary, what is the sin of thieves in prison?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0290par0252	You swim in the pool, too?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0293par0253	Tell us the sins of the thieves in prison.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0294par0254	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Please, please... please be modest!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0295par0256	Please, of course! How can you say there isn't one? Please know your place, please be modest! He's still on trial.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0296par0259	Mr. President, is there such a procedure, sir? What the hell is this? Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0297par0260	Congressmans, please... listen to the Minister's statement.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0295par0261	How do you say there's nothing going on in the judiciary?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0296par0262	Mr. President, please warn me! Please know your place!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0295par0264	And you know your place! He's on trial, there's an investigation.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0296par0266	Mr. President, please warn me!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0298par0267	Mr. Vural... I didn't accuse you of anything, I didn't accuse you of anything.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0299par0269	Wasn't he taken for bribery and corruption? You can't accuse me like this. Wasn't he taken for bribery and corruption?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0300par0272	Mr. Vural... You can't accuse me like that. You can't accuse me.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0299par0274	Why haven't they been investigated for pool media?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit04spe0300par0275	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. President... Please, I beg you very much. He doesn't have that kind of style or that kind of language. You can't accuse me like that. If you don't prove it, you'll be damned! Congressmans, I'm calling a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0300par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 561. The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Secretary, your word was incomplete. I'll give it back to you for a minute and a half. Here you go, sir. Mr. President, I'd like to make a final statement that Mr. Specten. The European Court of Human Rights has made a decision on the Internet. When we look at this decision, Turkey states that Turkey has made an excessive decision that instead of closing the European Court of Human Rights and the Internet completely, it advises only to close the section that is inconvenient, and it condemns Turkey to pay 30,000 euros in compensation in the lightning resolution. If this existing law on the Internet had continued now, we would have continued to experience these problems. However, with this new arrangement, we see that we have made an appropriate arrangement for this decision by the European Court of Human Rights. What is this? Instead of shutting down the Internet as a whole, it's only being blocked by the new arrangement. So, in a sense, we're following the advice of the European Court of Human Rights here, in this way. I thank you very much, sir. Thank you, Mr. Elvan.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0301par0010	Mr. President, sir, I've asked for your word without a recess, but you haven't been able to make any promises, or rather, you haven't been able to listen to me.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0300par0011	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0301par0012	In his speech, Mr. Secretary has made some assessments of Mr. Baykal (Mr. Baykal) as the reason for these arrangements and cited it as the reason for the Internet arrangement. No, I gave it as an example, just an example. Therefore, due to this assessment of our former President, Mr. Deniz Baykal, I would like to make a statement in accordance with Article 69, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0302par0015	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0301par0017	Mr. President, there is only one reason for new regulations, new restrictions brought to the Internet. Because of the December 17th bribery and corruption investigation, it is the prevention of news, tweets against the government, which occurred on both social media and other fields, on the Internet. He has no other purpose. In fact, if the government wanted to take precautions regarding the incident in 2010, regarding Mr. Deniz Baykal, if they wanted to take the incident as a precedent and take a precaution for this poor practice, then this measure could be taken. When does he go down this road? December 17th is applied after the investigation into bribery and corruption and is sought by Mr. Deniz Baykal to ensure the legitimacy of this arrangement. To be honest, I don't find this explanation sincere. I know the Minister's good intentions for doing the ministry, but this statement is not true, Mr. Secretary, so please don't make that statement. The only purpose of the restrictions imposed on the Internet is to cover up the investigation of bribery and corruption. Mr. Riza Turmen has made the necessary statements here. The ECHR has a decision, it's a decision of lightning. At the time, even the ban on a website based on a judge's decision was taken as the uncertainty of the ECHR legislation, and it was considered a violation of human rights. These regulations are in no way in accordance with the decisions of the ECHR. I agree with a statement from Mr. Minister: the law has been undermining Turkey for two months. Yes, law has been undermined by the government in Turkey since two months.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0303par0021	Twelve years, not two months.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0301par0022	My respects to all of you, good evening.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0304par0024	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. President... Here you are, Mr. Elvan. Thank you, Mr. President. In particular, Mr. Akif Hamzacebi has stated that the law has been put under the influence of the government. Everybody knows the law's been put under the table. A tape policy has begun in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0305par0029	You did it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0306par0030	12 years under the law, Mr. Secretary, 12 years. Turkey has been out of law for 12 years. Everyone knows who made this tape, who released these illegal practices. I wanted to express that in particular. And secondly, here, dear friends, the arrangement brought in by the Internet law, the first, is a provision that protects the rights and freedom of character. I mean, personality rights, if you examine them carefully...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0307par0033	You bring it to cover up the corruption of Recep Tayyip, to cover up the corruption of Recep Tayyip. The second is an arrangement that prevents the victim of the individual, the privacy of private life. Now, here we want a court order, no matter what circumstances... Is there a trial left? But in the event of delay, the TİB is in the process of obstructing the presidency, and within 24 hours, the court has to submit it to the court within 48 hours. Therefore, there is an absolute court order in all such matters, whether it is traffic information, whether it is for privacy or for violation of personal rights. We need to know that, and you know that in many developed countries in the world, many of them have been prevented without a court order. But there will be no obstruction without a court order in Turkey. So let's be aware of this, but in many developed countries, we all know that obstruction is happening, without a court order, when you want to enter that site, you get an article, and this site is not available. But that site was blocked by that country. We're obviously making a very clear, very transparent arrangement. But please, let's not take this any further. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0308par0040	Thank you, Mr. Elvan.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0309par0041	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0308par0042	Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0309par0043	I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, but he can't say, is the content of these tapes true or false? So that's what we want.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0310par0044	How would he know if he's a judge or a judge? How right or wrong!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0309par0045	Is the content right or wrong? Bribery, corruption, theft can't be closed with the secrecy of private life, it can't be covered up...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0311par0046	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0309par0047	Nowhere in the world, in any morality, in any religion, in any society... bribery, theft is immoral.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0311par0048	Mr. Tanal, that's what you said in the QA section. The Minister's answers are obvious. [[Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, ……]] Now the talks on chapter two are complete. I'll submit the clauses in the second section to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. The first article of the second chapter begins with the 14th article. There are three motions on Article 14: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the "and" declaration in Article 14 of the current 561 row bill be replaced by "to" in accordance with its statement. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposal of law 561 be changed in the form of its reference in the framework of Article 14 of the framework. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Erkan Akçay Lütfü Türkkan Şişek Güçük T. B. To the presidency of the National Assembly Fourteen of the proposed law. We would like to see the expression changed to the value index at the end of the article. Ferit Mevlüt Aslandoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Rahmi Küreli of Love Haluk Eyidoğan Ali Sarıbaş İstanbul Çanakkale Does the Commission agree with my latest motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0312par0074	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0311par0075	Government? We can't participate, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0313par0078	Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0311par0079	Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0314par0081	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear friends, I salute you all with love. In fact, there has been a complete tragedy in Turkey since last night, but everything is being done to cover it up, and the agenda is being changed again. The picture now appears: In his statement at the group meeting today, Mr. Prime Minister said that these tapes or these tapes were totally blackmailed, but he certainly does not deny it. He does not deny it. He does not say it is my speech.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0315par0085	He did.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0316par0086	He's lying.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0314par0087	No. So he says he's been blackmailed, he says he's been blackmailed, he says he's been blackmailed. He says it's completely edited.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0317par0089	They say it's not the truth, it's not the truth.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0314par0090	He says it's being edited.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0318par0091	I mean, there's no such thing as such a twist. Mr. Suleyman, it's rude!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0314par0092	Guys, look, I didn't give that kind of speech. He doesn't say that.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0318par0093	My brother says, what does that mean?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0314par0094	No. I did not have such a conversation with my child.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0319par0095	It's called montage.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0320par0096	It's editing, it's editing.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0314par0097	So, that's why, completely...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0321par0098	Ya, look, now, about Kemal Kilicdaroglu... tell me, it's about Kilicdaroglu, tell me what you're going to say to him!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0314par0099	Now, dear friends, new editing can be produced.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0321par0100	Did it ever work out for you, right?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0314par0101	He says, "This is not my statement."
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0321par0102	Yeah, that's what he said!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0322par0103	Okay, the Prime Minister said it, said it today, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0314par0104	...he'll come on this stand, and he'll answer for it here, and he'll say it. So first, we see very clearly what this has come to today. The second important issue, my dear friends, is that now, our Deputy Leader of the Group has said that either the references to these arrangements are related to our former President, Mr. Deniz Baykal, or that they are a reference point to the operation against the MHP. However, since that year... since 2010, there have been so many proposals, there have been various proposals of law around here, four years, ten years, this government has been asked to correct them, but they haven't been corrected. How long have we been dealing with this? December 17th is an important turning point, but before December 17th, a new operation was launched, including the process that was carried out there, as well as the integrity of the actions in Gezip. What's in this operation? In this operation, my dear friends, there is complete censorship. You know, on September 12th, books were collected, sort of lined up, the September 12th junta, military administration applied some censorship, and now a new censorship has been rebooted. Do not view this censorship as an arrangement for the Internet alone, but look at the overlapping laws, the arrangements for the HSYK, the arrangements for the Internet that are now being made, the arrangements for the Ministry of National Education, with the MIT Act...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0323par0107	What's wrong with that? What's in the Ministry of National Education?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0314par0108	What? That's where the assignments are, and there's everything about the creation of the fear community. So...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0324par0109	Don't give the speech you don't believe in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0314par0110	I do it with a lot of faith. He's a total terror society creationist, a total...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0325par0112	You see who created the fear community, what kind of blackmail and dark world is created with dark tapes, editing, and you support it.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0314par0113	We're seeing how fear society is created, what kind of threat people are being made to be held, and that's what's happening right now. That's what I'm saying based on the whole legal arrangement. It's a complete censorship, a total pressure regime, at a point where the system is headed towards a dictatorship. I am now making a call to our people, and the dear President is here. Dear Uður Mumcu had a beautiful saying: "We have been shot, O my people, remember us." I say, "O my people, keep yourself awake." And I call out because this process is a process of robbery, this process is a process of total oppression, this process is a process of fascism. It is our duty to resist. I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0326par0117	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposal of law 561 be changed in the form of its reference in the framework of Article 14 of the framework. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0327par0124	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0326par0125	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0328par0129	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I bid you all good evening. Dear lawmakers, this country has seen many prime ministers, all of them with different features. We ask God's mercy for those who go on forever, and long life for those who live. They've all had their services in this country, God bless the one who puts them on stone. The important thing is, precious MPs, to be able to leave a nice sound under that dome. Politics, active politics will end one day for everyone. The important thing is, there's no words to be said that'll make him blush. Look at the graves, the graveyards full of mortals who think they're indispensable. Our elders say. As our elders say, dear friends, the important thing is that we don't do things that will make us blush, embarrass us. I've always looked at the matter personally: what a person says is right, what he says is wrong, what matters is finding the truth and keeping it pure behind him. There's a lot of criticism on the stand, but you can't take these criticisms to the squares, to the streets. Even though the truth is painful, we all need to be accepted as a beacon in our lives. When the Creator commands that he will forgive even rights violations, he says, "Do not come before me with the rights of the servant." He says, "Indeed, he considers arrogance to be a partner." He doesn't like to make fun of people's shortcomings, nor to boast about them, O Lord. There's a Prime Minister in front of the nation who can do anything for election victory, put any value under the table, use it as a political style to play with the dignity and dignity of the people. I'm afraid your hand, your tongue, has no manners, no style of a statesman. He has already said that anger is a political style for me. There are precious friends, arrogance, humiliation, contempt, violation of the rights of the subject. Mr. President's so-called not-married-to-be-married-to-be-have-not-have-a-child-to-have-be-children-is kidding. He's trying to get something political with a low blow, not a bad one. In fact, he doesn't realize that he's actually making a fool of himself. I suppose the reactions are coming to you, too, precious MPs. People looking for us, texting us, coming up to us, talking face-to-face, especially the ladies, one of them says, "I've been married for 18 years. I didn't have any children, God didn't give me any. I've been voting for the AK PARTY since 2002, even if my hands had been broken. My ladyship mocks my honor as a woman, despises me, despises me, denies my rights. Erdoğan insults thousands of childless families as he vomits his anger. Maybe we have friends in your midst who are in this situation. Dear friends, our President-General has told us that both marriage and death are written by God, and whether to have a child or whether to go out tomorrow is still a matter for the Creator. There's a saying in Asia Minor: "The bride is riding a horse." There is nothing but the will of God to marry and to have children. And then, you, me, Mr. Prime Minister, we have a child, and we're in the middle of something? May God grant everyone good children. He gives sons to some, he makes the world a prison, he makes the world a prison, he makes the children of the people a son to others. These words are lack of faith, more than impropriety. This needs to be known by the people of the best faith. If he doesn't know, it's either his ignorance or his lack of faith. Mr. Erdogan must apologize to all the families who didn't have children, who didn't.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0329par0133	May God grant them three children.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0328par0134	And every member of parliament or member of parliament who fears God and is ashamed of the subject must react to these words and to remind the Prime Minister that he has no right to play with the dignity of the people, this Parliament and our nation must remind him, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0330par0136	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the clause "and" in Article 14 of the current 561 rows of the law be changed by the terms "to" in accordance with the terms of the 14th article. Secrets Sakık (Muhs) and his friends Does the commission agree with my motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0331par0143	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0330par0144	The government... We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0332par0146	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0330par0147	I'm reading the reason: With this change, the text was intended to be more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 14th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 15th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the 15th Article of the framework of the proposed law in 561 rows to the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Korkmaz Seyfettin Yilmaz Erkan Akçay "UNDDE 15/4/5/2007's versions of Article 2 of Article 2 (j) and (ö) of Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law on the Editing of Broadcasts and Fighting Crimes Through These Broadcasts have been changed as follows. "j) Traffic information: IP address on sides, start and end time of service given, type of service used, amount of data transferred and subscriber identity information if available The release of content from the broadcast: the removal of content from servers or from hosting content by content or from the accession of the content from the IPs from the Republic of Turkey, which is located abroad." Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same. I'm going to read these motions, and I'm going to process them together, and I'm going to make a separate promise to those who have motions at their request. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the removal of Article 15 of the current 561 row bill. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani The signatures of the other motion are: Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu İzzet Cetin Balık Köse Vahap Picks the Rahmi of Love Jalal Dinçer Müslüm Sarı İlhan Demirözıs Osman Oktay Soşi Does the commission agree with these two proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0333par0179	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0330par0180	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Sour, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0334par0184	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, a proposal has come to you a few hours after Mr. President's signature, as a respected friend of mine expressed before me today, a recent amendment to the Internet law. I believe this high-ranking delegation's incompetence in lawmaking has been a historic record. Because of this proposal, the opinion of the President was also public. According to him, the President expressed satisfaction with the amendment, the change that had come before you, and therefore signed the law. What is the serious reason for the opinion of Mr. President? I have studied the law myself. It's a change of words, unfortunately, not only in the final form of your presence, but in a very mild way, which has severely narrowed down the freedom of communication that is being implemented by the Internet -- Mr. Minister's reverse opinion -- and has taken away even the opportunity to talk about our democracy. What's being done? Switching four items, adding a joke. It's just that the obligation to appeal to the court, which has been imposed on the citizens, has been transferred to the administration. I'd like to tell you from the very beginning that there is nothing that can be taken seriously and is fundamentally important. Respected lawmakers, in this time of political power, when it comes to freedom of communication that we use through the Internet, our country, unfortunately, is at the 58th level among the 80 countries, according to international measurements, so it's very close to the bottom. This is an evaluation of 2012. But today, with the change in 2014, I think it's possible to say that even if we're no longer 80, we've gone down to be 79. My dear friends, contrary to what Mr. Minister, who has expressed that our freedoms have been expanded in this regard, unfortunately, our situation with the Internet is that we are facing a fundamentally opposite reality, given that we live in a country where 36,000 users, or more like 36,000 sites, are banned. It's not possible in the civilized world to find another country that has been banned so broadly. This new law, which has been passed, will bring Turkey down even further than that, and will reveal a truth that leads us out of the civilized world. As a matter of fact, there are a lot of people who have expressed that the change in the Internet law in Turkey, of the entire civilized world and the political world, was a coup to a democracy so important that even our relations with the European Union would be compromised. If you take into account these facts, I would like to make it very clear to the majority members here, members of the party, who are the majority, that if you consider that the Prime Minister's remarks on the websites were banned in 20 minutes -- even though they were removed from the websites last night -- were distributed to 2,200,000. No matter how hard you try, you won't be able to forbid freedom of communication to the end in any way; it's a multitested game, and you'll get the same result. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0335par0190	Thank you, Mr. Sour.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0336par0191	We've got enough to decide... Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0335par0193	Here you are, Mr. Elvan. Mr. President, Mr. Ekshi has stated that the arrangement here, especially for myself, is cosmetic. First of all, the first of the changes is that we went here to narrow it down to the definition of traffic information, and we were given a description that is in all developed countries, which is now under the directive of the entire European Union. Secondly, an regulation has been made that traffic information cannot be used by the head of the TİB without an absolute court order, and all information, traffic information, is subject to a court order. Third, the decision of the authority of the authority to state its statement in Article 22 of our Constitution -- the decision of the TİB presidency -- will be submitted to the judge's approval within 24 hours, following the mandate to close the TİB presidency for privacy, if there is a problem with its delay. The judge explains his decision within forty-eight hours; otherwise, the decision will automatically be lifted. Thus, the issue specified in Article 22 of the Constitution is placed here. Finally, I'd like to point out that there has been a serious ban on the Internet in particular, that around 36,000 sites have been banned. Of course, under that number, let me express it specifically. 36,000 is not the right number.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0337par0199	40 grand, actually, and I'm 36 grand... Second, 99.9% of these sites, closed sites, are all about child pornography and obsceneness. In particular, the number of sites closed for personal rights and freedoms does not go past the fingers of one hand. I wanted to express it. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0338par0202	Thank you, Mr. Elvan.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0337par0203	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0338par0204	Here you go, Mr. Sour.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0337par0205	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has made a mistake with the transfer of my privacy. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to correct his mistake.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0338par0206	Here you go, Mr. Sour.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0337par0208	My dear friends, the 36,000 digits I've expressed are from international sources. Some bureaucrats in the Republic of Turkey may have been cheating on the Minister to reduce some facts. The second point, Mr. Secretary here has just passed on information about traffic and his assessment of it. In fact, in a few days' time, you will see that the information on the content will be requested by the government, by a unit of the state, except for information on traffic in the MIT agency law, which will come before you. Then a completely contrary fact will be revealed to all of you in this date -- in about eight hours' time -- by the minister. I wanted to bring this to your attention. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0339par0212	Thank you, Mr. Sour. I'm reading the reason for the Peace and Democracy Party's motion: This arrangement suggests that it does not eliminate anti-democratic practices in the internet law passed by parliament, but indirectly activates the court for traffic information. In practice, it does not eliminate anti-democratic regulations brought by the law. I submit to your votes these two motions of the same nature: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the 15th Article of the framework of the proposed law in 561 rows to the following way. "UNDDE 15/4/5/2007's versions of Article 2 of Article 2 (j) and (ö) of Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law on the Editing of Broadcasts and Fighting Crimes Through These Broadcasts have been changed as follows. "j) Traffic information: IP address on sides, start and end time of service given, type of service used, amount of data transferred and subscriber identity information if available The release of content from the broadcast: the removal of content from the servers or from the hosted content by content or from the accession of content or residential providers abroad" Mustafa Kalaycı (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0340par0225	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0339par0226	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Honey, here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0341par0230	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers will write down the history of Parliament, talk about three important features when it comes to 11 years of AKP power: one, the bag law; two, the dictatorship in the name of democratisation, and three, finger democracy. Regarding the bag laws, the AKP takes the stones that touch its feet one by one in front of itself and its followers, regardless of its interest, its relationship, and puts them in a bag so that they can benefit from finger democracy. In this bag law, I've just stated that, as the AKP's people prospered, the AKP's supporters smuggled obstacles across the mountain one by one, and the poor were surprised on the straight road. There is no improvement in these bag laws regarding subcontractors; there is no improvement in the 4/C. There is no suggestion of the exchanges that have arisen in the face of devaluation of around 25 per cent since December 17th; there is no proposal for 40,000 teachers waiting to be appointed; there is no provisions for water products engineers, technical teachers, petty officers, specialists; there is no provision for food shortages, food shortages; there is no tong punishments that are now in trouble for pantarians. So, it's just, and it's just the AKP's operation to silence media spaces to hide the tapes, tapes, millions of dollars in boxes, which have appeared since December 17th, in the process and in the process that we live in. Dear MPs, there are three types of press: the first is written press, newspaper, mecmua, etc. Second, visual press, television. And the third one is Internet space. When we look at the first-gen press, the AKP has somehow driven those who have touched, criticized, and disliked the AKP, out of their newspapers. I'd like to mention to you the names of only those known or known to the public: Banu Güven, Nuray Mert, Oktay Ekşi, Flood Turkenç, Emin Desertasaşan, Bekir Coshkun, Cüneyt Ulver, Can Dündar, Ruşen Çakır, Yavuz Baydar, Haluk Şahin, Deniz Country Arıboğan, and many newspaper workers, columnists, columnists and editors of the AKP (AKP) have been expelled from their newspapers by instructions or by the Prime Minister. My dear friends, this situation in the written press has been seen in the visual media. In the visual media, a new line has been established: the Alo Fatih Line. The Prime Minister, who did not tolerate a couple of sentences in the subtitles of our President-General's television, has said that he is from Morocco. By instructing the conqueror, he also removed freedom of expression, political freedom, the right to public information, making visual media this way. This, of course, is an area that spreads across the Internet, and this law has come here to prevent safes, boxes, millions of dollars, tapes, tape tapes from being spread across the Internet. However, if Mr. President of the Chankaya Mansion has removed the clause of this law, it is a disgrace to the genius of democracy, which demonstrates the state of finger democracy, which is the head of this brilliant executive body, the President of this parliament has demonstrated that some arrangements are being made from this parliament, which has nothing to do with democracy, which has nothing to do with freedom of the press. The gist of it is that during the Justice and Development Party, the press is banned, and the press is censored during the Justice and Development Party period. That's the brand of democracy, and that's what the AKP's democratic label is for.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0342par0238	Thank you, Mr. Honey. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The 15th article...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0343par0241	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit05spe0342par0242	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. [[There's the AK PARTY lines, there's the voices!]] Congressmans, there are 139 people here. If you say there's enough to decide, but there's not enough to go around. I'll give you ten minutes for that.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0342par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Article 15 of Law Proposal 561 was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the item back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient; the 15th article is accepted. There are four motions on the 16th article, the two are the same property, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 16 of the Law Proposal 561, we propose that the fourth clause added to Article 3 of Law 5651 be removed from the text of Article 3 and the other joke be identified accordingly. Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of the law proposal in 561 rows, as follows, in the framework of Article 16 of the law. Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Korkmaz Seyfettin Yılmaz Faruk Bal "The third joke of Article 3 of Law 16 - 5651 has been changed as follows, and the following jokes have been added to the article. This law provides notifications only to those who conduct their activities within the country, through the electronic complaint mechanisms they set up to receive notifications under the law. Reports for those operating abroad are made in accordance with international agreement provisions, which Turkey is a party to. The content, location and access providers are not responsible for the notifications that have not been made in accordance with the sentence of this joke."' The presidency can ask for traffic information requested by the Court under the third joke of Article 4 of this Law, the fifth joke of Article 5 and the first joke of Article 6 (d). (5) Traffic information is provided only by the presidential content provider, locator and/or access provider if a criminal investigation and/or prosecution is demanded by the courts." The two motions I'm going to make now are the same. I'm going to read these motions together and process them, and I'm going to promise them separately if they want them to. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the removal of Article 16 of the current bill 561 rows. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani The signatures of the other motion are: Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu İzzet Cetin Vahab Selects Flood Köse Mehmet Ali Sesam İlhan Demiröz Müslim Sarı Aykan Erdemir Rahmi Kürünler of Love Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0344par0041	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0342par0042	Government? Mr. President, we are not participating, but I would like to express in particular that these motions and traffic information are not subject to a court order. I mean, the president of TİB would have access to traffic information without a court order, which means. Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the motion, Mr. Erdemir. Here you go, Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0345par0048	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and our citizens who are watching us on television and computer screens, if we're still not off the air. First, Mr. Secretary, with all due respect, I must begin by criticizing you and the Council of Ministers. These changes aimed at patching the bag law, which is also referred to as the Minarey Law No. 5651, with a new bag of legislation, have led to disappointment, if you do not understand, and these changes aimed at patching the bag law that led to Internet Law 5651 with a new bag of legislation. As far as we can see from here, the hole is big, it doesn't hold a patch, so let me explain. Yesterday, two million 385 thousand people watched the record of bribery, corruption, theft, shamelessness, shamelessness, and immorality on YouTube before 24 hours had been completed, 7 (7) of Twitter's 10 (trend topic) corruption. In the 24 hours of the Sour Dictionary, 1.988, a record was entered and a record was broken.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0346par0053	Look what the squares say!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0345par0054	I can't help but ask, is the Telecommunications Communications Chairman in line?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0346par0055	Look at Sivas. Look at Yozgat.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0347par0056	You just said the same thing. Are you forgetting what you're saying?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0345par0057	Is TİB President Ahmet Cemalettin Steel asleep?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0346par0058	Look at what everyone's saying!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0345par0059	Ahmet Bey was head of the listening unit at MIT.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0346par0060	Have you seen Sivas?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0345par0061	Just seven days after December 17th, you showed the world the vastness of your vision by appointing him president of TİB, but clearly that's not enough.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0346par0062	Yozgat... have you seen the Yozgat rally?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0345par0063	Can you think of a line at this stage? Please don't see too many people in this country who work as efficiently as the Conqueror, who shut down the Internet as they ordered the Prime Minister to wear it! Turkey is so weak, Turkey is so weak, Turkey doesn't deserve such useless censorship and filters. We expect you to provide the necessary censorship technologies as soon as possible. North Korea, China, Iran, Saudi Arabia... let's find the most advanced printing technique, the most advanced censorship technique, we'll pay for it. Let's save you the power of being the most incompetent of all authoritarian countries. Look, from Travel Park to today, from December 17th to today, we're all satisfied that young people who use disproportionate intelligence are exploiting your censorship and filter. My advice is to pull the plug on the Internet. The Prime Minister has already said that social media is a pain in the ass. He said, "Not with Twitter, you will feel the smell of dung." He pointed to Turkey's knowledge society and the vision of IT. The Internet also lives without it as long as it has sound will. Dear lawmakers, do not be afraid; I will not use recordings, tapes, and photographs that have occupied the public today (December 17th) to criticize bribery, corruption, theft, brazenness, and immorality, and corruption, which is not in my possession. In order to grasp the plots in this country, there is no need for records, tapes, and photographs; it is enough for a man to have a little sense and a conscience, a sense of right and law. I still don't need these bribes, corruption and theft records to reset the AKP's power. When you young children refused to kill Abdullah, Mehmet, Ethem, and Medeni, and Ali, and Ahmad, for the sake of the rant, and for the sake of the camp, I reset you, as did most of our citizens.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0348par0066	We'll know who the citizen resets, soon.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0345par0067	Again, when you changed the name of a contractor who said that the Faculty of Theology of Marmara would put its name on the side of this nation, which is Yunus Emret, who is Mr. Prime Minister's best friend, yes, when Jonah changed the name of the contractor to that contractor, I reset you to such a level that neither Bilal's 30m euros were left behind. I've reset you so much that I have nothing more to say to your administration. May God set your ball right. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the voices, the amens, the amens, the amens.]] Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0349par0070	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: This arrangement violates the principle of protecting personal information and data in addition to the negativity of the anti-democratic internet law passed by parliament. Therefore, we demand and demand the removal of the relevant substance. I submit to your votes these two motions of the same nature: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of the law proposal in 561 rows, as follows, in the framework of Article 16 of the law. "The third joke of Article 3 of Law 16 - 5651 has been changed as follows, and the following jokes have been added to the article. This law provides notifications only to those who conduct their activities within the country, through the electronic complaint mechanisms they set up to receive notifications under the law. Reports for those operating abroad are made in accordance with international agreement provisions, which Turkey is a party to. The content, location and access providers are not responsible for the notifications that have not been made in accordance with the sentence of this joke."' The presidency can ask for traffic information requested by the Court under the third joke of Article 4 of this Law, the fifth joke of Article 5 and the first joke of Article 6 (d). (5) Traffic information is provided only by the presidential content provider, locator and/or access provider if a criminal investigation and/or prosecution is demanded by the courts." Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0350par0084	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0349par0085	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Honey, here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0351par0089	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, once again I stand before you and salute you all. I've tried to express the relationship between freedom of the press and democracy in the articles I've been promised before. Yeah, we said the press had three places. One of them is written: newspapers, mecmua and poets. I explained that during the 11-year period of the AKP government, columnists were dismissed by instructions, by the Prime Minister's orders, over the face, and thus controlled the written press. Regarding the visual media, I also meant all the channels of the Alo Fatih (Alo Fatih) lines that were established, and all the channels that were not only associated with one television channel, and all the channels that were friendly, and were frightened, and were intimidated by tax debts or tax fines. However, we also listened in today's speech and in their previous talks, Mr. Prime Minister insisted on settling down with them, pointing to television channels that were left behind by a few weak and very weak broadcast spaces. It's time for the Internet. Of course there's a problem with the Internet, precious MPs. For 11 years, the AKP's government had this problem. At least we know that the National Movement Party has been heard, it has been broadcast on the Internet, and the evidence has been forwarded to the authorities by the National Movement Party. We have announced to the authorities that a person named Omar Faruk Bayindir has organized this business, including the National Movement Party's publications and images on the Internet channels.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0352par0092	Ibrahim Faruk...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0351par0093	Who is Omar Faruk Bayındir? He is a member of the AKP's municipal council. What did he do? When are you going to publish it on your own phone, on your own phone, on a website on the American continent? How will you publish it? It has been determined that he has spoken many times. Phone number's a given. Two: This person has paid for the publication on his credit card, and his credit card has a number. Three: Black, equipped, windows blackened, monitoring the National Movement Party, and photos of this vehicle have been reported. We asked the minister, did you find the perpetrator? He said, "Mr. Bashir Atalay, we didn't find it. There were members of the MIT who were with him. During the talks, did you find it?" No, they said they couldn't find it. And through these images, Mr. Prime Minister finished the vote by saying "General, general..." It's time for December 17. December 17th, December 25th and January 2nd, three very important dates in the history of democracy and corruption. The problems with corruption and bribery that occurred at these times have made AKP very uncomfortable because it was an operation that reached its ministers, its children, and from there to the Prime Minister and his children. In this operation, the AKP was frightened, alarmed, and panicked, but first the police were defeated with rights. Then he took the files from the judges and prosecutors. The Minister of Justice examined the fezlekes for 45 days. He identified the evidence and possible suspects within these, took the necessary precautions, and the instructions rained down. These instructions were instructed to the judiciary, instructed the police, and told them to stop the investigation. The day came, when the work came to the press, and the AKP came to its senses. This law was introduced on the Internet to prevent corruption, deeds, speeches, and images from being published. Just as the HSYK was transformed into the AKP's branch, as was the law on classrooms and operations conducted in the police force, Turkey was dragged into a path towards AKP's dictatorship. My dear friends, all of this is not something that can be removed by your fingers, but by someone who knows. Indeed, the Dhu al-Qarnael [i.e. the Taurat (Torah) and the Injeel (Gospel), the Injeel (Gospel), the Injeel (Gospel), the Injeel (Gospel), the Injeel (Gospel), the Injeel (Gospel), the Injeel (Gospel) ] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And then there's the courtroombra in the afterlife. In this world, perhaps you can do with your fingers, but in the next world, only the Almighty knows where to go.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0353par0101	Thank you, Mr. Honey. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 16 of Law Offer 561, we propose that the fourth joke added to Article 3 of Law 5651 be removed from the text of the article and the other joke be identified accordingly. Ahmet Aydın (Adıyaman) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0354par0108	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0353par0109	Government? We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0355par0111	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0353par0112	I'm reading the reason: Traffic information only requested by the Telecommunication Communication Presidency has been intended to be requested. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause will be discussed on the motions the commission has already attended, and the number of motions laid out in this article may be submitted. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the commission participates in the motion with the majority of the 21 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause, and I will take the motion which the commission simply disagrees with most of the time. Now, I'm going to read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following clause be added after Article 16 of the current 561 Law Proposal and that other substances be identified accordingly. Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Faruk Bal Seyfetttin Yilmaz S. Nevzat Don't Fear The third, fourth and fifth joke of Article 5 of Law 17-5651 has been changed in the following way and the sixth joke has been added to the article. 3) The locator is obliged to store traffic information on the contents of the communication it provides and not allow it to be heard, and to maintain its integrity and secrecy for as long as it can be established in the regulation, not less than six months and not more than two years. (4) Traffic information can only be obtained from the presidential provider and/or access provider if a criminal investigation and/or prosecution is demanded by the courts. (5) The ground provider can explain information and documents, however, through personal data he obtained based on open authority in the law, based on the demands made by public institutions and organisations and the demands made by the judicial authorities based on the court's decision. As part of this joke, the information and documents requested to be used for what purpose will be used, the authority in demand, the limitation of the request to the purpose, the commitment and protection measures to ensure that information is used only for the purpose. As long as the provisions in this joke remain hidden, the ground provider submits to the presidency the information that the President has demanded in accordance with this gag order as part of its duties with these Laws and other Laws, and takes presidential measures, limited to the fulfillment of the obligations imposed on the providers of this law. Decisions of international judicial aid agreements, which Turkey is part of, are carried out in the requests for information to be submitted to the foreign-based ground providers. (6) Traffic data can't ask for more information on traffic information" Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0356par0131	I have to invite the commission, Mr. President. Mr. Kalayci and his friends have a motion for a new substance violation, I would like to call the Commission.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0357par0133	Say: 'I invite our people, come.' The AKP Group was involved.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0356par0134	Mr. President, it's been decided that the Commission cannot meet, and can't attend most of the time.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0358par0135	Wait a minute. They're coming.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0356par0136	I don't see anyone coming. We don't have a majority, we can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0359par0138	Mr. President, our friends are still coming.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0360par0139	I'm on my way. I'm on my way.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0359par0140	We have more of our own weight.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0361par0141	21 people are here because I can't see...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0362par0142	There's a majority here, sir. There's a majority here. One for three, one for four.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0361par0143	Yes, now that the Commission has not joined the motion with a majority, I'm dismissing the motion. Now, let's move on to item 17. There are three motions on the 17th article, two of which are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and submit the following amendment to the law proposal in 561 rows, in the framework of Article 17 as follows. Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Korkmaz Seyfettin Yilmaz Erkan Akçay "The first chapter of Article 8 of Article 17-5651 was changed in the following way and the following jokes were added to the article. In relation to the publications conducted in the Internet environment, which have a strong cause for suspicion of the following crimes, it can be decided that access to the child, youth and family may be prevented, in accordance with the principle of proportionality. Access to the entire web site cannot be blocked if the content in the entire website does not carry the conditions clearly. " According to this article, the judge's decision in the investigation process and the judge's decision given under Article 9th and 9/A are issued by the Supreme Court of Judges and Prosecutors in the areas of which there are more than one criminal court. (16) Under this law, access providers to block URL-based access are provided for by the establishment of and operating costs of the system to provide it from the budget of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications. The issues related to the use of the grant are determined by regulations issued by the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications. Information Technologies and Communication Institution shall determine the rules for the blocking of URL-based access system by the access providers, its establishment, its operation, and the issues related to privacy and security. Now, I'm going to have two proposals in common, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the removal of Article 17 of the current 561 Numbered Law Proposal. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani The signatures of the other motion are: Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu İzzet Cetin Vahab Selects Mehmet Ali Sesame Tutor Köse Rahmi Love Türeli Müslim Sarı İlhan Demiröz Celal Dinçer Does the commission agree with two proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0363par0174	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0361par0175	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Aksinger, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0364par0179	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. While the expectations of this law were at the point of the President's veto... there was such a reasonable man in the country. Of course, that reasonable man did not veto the Internet law on conjunctural or different phone traffic, but I want to say that these four laws have no chance of changing anything. I'm having trouble understanding one thing: what if you're making fools of the people in this country, or who are we? I'm just saying, what's the difference between an IP address and an URL address? Let's say a man commits a crime, you'll find that man. If you're just tracking the guy's IP address, can you find anything criminal after you don't know the address he went to? No way. I mean, why are you telling people this? You're just talking about it in order to manage a perception, and it's like, you know, there's this kind of story, there's this weird public response, and we're going to change three or four things, and people are going to say -- look, there's a public reaction, we've lightened the work in some materials -- and let them say, "Well, he's moved on to narrow down the freedoms." Madam Secretary, what you're saying isn't true either. You gave the example of Ireland in the Commission, here's the example of England. Thousands of places... you said certain words were forbidden. I'm talking to him myself, it's not an issue. We all know that we are completely against 5651, because of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. The catalogue crimes of Article 8 have been determined by you as to what is in the criminal law and what is in the hands of the bureaucrat in this country, so you have eliminated the judgment there. Now, if Turkey's been destroyed, you've done the demolition in Turkey. You set up listening commissions, you didn't honor them. You wrote recommendations on those wiretap commissions, and you didn't write anything else. Friends know, nothing has been written there, even laughed at some issues; most of the places have not actually been dusted, most of them haven't been dusted. What did we say the National Intelligence Agency would do? They said it was because of intelligence. Didn't you build it? The Prime Minister himself didn't give you what you wanted. Did you give him security, or did you give him intelligence, or did the national intelligence stay here? Now that we're talking about it, you think you can handle it by bringing in an Internet ban? Technically, we've already told you that's impossible. Don't beat yourself up. 2,300,000 people clicked on it. Block it if you can. It's not possible. That's not what this was about. So many bad things have been done in this country that in the past, all the states have been destroyed... One of the friends came out, and he said: "Everyone needs the law." Yes, that's right, that's right, that's right. When there were lawsuits, no one would get up and make speeches when false digital evidence was presented, and that's... well, tomorrow, maybe you'll, you'll, you'll, you'll, you'll, you'll, you'll edit, maybe, a few leaders, maybe the presidents of opposition parties, you'll edit, and maybe you'll get people to listen tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0365par0185	I already have one.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0364par0186	So this is where you're gonna find your way, this is where you're gonna take the waterway, this is the story?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0365par0187	Mr. Erdal, there is.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0364par0188	Guys, look, you can't cheat this nation or anyone else by doing these things, playing these children's games. Well, technically, there are things that are possible, but... That's why I'm telling you that when there's a wiretap commission, we've already said it, we've done some things, but that's not where they're written. You know, if you'd written it down, I'd say you were right. You didn't write any of this.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0365par0190	In last week's law, we did what we wrote.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0364par0191	You didn't let us listen to the guys we said we should listen to. So now, Hanefi Hunter was saying some things. You set up execution tables on the man. You said to listen, you didn't listen. I personally went myself, listened to him when he told me what was going on. That man said some things you didn't agree to. He wrote in books, you didn't accept any of them. Now, in this country, if you're the judge, if you're the prosecutor, if you're the court, today the president of the TİB and the president of the BTK are taking over the same duties from you. It's none of your business, it's none of your business, you're dealing with something like this! And then you're gonna get up and you're gonna lead the perception. In the squares, the Prime Minister says: "The subject of children's pornography." Come on, it's not child pornography! You call it Deniz Baykal, you call it the senior executives of the MHP. Yeah, it's been three years, four years since you found the perpetrators, and that's how you talk!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0366par0194	Yes, we found it, the AKP councilman, İbrahim Faruk Bayındın.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0367par0195	We found it and they covered it up.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0364par0196	There's no such thing! Why are you fooling people about this? So you won't find anything. It's about child pornography, in no country, whether it's developed -- I've said it before -- or underdeveloped, such immorality is not allowed anywhere. Don't hide behind this and do corruption, bribery. It's a shame, it's a shame for these leaders, it's a shame for these people, it's a shame for these people. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0368par0199	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger. Mr. President... Here you are, Mr. Elvan. The speaker has expressed that I used false statements about my character, and I'd like to answer. Please come in from your seats. Mr. President, first of all, Mr. Aksunger - Google - has used a statement saying that there is no such ban in England, that I used such a statement, that there is no ban, but there is no such thing. I'm giving him the website, please let him have it. ▪Wikipedia. If you enter the organ chapter, you will see that 100,000 words in England are banned and cannot search in Google, 100,000 words and they are not used in the form of either defined or blocked. What kind of expression is that? The expression is only used in the form of "not found." Yes, without a court order in England, this 100,000 words and concepts are blocked and blocked by Google, but this only appears on the screen in a statement that cannot be found. Other than that, the Union of Access Providers in Britain and the Internet Observation Foundation can also create a blacklist, which can be blocked without a court order. Let me put it this way...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0369par0205	About what? Children's porn... Not just child pornography, sir, but all the arrangements we've brought in today are subject to a court order, no exceptions. The motion you've just made is to eliminate the court's decision, dear friends. On one hand, you're saying it's a court order. You're making a motion from the other side, no judgment. You're saying it's a court order. I don't know what you're talking about here. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0370par0208	Thank you, Mr. Elvan.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0371par0209	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0370par0210	Here you go, Mr. Aksinger.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0371par0211	Mr. President, may I speak? He accused me of misunderstanding and said I didn't spell it right, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0370par0212	Here you go, Mr. Aksinger, fix it.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0371par0213	Minister, now, there's a situation where you say 100,000 words, and I get them from Google, and I get them from the director of Turkey of Google. So what the websites might have written is that after the subway operation, the subway incident in England, they changed the business, and because of security, some of the things, the search for certain issues may have been banned from the court order. But 90% of that is child pornography, true, child pornography, I'll admit it. It's nothing else, it's all over the world. In addition, this ISPA you say in England is not a union founded by a force of authority, or by the government, as you normally say, but rather by a union of accessors here, not by law and establishment. You're building this by force, by law, as a power. There's no such thing there. There's only one other foundation here, he's making recommendations, he's telling the ISPA himself, look all over the place. Besides, it's got a website, so I'll give you his website. Do you know what happened on this site? And you're making a big mistake by giving this example. You know why? This site gave a prize to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. Do you know what the prize is? I'm talking about the Internet Enemy Award, the Web Enemy Award, the website, the company you're giving an example to, the Internet Enemy Award. Don't give me this place, you know, you're making a mistake about it. So go check it out.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0372par0216	But the Minister didn't know, he gave it to me without knowing. Did you give it to him on purpose? Don't let the Prime Minister hear.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0371par0217	There's a similar example of Ireland. In the Irish example, besides child pornography, the recommendation does nothing. You want to run like law enforcement. You want to bring in personnel from the MIT to create a new MIT. Whatever you say, it's not about your goodwill, it's about someone upstairs's phone. It'll run like MIT, everybody knows that.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0373par0218	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger. I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: This arrangement deepens the negativity of the anti-democratic internet law passed by parliament. Therefore, we demand and demand the removal of the relevant substance. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and submit the following amendment to the law proposal in 561 rows, in the framework of Article 17 as follows. "The first chapter of Article 8 of Article 17-5651 was changed in the following way and the following jokes were added to the article. In relation to the publications conducted in the Internet environment, which have a strong cause for suspicion of the following crimes, it can be decided that access to the child, youth and family may be prevented, in accordance with the principle of proportionality. Access to the entire web site cannot be blocked if the content in the entire website does not carry the conditions clearly. " According to this article, the judge's decision in the investigation process and the judge's decision given under Article 9th and 9/A are issued by the Supreme Court of Judges and Prosecutors in the areas of which there are more than one criminal court. (16) Under this law, access providers to block URL-based access are provided for by the establishment of and operating costs of the system to provide it from the budget of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications. The issues related to the use of the grant are determined by regulations issued by the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications. Information Technologies and Communication Institution shall determine the rules for the blocking of URL-based access system by the access providers, its establishment, its operation, and the issues related to privacy and security. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0374par0233	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0373par0234	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0375par0237	Mr. Lütfü Türkkan.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0373par0238	Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0376par0240	Mr. President, I have been promised the 17th Amendment to some Laws. I salute you all. In this article, you want to add a joke to Article 8 of Law 5651. According to Article 8, the Internet requires banning crimes committed against suicide, children's sexual abuse, drug use, supply of hazardous substances for health, obsceneness, prostitution, gambling, and Ataturk. You told the websites who committed these crimes, if there are more than one criminal court, let the courts appointed by HSYK be punished. As we look at the materials that require shutting down the site in the context of matter, it points out that the leading leader, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, is there. Velev was insulted on one site by Ataturk, and there are more than one court of justice. Then what? The HSYK, which is the Department of Justice's secretary, will step in and address a court of law. So should we say something more specific in Turkish? The HSYK is now the back yard of the Justice and Development Party. He will appoint an aide judge to a court where he will look at it, and he will say, "Take care of this crime concerning Ataturk. " What's that fellow judge gonna do? I don't think they're going to punish me, they're going to shut down a website that's being insulted by Ataturk. I wish they were, but I don't think so. But, I'm asking you to do something, look, don't, the enemy of Ataturk is so, so much. Ataturk built this country, protected it, founded the republic, led it to us. Look, you've been in power for 12 years, what you've done to this country. He created a nation from a land occupied by the enemy, this Ataturk. Perhaps Ataturk has a saying that we love most: "Happy is the Turk!" You may be deeply disturbed by that word, and therefore you may not have been able to digest Ataturk. In addition to other options in Article 8, it is a crime to lead suicide on the Internet, such sites are closed. Of course, the sites that lead to suicide should be shut down and the owners will be severely punished. But remember, the truth is that the Internet is not only leading suicide, you're directing it; people commit suicide from living problems, psychological disorders. I'll give you examples of professional groups: cops, soldiers, teachers, tradesmen, tradesmen swimming in debt, struggling with executive officers. A lawyer friend of mine just told me, he's listening to two bailiffs talk, and he says, "When I get home, do you believe it or not, my eyes get stuck in the shoebox?" There's a sense of that. Unfortunately, this tradesman, as I mentioned earlier, a significant part of the shop that closed down during your time, prefers suicide. If you don't want the suicides to increase, remove the debt from the shop. In this country, which is 7% inflation, don't make the shopkeeper pay 500 percent tax. Inside the 8th article, there is an arrangement for gambling sites. You're shutting down gambling sites. E, close... you've made the whole of Turkey a gambler. All Sports Toto, Lottery, National Lottery
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0377par0244	Horse races...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0376par0245	So you're the one who's running the gambling. You're shutting down sites because he's competing with you? That means you don't want any competition from him either. I see it as a law to end the competition of a gambling government with gambling websites. Guys, he's been gambling in your time. Notice that over the last decade, these companies have acquired about 45 billion dollars in sales from chance games. I thought gambling was illegal. With the money from that gambling, you get paid, you eat, you drink, you know.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0378par0246	So do you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0376par0247	I don't, yeah, I don't, guys.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0379par0248	Your friends do.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0376par0249	Whoever knows, I'm not buying.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0379par0250	Your friends do.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0376par0251	I'm responsible for myself, I haven't been paid yet.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0380par0252	The group is taking the Vice President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0379par0253	Your friends do.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0376par0254	They've never called gambling "Haram" (Haram) and did politics. You've always said, "The gambling is forbidden." But you've always eaten the unlawfuls. In the children's house was unlawful, and in the groom's house was unlawful. You have shared all the provisions of this nation with your children, with your followers. God will punish you, but we'll give it to you first! You've eaten all this nation's food. Look, I'm looking at the Capitol, and you're embarrassed, like a dead house, because I know it. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0381par0258	Get out of here, come on!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0382par0259	Look at you, look at you! Do you know how we took over?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0383par0260	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. He said I was a gambler, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0384par0262	Yes, I said the government is a gambler. I said the government is a gambler.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0385par0263	Mr. President, the Minister is responding to everything. This must be the new way.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0383par0264	Now, two minutes, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President, let me put it this way: your concerned friend first...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0386par0266	It's not relevant... First of all, our conversational friend... Congressman... I expected our congressman to first read Article 8 and understand what the arrangement was. The statements he used here without even knowing it, especially the Judges and Prosecutors' Supreme Council, which would be sent to a court of justice. The goal here, dear friends, is the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors... for example, there are over 20 judicial courts in Ankara. He's going to appoint two or three of them to be a residency court, or he's going to be charged with...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0387par0270	Mr. Secretary, I said that in the commission, why didn't you accept it? The Ministry of Justice or HSYK will not appoint any criminal court. The second issue, dear friends, is that all but obscene and child pornography from catalog crime is subject to a court order. If the court makes any decision regarding Ataturk (Ataturk) or gambling, then there will be a ban or a blockage.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0388par0273	I talked to him about the court's assignment. So it's very wrong to use certain statements here as if we're making an arrangement for Ataturk. Our Law 5671 already exists, and we are not making any changes here. It's exactly what the previous arrangement was. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0389par0276	Thank you, Mr. Elvan. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0390par0279	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0389par0280	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Aygündüz, Mr. Akar, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Acar, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Öz, Mr. Süçük, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Çıray, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Kulkuloğlu, Mr. Godkulu, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Ekici, Mr. Chosen, Mr. Kokturk. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 17th article is accepted. Congressmans, there is another motion for a new clause violation. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause will be discussed on the motions the commission has already attended, and there will be a number of motions laid out in this article. So I'll have the motion read and ask the commission. If the commission joins the motion with the majority of the 21 members, I will open the motion as a new clause. I'm going to dismiss the motion if the commission doesn't participate in it most of the time. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit the following clause to be added after Article 17 of the current 561 Law Proposal. Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Faruk Bal S. Nevzat Korkmaz Seyfettin Yilmaz The first, second, fourth, fifth, sixth, eighth, ninth, third and ninth jokes of Article 9 of the Law have been changed in the following way, and the third and ninth ones have been removed from effect. (1) True persons who claim that their rights are violated because of the broadcast content of the Internet environment ask that the content be removed from the air using a warning method to apply to the content provider if it fails to reach it. He may ask the magistrate to prevent access to content if the content and/or location providers do not release the contents in case the warning method is in trouble for delaying or due to demand according to these provisions of the Law. The fact that the demand for release of the content, which is a problem in its delay, has to mean that the outcome of the demand to be removed from the broadcast is too strong to make amends and that the breach cannot be prevented except that access to the content is blocked. (2) The demands of real individuals who claim that their rights are violated due to the publication content of the Internet environment are answered within 24 hours at the latest by content and/or location providers. In the meantime, unresponsive demands have been denied. (3) Due to the publication content of the Internet environment, the judge may decide that access to the content should not be removed or left unresponsive by the content and/or locator as a result of the demands of those violating the rights of the rights or the demands of this Law. As part of this clause, the judge justifys the situation in which the decision to block access to the content is delayed, that the warning method is applied and that the content remains ineffective, that the content is still available. Without warning, requests are rejected even if there is a problem with delays. The decision to block access must be made in accordance with the principle of proportionality. The decision to block access to the principle of proportionality means that there is a reasonable proportion between the potential harm and the expected benefit and return, and the decision not to be made to block access in the event of disproportionateness. The decision to block access must be made to prevent significant damage. The decision cannot be made to block access to something that may provide for one side's personal needs and harm a lot of people. (4) Judge, the decision to block access to this clause is primarily related to the publication, section, section and part of the article (URL etc.). gives content in a way that prevents access. The content on the entire website cannot be decided to block access to the entire website unless there is a clear violation of the identity rights of the interested person. Decisions on blocking access to the entire website are based in detail on the fundamentals laid out in the first and second joke provisions. Decisions to block access to the entire website that does not carry these conditions are not processed by the presidency and are contested according to the fifth joke of this clause. For the purpose of the use of the presidential rights, the presidency will report the case to the parties under the Fifth Amendment. (5) The decision of the judge to block access to this clause is sent directly to the Presidential Union. (6) The judge shall decide on the application under this clause without trial within 24 hours at the latest. Against this verdict can be contested according to the provisions of Penal Code 5271 dated 4/12/2004. Those who use the website where the measure is applied for legitimate legal purposes to block access to all decisions under this law may also object to the space provider who runs the presidential and measures website. The objection cannot be denied on grounds that the appeal period has expired due to decisions that have not been submitted or issued. (8) The decision to block access to the content sent to the access provider by the Union presidency is immediately carried out by the access provider within four hours at the latest. (9) The decision to block access to these laws and other laws applies to the basis of this article's second joke. The basis for all decisions regarding blocking access is based on the principles of the third joke. The decisions that do not include these justifications are not sent to the accessors to be implemented by the presidency, but are returned with the authority making the decision to make the justification." Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion with your absolute majority?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0391par0307	Mr. President, I'm inviting the Commissioners. Here you go. Mr. President, we can't participate because the Commission has no only majority.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0392par0310	Since the commission did not participate in the motion with a simple majority, I'm dismissing the motion. We're moving to Article 18. There are three motions on the 18th article, two of which are the same property, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the 18th article in the framework of the current law proposal 561 rows, as follows. Mustafa Kalaycı S. Nevzat Unafraid Oktay Vural Seyfettin Yilmaz Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal "The first, second, third, fourth, sixth, seventh, seventh jokes of Article 9/5651 of Law 18-5651 have been changed as follows, and their fifth and eighth jokes have been removed from effect. "One) Real people who claim that their privacy has been violated because of its publication content on the Internet may apply the measure of preventing access to content by applying the warning method to the presidency directly after they have determined that it has failed and that it has failed in its delay. (2) This request includes the exact address of the right-doing publication (URL), information to prove how the warning method is used and ineffective, and in what ways the right is violated. If this information is incomplete, the demand cannot be processed. (3) The presidency calls upon the court judge to decide whether to delay its request, whether access to the content is in accordance with the principle of proportionality, that access to the content should be blocked immediately, that there is no chance of protecting the content except that access is immediately blocked, that the warning method should be used, and that the outcome of its failure should be evaluated from its angles, and that access to the content should be blocked immediately or within 24 hours. Decisions made by the magistrate in accordance with this sentence are carried out by the President immediately or within four hours by the accessors. (4) Obstruction of access, violation of privacy, publication, section, chapter, picture, video (URL. it is applied through blocking access to content. Intervention of access to the entire website does not apply. (6) Against decisions made by the judge based on the third joke of this clause, you can appeal according to Article 5271 of the parties listed in the sixth joke of the Presidential and 9 article. The objection cannot be denied on grounds that the appeal period has expired due to decisions that have not been submitted or issued. (7) The judge's decision will automatically be nullified if the content is removed from the broadcast. " The two motions I'm going to make now are the same. I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 18 of the proposed law. We request that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu İzzet Cetin Vahab Selects Müslim Yellow Flood Kösa Kösa Kösa Kösem Kürünler of Love İlhan Demirözıs Reza Turmen Celal Dinçer The signatures of the other motion are: His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Does the commission participate in two proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0393par0345	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0392par0346	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0394par0347	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0392par0348	He's going to speak in original form. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0395par0351	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, there was a report in your two newspapers, which are the government's publications, yesterday, you know, a list of 3,000 people has been published. I was on that list, too, and you were listening from April 2011. All the best, listen up. We, of course, have an open forehead, no heads up, no theft, no corruption, no bribery.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0396par0354	Who's listening?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0395par0355	Who's listening? It's a court decision. You've made up something called the Salam Organization, I'll tell you that the Salam Organization is the main focus of this, of listening.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0396par0356	Why are you telling us?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0395par0357	Listen, let me explain, and then if you have any objections, come and say so. Dear friends, for once, that 3,000-person list is not part of the same investigation, I'll tell you that. There are a number of investigation files, for example, the current Interior Minister, Undersecretary of the Prime Minister, Undersecretary of the MIT, your other MPs' wiretaps are not relevant to this case. This is a fictitious investigation called the Salam terrorist organization, where your government is being heard by people who oppose Syrian and Middle Eastern policy. All the elements that criticise Syrian politics, including my chief, are here to listen, boast! There's another investigation into yours... about December 17th, there's other illegal wiretaps, there's other illegal wiretaps, there's an informal wiretap, and by bringing them all up on the same list, it's as if, here's the opposition, look, the parallel structure we've been feeding and raising is listening to you. You're trying to create a perception like that, not. I went yesterday and filed a complaint with the Attorney General of the Republic. If you're sincere, come on, friends, let's set up a parliamentary inquiry commission, are you sincere? You make the motion, we're in. Two, why shouldn't Bilal Erdogan listen to me if the court can make a decision and listen to me by violating my immunity as an MP, violating the Constitution, violating the Penal Code Act, violating the Turkish Penal Code? Why shouldn't an ordinary citizen who has no title but to be the Prime Minister's son rest, my friend, and why shouldn't he?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0397par0362	Okay? Do you have 30 million euros?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0395par0363	Now, while this person is resting... if his meeting with his father is true... it's very grave on behalf of my country... that I feel sorry for the situation in which the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey has fallen. If that's the case...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0398par0364	Lies, lies...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0395par0365	Listen, if it's a lie, come and explain. Let's set up an investigative commission on this. Let's set up a parliamentary investigative commission. If that's true, will you send it to the Supreme Court or raise a finger?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0399par0367	My rule, we're ready, we're in, let's go.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0395par0368	Let's set up a parliamentary investigative commission on the Prime Minister, investigate this claim, then send the Prime Minister to the Supreme Court... what shall I say now, right? If you're a public defender, then you'll raise a finger on him. He'll send honor, honor, if he's the nation's deputy, if he's real. Come on, let's set it up. Let's clean it up. You give the motion, let's go, let's go, let's go.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0400par0369	Come on, we're in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0401par0370	Can't you do something with such ridiculous allegations? It's clearly a montage.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0395par0371	Guys, look, let's find out if it's edited or not.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0401par0372	The montage is stable.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0395par0373	Let's set up the parliamentary investigation commission and investigate, bring in the motion. We'll give it to you, bring the motion. Let's check it out, buddy. Are you being sincere? You can't say "Montage." You can't pull it off, you can't pull it off. The more you say that, the more you sink. What if we take the expert witness to the thing tomorrow, it's real. What will you do if he does?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0401par0374	The courts are going to investigate this anyway.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0395par0375	So, do you promise, when this is real, will you dismiss this Prime Minister, will you send this Prime Minister to the Supreme Court?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0402par0376	If it was edited, why did they remove the prosecutor, the police, the judge?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0395par0377	Come on, promise me, promise me in public. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0403par0381	Thank you, Mr. Original. I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: This arrangement does not eliminate antidemocratic practices in the online law passed by parliament, but does not reveal a solution to the problem, even though it gives the impression that it is indirectly bringing the court into action. In practice, it does not eliminate antidemocratic regulations brought by the law. We demand and demand the removal of the substance related to these reasons. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature:
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0404par0386	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit06spe0403par0387	I'll call the number of decisions I need. ...the ones who don't agree... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0403par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of the two proposals, which envisioned the removal of Article 18 of the Law Proposal 561 from the proposal text. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. Now, I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the 18th article in the framework of the current law proposal 561 rows, as follows. The first, second, third, fourth, sixth, seventh, seventh jokes of Article 9/5651 of Law 18-5651 have been changed in the following way, and their fifth and eighth jokes have been removed from effect. "One) Real people who claim that their privacy has been violated because of its publication content on the Internet may apply the measure of preventing access to content by applying the warning method to the presidency directly after they have determined that it has failed and that it has failed in its delay. (2) This request includes the exact address of the right-doing publication (URL), information to prove how the warning method is used and ineffective, and in what ways the right is violated. If this information is incomplete, the demand cannot be processed. (3) The presidency calls upon the court judge to decide whether to delay its request, whether access to the content is in accordance with the principle of proportionality, that access to the content should be blocked immediately, that there is no chance of protecting the content except that access is immediately blocked, that the warning method should be used, and that the outcome of its failure should be evaluated from its angles, and that access to the content should be blocked immediately or within 24 hours. Decisions made by the magistrate in accordance with this sentence are carried out by the President immediately or within four hours by the accessors. (4) Obstruction of access is applied through blocking access to the content of private life, section, chapter, picture, video (URL) that violates privacy. Intervention of access to the entire website does not apply. (5) In response to decisions made by the judge based on the third joke of this clause, you can appeal according to Article 5271 of the parties listed in the sixth joke of the Presidential and 9 article. The objection cannot be denied on grounds that the appeal period has expired due to decisions that have not been submitted or issued. (6) The decision of the judge will automatically be nullified if the content is removed from the publication if the access is blocked." Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0405par0018	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0403par0019	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0406par0020	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0403par0021	Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0407par0022	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, are you going to play something when you see friends? He says, "No, I took it in my hand to look at a recipe." Of course, this Internet has been talked about, and it has been written a lot. It's obvious what we've become. We sent him half-assed, we brought him in, it's over. There's something I hang out with. Elvan was just here, and now Mr. Yilmaz, our Minister has changed. There's always technical stuff. Today, Mr. Secretary has made a statement that this recording is edited. Now, I don't understand the word "montaj" I looked at my sweat, and it says, "Separate, piece by piece, recording, or combining images into the work or putting the pieces together." I mean, it's a fake record, and there's nothing on the audio recordings. Yeah, and don't you have to process it to make sure it's edited? I don't know, if there's something in our National Defense Department, the Joint Chiefs of Staff...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0408par0026	If there's nothing, and something's coming out, it's a montage, simple as that. We'll have a technical review.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0407par0027	No, they're not saying it's a fake, they're not saying it's a fabrication. The montage means the combination of certain parts. Other things have been put into it. I'm trying to pick him up, so it doesn't look like there's anything completely rejected. Second: Again, I listened to interesting things in Mr. Prime Minister's speech today, and he said, "My brother -- I don't know if we've checked yesterday -- I don't know if we've looked at the time now -- they've listened to the cryptophones in TÜBITAK. Now, I've heard the content of the news, Mr. Prime Minister, but I've read it again, and I've looked at TÜBITAK's statements. Oh, there's already been a crypto-MILCEP-K1 telephone created for ministers to speak among themselves and state officials. Now, 90 percent of today's talk was about what this audio recording was. Now, then, I don't know if I understand, Mr. Secretary is also responsible for national security, and because he's responsible for national defense, one of the key areas of Krypton is the military. So, now, these wiretaps are cryptophones from TUBITAK? I don't understand him, and I want to know about him.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0409par0029	The Prime Minister said they listened to our crypto phones.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0407par0030	Because he says, "Did they even listen to our crypto phone?"
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0409par0031	That's exactly what he says.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0407par0032	And then there's the minister. He says he's going to do an operation. A few days ago, the vice president had made a statement on TÜBİTAK (TÜBİTAK) in the place where he had prepared the expert on this bug, there was no such demand from us. Well, does the president's request go away? Whoever's doing the report is going to get that request. I didn't understand that either. I mean, are they all really related? What's the deal with cryptophones, are they bugged, or is there a parallel structure in TÜBITAK, as the Prime Minister calls it, that they're going to clean it? Really, I'm a little confused by these concepts because they're overlap. How about a sound montage? I mean, we know the video montage, there's editing in the photo, or here's the assembly industry that we import from the outside...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0409par0033	Yeah, yeah. They've combined three speeches!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0407par0034	...we're combining the pieces, but now if it's a piece of assembly, the assembly doesn't quite cover it. If Mr. Prime Minister meant that these wiretaps are fake, these audio recordings are fake, someone faked them. If he says that, then the montage term doesn't seem to cover it. Mr. Secretary -- I'm sorry, Mr. Minister -- but Mr. Elvan technically answers every question and looks at it from the google, so it occurred to me to ask him the questions I've been asked here, and it's also hidden when he has the right to answer again. I mean, it's really confusing, we need to talk about getting out of the confusion. If these records are false, if they're a separate issue, if they're not legal, or if some of them are true, I think it's a separate matter for him to get out of the confusion of the concept, and to get the truth out of the matter, I think these issues need to be cleared up. The Internet issue, then, comes as a law of reaction, since it's all come out after all this. In this, of course, we find these corrections important, but there's a lot of stuff left behind. Our motions have not been accepted, as they have just passed. Again, tomorrow, he says, "I hope you don't have to correct these corrections."
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0410par0039	Thank you, Mr. Günal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 18th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 19th article: T. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 19 of the proposed law. At the end of the article, we would like to change the expression to "aligned." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Rahmi Çelebi Süleyman Çelebi of Love Vahaap Picks Ali Sarıbaş Süleyman Çelebi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and request that the statement of law under the framework of Article 19 of 561 be changed in the form of,9,189. Mustafa Kalaycı Lütfi Türkkan Adnan Şişek Güçük Faruk Bal Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the removal of Article 19 of the current 561 Order Numbered Law Proposal. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Does the commission agree with my latest motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0411par0064	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0410par0065	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0412par0066	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0410par0067	I'm reading the reason: With this clause for the village rangers, it is clear that the village rangers are being asked to continue. Since the execution, he must immediately remove the practice of rangers, who have been involved in crimes such as dozens of unsolved and judicial executions and have become a threat to the villages. We demand and demand the removal of the substance related to these reasons. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that law proposal 561 be changed in the form of.9.189 (9.189) in the box of Article 19 of the proposed law. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0413par0076	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0410par0077	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0414par0078	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0410par0079	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0415par0081	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made in Article 19 of the Law Proposal 561, which is in session. I salute you all. The 19th article provides arrangements for village rangers who have been serving for ten to fifteen years and who are not 55 years old. We find it positive and we support it. Now, dear MPs, we've just heard a speech talking about democracy, freedom while watching the Minister on behalf of the government. So he expressed the laws they brought as a series of studies that expand freedoms in the nature of democracy. I wish it were what they say, but unfortunately, we're dealing with substances that limit democracy and freedom, we're dealing with practices, we're dealing with laws. Now, when you came to power in 2002, you embraced the European Union and its vast areas of freedom, and you went into some work, but as you took over institutions and institutions in the country, you began to avoid democracy and freedom. As long as you don't see this now, as long as you don't do the warning mechanism, what you're going through today is inevitable. Look, you've eliminated the controls, you've eliminated the control of the Court, you've eliminated the control of the Assembly, you've changed over 50-60 euros in the Public Contraction Agency, you've excluded the control mechanism, some tenders. As you went outside the control mechanism, you left yourself unquestioned. The Prime Minister, who currently rules the country, has reached a point where he will see that no other words or will exists but himself. Who's going to do the warning? Some people have to do it at work. Who's one of them? Deputies, but you've been able to avoid even doing that. And then some setbacks, some mistakes, became inevitable. I'll just give you an example, look, there are lawmakers resigning from your party, we're almost on the news -- you're going to throw the men off the plane's hatch. In Kütahya, the Prime Minister says: "These are anti-democratic, the nation has betrayed its will." So, you're very democratic when you're taking MP from CHP, but when he resigns from your party, why do you come to the point where he's going to throw the men out of the plane? I ran into a mayor at the airport the other day, and he switched from our party to AK PARTY. He's getting bored. Don't come at me. We're already embarrassed. So, why did you pass, brother? He said, "What if I had the approval of a project, and I had to pass by saying, "If you're going to go to our party, we'll do it that way?" Now, when you talk about these things, you're going to be democratic, but when it gets to another point, you're going to run away from democracy. Did this happen or not? When you take the MP from CHP, you're a Democrat, and when he moves to another party, you're calling it the coup d'état of the people's will. Look at where you're coming from today, calculate it well. Now, if you don't question yourself, if you don't criticize yourself, if you don't see the wrongs, you'll get to this point today. The point you've come to today is not a good point, so try not to see it as much as you want. Now, I'm asking you, if you love your God, there are 60, 70, 80 percent lawmakers who are not involved in theft, corruption, and there are MPs who don't approve. Don't you ever think about stealing this nation's property? Is this public property being vandalized? If our ministers, our Prime Minister, are they involved in the ban? lf you've been infected, why are you defending someone else's prohibition? Why don't you question that? Or why don't you feel the need to question him? Now, all of a sudden, bam, bam, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, But question him, and you'll see. A period that has not been seen as a state in the history of the world, since the world was founded, has not occurred in a thousand years when the state has been robbed by the hand of the government and by the government.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0416par0088	There were Marcos, the Marcoses, remember? He collects shoes, they collect boxes.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0415par0089	Stop the corruption of the century, the corruption of the century! There hasn't been a robbery like this in a thousand years, over 2,000 years. Aren't you going to question this robbery? Aren't you going to question this ban? Isn't that a sin? It's a shame, isn't it? If there's an infraction, why would you be part of it? Why don't you take it off? We all get paid. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Isn't it our right to ask if someone's been wrongfully eating people's nickels? Do we get paid to sit here?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0417par0093	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 19 of the proposed law. At the end of the article, we would like to change the expression to "aligned." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0418par0100	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0417par0101	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0419par0102	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0417par0103	Mr. Çelebi, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0420par0105	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all again. Actually, we're not talking about technicalities on this stand, if you'll be careful. Because we can't talk about legal, legal ground. And what we're talking about doesn't really mean anything because it's not the law that's done in practice, it's the practice. Because despite many legal regulations so far, practices outside of those legal regulations have been under way for a long time. In this sense, we see the law in this sense, that justice does not work and that the law does not. Dear friends, from last night, those who went out to the street today, those who went out in front of ODTÜ in Ankara today, those who went down to the squares in İzmir, those who went down to the squares today in Kadıköy, those who went down to the squares in Eskişehir, Antalya, they don't believe what the Prime Minister said at today's group meeting, they don't believe what he said in the street. You have to convince them. They're, as you describe, the product of a parallel structure, not people, as I know very clearly, they're not the product of a structure as you say.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0421par0108	They're all Travelers, Travelers.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0420par0109	So, what are they? The true Democrats of this country...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0421par0110	Traveler, Traveler.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0420par0111	...home fans, socialists, leftists -- of course -- the real producers of this country, the workers, see what's wrong with them, and they say, "We don't believe in this process." Now, the police are calling in the ODTÜ, saying that in his announcement, the police say that you are all detected by cameras. Do not put your future in danger. These young people, despite their precious friends, the baton, do not resist to persecute themselves, despite the gas bomb, despite the pressure water, they are fighting to make sure that their future does not go into darkness. This struggle is being fought in the fields because of anxiety for their future, and they continue to fight for it. So, now, every time you come in here, you're talking about the box account; here, let's settle up in the chest.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0422par0113	We'll settle up.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0420par0114	Our concern is not in the chest, but in one thing...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0423par0115	Where?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0420par0116	That's what I'm saying, I'll explain it. We're not worried about the crate.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0423par0117	Why do you hear it?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0420par0118	Don't turn off the power, don't steal the votes. We're not afraid of any trunks, I assure you, we're not afraid, we're not afraid. Look, don't steal votes, don't turn off the electricity. After that, we'll really settle up with you on March 30th in the trunk. I believe that with my heart.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0424par0119	What is the sin of the thief in prison?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0420par0120	Besides, dear friends, you've got a trunk, you've got a trunk, you've got a trunk, you've got a trunk, you've got a trunk.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0425par0121	Don't they have polls?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0420par0122	Now, my dear friends, the fezleke of 32 people has come to this House. Why can't we talk here? Why do those five ministers always get delayed? Do we always talk about them in the trunk?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0426par0123	The prosecutor will arrange it, prosecutor.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0420par0124	They're all going to be auctioned off to the chest? Those responsible, the wrong-doers in this country, will not answer in front of this House, but where will they pay for it?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0427par0125	Do thieves in the country think I'm innocent? They say I'm guilty. They go to court. For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0420par0126	Where will we be able to ask for this account? I mean, if he's not gonna be here, where are we gonna be, guys?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0428par0127	It's in the trunk.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0420par0128	Our President-General, the heads of other political parties, all of the MPs, are being lectured on, but five ministers are not coming here, it's not reflected here, we're not talking here. Well, we're talking about other claims... we're thinking about doing parliamentary research, you're saying no. Well, let's talk about the other mistakes, no. You're too busy covering something up. It's time to be transparent in this country and it's over. I invite everyone to be transparent, to be honest, and to expose all these injustices. I wish you'd vote like this. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0429par0131	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 19 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... Article 19 is accepted. There are three proposals of the same nature above the Article 20, which I will study and process together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 20 of the current 561 Numbered Law Proposal be removed from the proposal text. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 20 of the current law proposal. We request that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu İzzet Cetin Vahab Selects Flood Köse Mehmet Ali Sesam Müslim Sarı Ilhan Demirözüs Celal Dinçer Rahmi Love Style Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 20 be removed from the bidding text of the current law proposal 561 rows. Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı Seyfettin Yılmaz Erkan Akçay Faruk Bal Lütfu Türkkan Does the commission agree with these three proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0430par0158	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0429par0159	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0431par0160	We disagree. With this clause, a panel of Geothermal Resources No. 5686 is created by the "Jeothermal Council" and is added to the first chapter of Article 3 of Natural Mineral Waters Law. An arrangement has been envisioned to prevent public benefit debates in underground waters, which emerged during the airport work. In such cases as airports, highways, bridges, and public investments, the council envisions reports of environmental impact assessments (CED) and a structure for which civil society will decide for the benefit of the public, no need for the opinions of professional rooms. It is clear that the entire Council of Ministers, which is made up of executive personnel, will not be possible for the administration to analyse environmental impacts and to care for the public interest of the work that is being committed and taking action. Therefore, this clause must be removed from the proposal.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0429par0164	Now, the motion for the nationalist movement party...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0432par0165	Read the reason.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0429par0166	I'm reading the reason: It is unclear how the council will operate within what procedures, with what scientific-tech data it will decide, with what public benefit it will determine. It is considered to be the cause of nature's destruction, so it is expected that such a committee should be able to identify the procedures and the basics of work and the participation of civil society organisations and universities in the public interest. Mr. Irony, here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0433par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 20 of Law Proposal 561. I salute you all with respect and love. You add a bell to the first joke of Geothermal Resources 3/6/2007 and Natural Mineral Waters Law 5686, and you form a board in the Ministry of Development. Dear friends, I'm a retired friend of yours from the county's private administration. I know his work on geothermals is very close. I would like to say that if you give this commission this task, it would be very difficult for this board to use it for other purposes, and that the public benefit decision would be given only by a three-person board. It's a wrong decision. We demand that this matter be removed in accordance with our motion. I'd like to move from here to say that we've been talking about 22 articles in this bag of laws in the last week, and then we're talking about 53 plus 1, and then we're talking about 22 terms like today. Dear friends, in this bag of laws, we've never seen anything about one agricultural, farmers. In fact, even though we participated in talks in the Budget Plan during the talks of this 22-point bag law, and there were two very valuable Bursa Congressmans in the Budget Plan, I would like to point out that there has been no transactions regarding the farmers' problems, the irrigation union in Bursa Karacabey. If you say, "What was this?," dear friends, all over Turkey, but in Karacabey, Sultaniye, Akhisar, Ortasaribey, Haztay, Beylik, Ovaesemen, there are 2,600 files in our 10 villages. 2,600 files only because they're producing. It's an act for our friends because he owes money to the irrigation troops. We have friends on the inside, we have friends who operate the tractor, but let's see, despite this 2,600 case, they wanted us to use only water for production... their interest to be erased and done with it, but unfortunately, our friends in the Budget Plan didn't consider it, but I say in your presence: Karacabey, Mustafakemalpaşa, I'd like to tell you in your presence that I'm going to complain about these people in Karacabey, Mustafakemalpaşa, especially, and that I'm not going to have these issues. Again, again, we have another matter, my friends. We have Inegöl district. Fevziye, Çağlıca, Doğanyürür, Paşaören, Süle, Hasanpaşa, Öllarlar, Elmçajır, Ortaköy, Turgutalp, Akbıyik, Karagölet, Lütfiye, Hoşiyeköy, our fellow farmers are in a lot of trouble. In 2006, they took a loan from the bank, from the People's Bank, from the Agriculture Bank, but the farmers couldn't pay for it because of their difficult situation. They've got a big problem with that. His land in the village is gone, his house is gone; he lives in the village, and he says: "There is no place left for me to go to the grave. But they still say that despite their payment, there is no distance from their debt. We have thousands of friends, but the number of friends who can meet us is one finger. Why? They're afraid, too. Please, I think we should all resolve this with the help of our friends in the Plan Budget Commission before we leave these matters to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. I wish you all a good evening with respect and love. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0434par0181	Thank you, Mr. Irony. I submit to your votes these three motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Again, there are three motions on the 21st article. I'll read it and process it together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the removal of Article 21 of the current 561 Orders of the Law Proposal. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani The signatures of other proposals are: Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Sedef Küç İlhan Demiröze Sakine Öz Faruk Bal Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı Seyfettin Yılmaz Erkan Akçay Adnan Şik Ugly Lütfu Türkkan Does the commission agree with these three proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0435par0201	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0434par0202	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0436par0203	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0434par0204	Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0437par0206	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. As with the arrangements that have been made over the past few days, this proposal includes how to meet the expectations of society, how to solve the problems of employees, farmers and industries, how to cover irregularities and corruption, how to get rid of control and justice, and how to still destroy public lands and forests, despite all the improvements, and how to provide opportunities for secondary contractors. With this proposal, a committee is formed with an addition to the Geothermal Resources and Natural Mineral Water Law. The Council is expected to form a minimum of 3 people, including the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources and other concerned ministers. It makes sense that there is no minister on this board who is responsible for the protection of underwater waters from the water management. According to this substance, the decision on geothermal resource and natural mineral water search and business activities will be made regarding state and municipal roads, highways, airports, dams, energy plants, mines, oil, natural gas companies, waterworks, and natural mineral water search and business activities and investments if the operation is not done. It is unclear with what methods the council will work, what the process of study and decision is, what scientific, technical data it will decide. Most importantly, how will this board decide which investment in public interest will be the priority? It is clear that the decisions made by the ministers would be political. Why was a public decision-making arrangement rushed into this bag without public debate? What projects are being done or done about this arrangement? This proposal is designed to overcome a decision on the third airport project to stop the judiciary from ruling and to eliminate natural resources that may arise in activities planned to be carried out under some projects. This item, which is specific and subject to an address, must be removed from the proposal. Dear lawmakers, the most important difference that separates the democratic regime from other forms of governance is the clear, transparent, transparent relationship network that is desired to create this system with its pure, moral, honest, and virtuous policy. Democratic governments must be virtuous governments where there are no secret relationships, no dark accounts, no subterfuge relationships, no favours, no back-up, no back-up, no back-to-back-to-back-to-backings. In all areas today, bribery and corruption have begun to be perceived as a natural flow to see and meet different derivatives of moral corruption. In fact, it's the most dangerous. When it comes to corruption, I understand: Does the government's vault be robbed or not? According to this description, if it's not stolen from the state vault, it's not corruption. So it's not like giving contractors tenders, taking commissions out of contracts, looting public lands, turning corners, changing the status of the sites, hitting businessmen, leading some of these so-called charities to foundations, setting up pools for a media group, collecting millions of dollars, taking bribes from a businessman who's internally involved, getting paid by a plane, taking a 700,000-dollar gift watch, Mr. Prime Minister's not considered corruption, according to the so-called charities. Yeah, there's nothing going in or out of the government's vault. It's not hard to understand what more is to be faced in our country, which is governed by such understanding, and what extent corruption has reached. It is clear that these acts are both illegal and illegal, both legally and according to our beliefs. The most common use of corruption by the World Bank is the abuse of public power for private interests. We face a government in our country that considers it a right and a privilege to use public power for its special interests and exhibits all examples of corruption. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0438par0213	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. The board, formed with this arrangement, aims to maintain the opinion of relevant civil society institutions and scientists, without need, of construction sites that are being built, while harming the environment, as an excuse for public benefit. Therefore, it is clear that this Council of Ministers, which is a member of the executive body, will not be able to analyse environmental impacts and care for public interest in the jobs in which the administration is committed and is in the field of action. Therefore, this clause must be removed from the proposal. Who will speak from the Republican People's Party Group?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0439par0218	Mr. Haydar Akar.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0438par0219	Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0440par0221	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted to the 21st amendment of the law proposal, whose number is 561. Now, when we look at this material, we form a board. This is a board of three members of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. What is the purpose of this board? This board will decide on the public's behalf whether the geothermal resources of public benefit are available or not. Now, here's the strange thing: where did it come from, with all these minerals, that it's just a board for geothermal water and that it's going to make a decision in the interest of the public, so if there's a train line going through there, if there's a port, if there's a different property of that land, it's going to go to this board, and this board is going to make that decision. Now, where did this come from? That, my friend, is December 17th, December 25th, February 24th yesterday. You bring in such special laws, and after special laws, there's theft, there's corruption, and here, when we accuse you, you bring up the apocalypse. Ah, a special law for you. Now, where did that come from? In this Aligaka, the MTA drills in 2007 and finds geothermal water at 700 meters. He's making a very high-quality water and a tender, according to the Public Contraction Act 4734, and a company is winning this tender. But the same Department of Energy allows another company to build a refinery on the same land there. It's a pretty serious investment. But these two companies are falling into one another because a company trying to get 25 megawatts of energy from geothermal heat on the same land is trying to build another refinery right next to PETKIM. The court can't solve this case, it'll be solved, but it'll have to wait. But in the meantime, we're building an address-based law, and we're building a board here, and it's like it's done in TTK, it's like it's done in Stone Coal, or it's done in the regular Coal Company, and it's brought in something that's not like it's done in our mines, and they say, "Well, let's do this law and give it to a company based on an address. Now I know which company this company will give its names, and I don't want to say it's actually a serious investment there. I know which company to give it to, so we say don't do it. Why do we say, "Don't do it, guys"? Because public interest doesn't come with three-man boards, it doesn't work for a company. I'm not upset, I've looked into it. I wonder if such an incident exists elsewhere in Turkey. There's no such thing anywhere. Here, when you do things like this, these people come and accuse you of corruption from these platforms. Is it just happening here again? You've changed the Public Contracts Act over and over again, and the bag we met last week was only 15 articles of the Public Contract Act. Do you remember what it was? Again, a friend of ours here offered us a law so that the contractors who were banned could withdraw their remaining guarantees, so that they could get them. You always do an address-based job, and when you look at the addresses of your work, you see the pool, the companies in the $630 million pool, you see those companies. Where do you see it? You see it in TCDD. So go, look at the speed train tenders -- we looked at it last week as the CSI Commission -- go look there, you'll see the same companies. Look at the highway contracts, and you'll see the same companies, do you notice any of them when you're going to the cities of Anatolia? We've built a double road. You say, have you ever looked at what companies make double roads? Or did you check which companies bought the power distribution companies? Or did you look at the companies that bought the high-speed train contracts on the Highways, TCDD? And the company that didn't cross six or seven, also says that when you look at which companies bought our mines in redevans, the company that didn't go past six or seven, the company that transferred money to your pool, of course, we don't know exactly how much is in the Prime Minister's pool, and we couldn't do the math because Bilal says the last money left is 30 million euros. When we went back from there, when we looked at the share given to uncle, we didn't know how much money to put in the house, so we didn't get the full account. That's a tough problem with the pool problem. That's what I'm saying, if you don't want to face them, don't make special laws like that. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0441par0229	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I submit to your votes these three motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four motions on Article 22: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We request and demand that the declaration of 'inscribed' in Article 22 of the current 561 Order Numbered Law Proposal be replaced with 'indicted'. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the terms "one year" of law proposal 561 in the framework of Article 22 of the proposed law. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Erkan Akçay Adnan Şik Ugly Lütfu Türkkan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the framework of Article 22 of the Law Proposal on Changes in Some Numbered Laws, 561, we propose and propose that the following jokes be added to the end of the temporary second clause, which is envisioned for the sale of Treasured Agriculture Lands, as well as the Support of the Development of Forest Villagers No. 6292, and the Evaluation of Places Out of Forest Borders in the Treasure Name of Treasure. Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mustafa Atash Recep Special Fatih Şahin In accordance with Article 8 of the Law, those who are sold by the Administration are transferred to the project's administration to be evaluated as part of the project. Any information and documents, including the price paid by the owners of the rights holders who bought the property before the end of the period, are handed over to the project owner for the purpose of establishing a transaction under Article 8 of the Law. (7) According to Article 8 of the Law, the cost of the projects in the area of the project and the costs of moving to the government, which is owned by the Finance Ministry, will be collected through the year's tax value of property, which is appropriated for the ministry's transfer," he told SETimes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following jokes to the Interim Article 22 of the current Law Proposal 561. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Veli Ağbaba Mahmut Tanal Haydar Akar Haluk Eyidoğan "For the past year, satellite photos of this area have been sent by the governors, through the administrations, and through the administrations, which have sought to establish a project area in areas to be registered in the area of update lists, including the areas where the cadastro logs have been confirmed before the Law 2/B came into effect, if there is any plan on any scale, the planning, the property information, the kadastral sheets, and the current maps. These areas are approved or rejected within six months of the arrival date of the request by the current Ministry, and the bidder is notified by the administration. In accordance with the approved plans, the estates of the subsidiaries which have been transferred to the municipalities are transferred to their rightful owners over the price set out, as well as the financial power taken into account. (7) As of the date this clause entered into effect, the property will be transferred to municipalities where municipalities have taken over from the Treasury to implement special project spaces; if the rights owners have already taken over from the Treasury, these parcels will be returned to the Treasury at the request of the rightful owners, as well as to include the implementation of special projects in the same way. In this case, payment to the Treasury before is returned to the rightful owners. (8) Although the municipality and the mujavir lost its forest quality before 31/12/1981 in science and science, under Law No. 6831 in accordance with Article 3302 in Article 2 (B) in the name of the Treasury, the removal of the forest body of areas which have not yet been carried out in the name of the Treasury has been completed at the end of the year, with the application of Article 2 (B) of Law No. 3402 in accordance with Article 3402 in accordance with Article 3402 in terms of science and science and science. These places will be sold to the rightful owners under the principles laid out in Law 6292." Does the Commission agree with this latest motion I've submitted?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0442par0267	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0441par0268	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0443par0269	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0441par0270	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0444par0272	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have failed, failed, failed, failed, failed. On April 19, 2012, the Law 2/B was adopted by Parliament. In my last speech on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of that day, I said, "This law has not solved, you will come here once again for the solution." I said. Unfortunately, I wasn't wrong, I wanted to be wrong, I wasn't wrong, you came here on January 30, 2013, you changed Law 6412 to Law 2/B. Again, I went out of my way, and again I said, "This law has not happened, and you will come here again." Unfortunately, I was not wrong again, I wished to be wrong. On March 8, 2013, Law 6444 was adopted in Parliament. I took this stand again. It didn't happen again. You'll come again." I said. I'm afraid I wasn't wrong. Now you're changing the 2/B law. I say again: This is not a cure for trouble, you will come here once again because you don't know 2/B, you don't know what's wrong with the citizens, you have forgotten to walk among the citizens of Beykoz, you have forgotten to walk among the citizens of Sultanbeyli, you have forgotten to walk among the citizens of Umraniye. Today we have a petition of 2,500 signatures from Umraniye. We can't announce our problems in the government." But you don't care. Dear lawmakers, as Republican People's Party, we have proposed countless laws. Our latest offer was combined with the ruling party's proposal, and we said: let's give six months more to citizens who can't apply for 2/B in time, and give six more months to those who haven't paid the down payment on time. You said three months, thankfully you accepted our six-month proposal. I said one more thing, there's a special project area application in law 2/B. Some municipalities are trying to solve the problem of the citizen's price by going to a special project site. It's in Beskoz, but we have citizens in private project spaces who are borrowing their property from national real estate, thinking about what's going to happen before. He's got the deed, he's got the sherrah on him, but on the other hand, he's transferred the land to the city. Now, the city says to the citizen who received the deed: you applied for national property, you got it. If you hadn't, brother. There was a clause in my proposal for him as the Republican People's Party Group to solve his problem again. You didn't take it on the commission, which, fortunately, you came to your senses until you got here from the commission, and you agreed to it. I'm glad, I'm glad. I'm struggling to solve the problem of the village of Yolale, but unfortunately, there's no way to tell you that. I'm saying one more thing: let's not just solve the problem of the village of Gölale, let's solve the village of Uzraniye, let's solve the village of Elmlukent, let's solve Ihmurkuyu, let's solve the chief of the physician, let's solve the village of the Inkip, let's solve the problem of Kazim Karabekir; let's solve the conflict of Cemil Meric neighborhood. Let's increase the 30-day and three-month application period in special project space application to a year from the date of release of this clause, and I'll apply for a special project by the municipality of Umraniye. Let the national estate take the deed from the property and pass it to the citizens at the cost of the citizen's budget. Let's solve the problem of the Sultanbeyli district of Hasanpaşa. One side of the street is 2B, one side is the forest. One side gets the deed, and if he can get it, he can't get it, the prices are high. At least, by law, let's put them in equal position, open a way to give them a deed. That's what our motion covers. You're not going to accept this. Maybe you'll agree, I don't know, I'm telling you again, but I don't want it to be like this, it's always been like this: my son reads the building, turns around, reads it again. Look, you've been coming here a long time. Come on, let's take a break, take a look at this motion of ours, let's face it, the mind's the way. I knew you wouldn't agree, so we agreed to the other motion. The other motion to solve the problem of the village of Yolale of Beykoz is our signature as Republican People's Party. Dear lawmakers, problem 2/B has not been resolved. These are partial problems in Umraniye, Sultanbeyli... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're trying to figure it out in Beskoz, but with 545 thousand citizens in Turkey in a position to get the deed, I'm going to give them a number -- and only 408,000 of them are in the process of being given the deed.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0445par0280	▪ It's just a little too much.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0444par0281	The others can't afford a deed. The number of buyers is 634,000. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0446par0284	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the framework of Article 22 of the Law Proposal on Changes in Some Numbered Laws, 561, we propose and propose that the following jokes be added to the end of the temporary second clause, which is envisioned for the sale of Treasured Agriculture Lands, as well as the Support of the Development of Forest Villagers No. 6292, and the Evaluation of Places Out of Forest Borders in the Treasure Name of Treasure. Ahmet Aydın (Adıyaman) and his friends In accordance with Article 8 of the Law, those who are sold by the Administration are transferred to the project's administration to be evaluated as part of the project. Any information and documents, including the price paid by the owners of the rights holders who bought the property before the end of the period, are handed over to the project owner for the purpose of establishing a transaction under Article 8 of the Law. (7) According to Article 8 of the Law, the cost of the projects in the area of the project and the costs of moving to the government, which is owned by the Finance Ministry, will be collected through the year's tax value of property, which is appropriated for the ministry's transfer," he told SETimes. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0447par0293	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0446par0294	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0448par0295	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0446par0296	Yeah, who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0449par0297	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0446par0298	I'm reading the reason: By default, the 6th amendment shall be adopted in accordance with Article 22 of the Law Proposition 6292, the Support of the Developments of Forest Villagers No. 6292, and the Evaluation of Places Out of Forest Borders in the Treasure's Name, and the implementation of all moving into the Treasury's Agricultural Lands shall be added to the Law on the 2nd Amendment, as well as the implementation of the project under which the Article 8th Amendment of Law 6292 shall be revised in the areas of the project, as well as in order to ensure the implementation of all non-responsorshipmentals for the project, and the rights for the implementation of the implementation of the transactions under the project, as well as in accordance with the provision of the provision. On the other hand, Article 8 of Law 6292's second statement, "The project area, approved by the manager's administration in 30 days from the date of approval, is transferred to the Finance Ministry, which is favourable by the Ministry of Finance on the demand for the transfer of the move in areas 2/B which remain within the project area, as well as the property owners and the current rights. The amount of time can be paid in installments in advance or in installments specified in this Law. " The sentence is in place. According to this ruling, the project is being investigated by the Finance Ministry for its rights by the commissions created by relevant bookkeepings or managers, which are considered appropriate for the transfer of project owner to administration. As a result of the examination, the move-ins, which have been placed directly on sale by the Finance Ministry, are transferred to the project owner's administration via the property tax value, which needs to be returned, and without charges and other rights to the owners, as well as other rights to the project. Again, with the proposed reasons, again, the seventh joke envisioned to add the Law Proposal to the interim Article 8 to Article 6292, under which the framework shall be added to Article 6292; the prevention of the situation against the project owner's administration due to the length of the removal of the rights and the fact that the current rights of its current rights in the project have been extended, and that the ministry of Finance is aware of the date of its transfer in favour of its administration, and the year between the date of the transfer and the year of the transfer of the awareness of the property tax values of the awareness between the year and the year, due to the transfer of the current tax values, due to the fact that it may be blocked against the status of the project's bookkeeping or property management, due to the end of its assets.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0450par0304	Mr. President, sir, Mr. Akif has just stated that he has a very partial solution to this motion, only in Beykoz.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0451par0305	Yes, the village of Yolale in Beykoz.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0450par0306	The relative village is a very partial solution. So, if there really is something about this, I would like to say that we are prepared to sign along with another motion as a group to create a more comprehensive solution to 2/B. I mean, there's a very serious problem, it's only partially solved. While they're being resolved, we call on the Justice and Development Party as a group, and we're ready for them. If there's any will to solve a problem with the B/B people, I'd like to say that we're ready for it, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0452par0307	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0451par0308	No misunderstandings. As the Republican People's Party, our motion includes an arrangement to solve the problem in both the village of Beykoz Yolale and Sultanbeyli and Umraniye, which is very common in Turkey. Our proposal for extension of the application period in special projects is a proposal covering the entire Turkish community.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0450par0309	I mean, let's look wider.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0453par0310	Well, then, members of the group, if you're going to negotiate...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0454par0311	Sir, let's vote. Let's continue the procedure.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0450par0312	Why? Let's encourage everyone. Good luck.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0454par0313	1.530 right-owners are taking advantage of it. Don't think of it as a village, the owner of 1.530 is taking advantage of it.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0450par0314	Fine, fine, make it 2.530.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0455par0315	Now, let's vote on that, but if you're gonna do something different, if you think it's okay with him, we'll take a break. Let's vote on it.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0456par0316	Mr. President, sir, let me give you a heads-up again. Now, considering the possibility that our motion, which I have just announced on the stand, may not be accepted, I'd like to propose that we resolve the problem in the village of Beykoz Yola...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0457par0318	We signed a partnership.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0456par0319	...with the Justice and Development Party. As the Republican People's Party Group, we also support the motion there, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0458par0320	Okay. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the terms "one year" of law proposal 561 in the framework of Article 22 of the proposed law. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We disagree. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0459par0329	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0458par0330	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0460par0332	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the 22nd amendment of Law Proposal 561; I salute you all. Of course, Mr. Mahir, that's not enough, but we're always shooting from the yes. So 2/B is not going to solve the citizen's problem again.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0461par0334	I mean, we talked about this, if you remember.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0460par0335	Yeah, we talked about it, and I'm telling you this, but it's not enough, it's not enough. Now, no matter what we say about this 2/B hour, when the 2/B Act arrived on April 19, 2012, I gave maybe a dozen speeches from this podium, and then you came back three months later -- no matter what we said -- no matter what the ceremony says, with a sense of reading what the imam knows -- we know the truth; what we do is right. We said, "You're doing it wrong again." We said, "No, we're doing it right. This is the last month of February of 2013." He said, "The Minister of Finance came again, not four months later, he came again, and now he has come again." I mean, I don't want to say that we're right here or anything, but you've only looked at this as money. So the Minister of Finance... Now, that doesn't solve the problem of any of the Toros' peasants. The Minister of Finance looked at the money coming from there, how many billion dollars comes from there, what do I do with it, what do I do with it, what do I do with it, what do I do with it, what do I do with the budget deficit, what do I do with it, he looked at it, he doesn't understand the village in the Toros. Thanks to our Minister of the Forest, he said, "Let's get the job off me." He handed it over to the Ministry of Finance, and it was left over to the Minister of Finance. So, have you solved the problem now? You didn't figure it out. If this money goes to the right place, we'll call it amenna. But it turns out that the money that was taken is in the lockers of the children of the ministers, of those poor peasants, of those poor peasants, of those poor peasants, of those poor peasants, and on the other side, there's billions of dollars, and on the other side, there's a billion dollars in whose house, I don't know whose. Now, isn't that a shame, isn't it? Thousands... look, there's been a sale of 817,000 owners to 408,000 people, almost two years past. What's wrong with this place? It was said here that February 2013 was the last date. The poor man... there were two poor people here. One of them, for a hundred and fifty years, had been fatherly, he had a forest villager, he had no chance of taking one; and there were those who had emigrated to Istanbul -- as Mr. Hamzacebi had just said, there was gold in Umraniye, Beykoz. There was a rapid population growth in Chile. He said, "The mountain stone of Istanbul is gold." Anyway, he bought these places from a squatter's land mafia. I mean, he didn't just show up and open up his forest or anything, so he got it from the squatter mafia. And then he'll take them back as government. You brought the last one in February. You said, when this poor forest peasant and the poor citizen in Istanbul couldn't get them, who stepped in this time in Istanbul? A mob came back in, the land mafia came in, and these real estate brokers came in, and said, "Look, in February, in March, history is the end, you got it, you couldn't get it, you'll have it all. We'll clean up." In the forest villages, many citizens didn't get it, and there was a collection of valuable places. What's happened is to the poor poor again, the strange guru. You know, you've done the literature of the poor poor, the strange guru, but you've always turned your back on the poor, the poor, the strange guru. You thought you could do it by paying them 100 liras, 200 liras, 300 liras, giving them a bag of coal, or giving them pasta. Their poverty continues, their poverty continues, but your followers, God willing, have taken the goods, taken away, taken away, taken millions of dollars, gone. So in a situation like this, now, what have you solved? There's nothing solved with 2/B, no money. Yeah, that's their right. You're trying to stop him from giving you what's rightfully yours. Around here, we shouted: "Let us give them to those who are included in the 31st or 32th article at 10-15 percent or free of charge. They're the ones who protect the forest, they're the ones who suffer, they're the ones who live in poverty, what happened? No, not again. On the other hand, there's the poor bastard who came from those forest villages to Istanbul and fell into the hands of the land mafia. Come on, we thought we'd take care of all this. Now, do you know who took advantage of this 2/B? These lotters, the runners, they've taken advantage of this lot, the one that shuts down the coves and turns the moy. They've taken their place, but many of the poor who deserve it haven't been solved again, and it won't be solved again. I mean, your law didn't do much good. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0462par0342	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 22 of the 561 Numbered Law Proposal, we request and demand that the declaration of the Law be changed under the terms referred to. Secrets Sakık (Muhs) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0463par0349	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0462par0350	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0464par0351	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0462par0352	I'm having him read his motive: This motion aims to make matter more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the accepted motion, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, now, there is a motion for a new interim clause violation. As you know, as a new clause in Article 91 of the Civil Charter, it is possible to discuss the motions which the commission's only majority participated in in as a temporary clause, and the number of motions specified in this article can be submitted. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the majority of the commission participates in the motion with 21 members, I will open the motion as a new interim clause. If the commission doesn't agree with the simple majority, I'll remove the motion from the process. Now, I'm going to read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following clause be added to the current Law Proposal 561 rows. Mahmoud Tanal Malik Ecder Özdemir Chooses Vahaap The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 23, 6292. "UNIFIED MADDE 3- Under this Law, they cannot be moved which cannot be sold to the rightful owners under the 12th amendment of Article 6 which can be sold directly at the price of the fourth joke of this clause, if the rights are applied to the administration within three months of the date when this clause is in effect. However, there is no building and physical intervention in the area of the status areas, contrary to the rules made by the High Council for Protection under the Law on the Protection of Culture and Natural Beings 2863, which cannot be reused or changed. Solid repairs, construction, plumbing, drilling, partially or entirely destroyed, burn, dig, or so are construction and physical interference," he said. Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0465par0368	I'd like to invite the members of the Plan and Budget Commission to the bench of the Commission, here.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0466par0369	Shall we? Are you serious?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0467par0370	We've got scholarship MPs, two friends, Budget Plan. It's about the scholarship. I've been watching them very well to see if they've joined. Yes, I will sing especially in Bursa, the subject of Bursa.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0468par0371	Yeah...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0469par0372	We can't participate because we don't have a majority.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0470par0373	He's coming. He's coming, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0471par0374	He's coming, guys. Maybe the other friend, Mr. Hussein, could come, Huseyin Şahin.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0472par0375	Yes, there's no majority of you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0473par0376	We can't participate because we don't have the majority.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0472par0377	Yes, since the Commission has failed to participate in the motion with a majority, I'm dismissing the motion. Now, we're moving on to Article 23. There are three motions on Article 23 that I'm going to read and process together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 23 of the current 561 Numbered Law Proposal be removed from the proposal text. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani The signatures of the other motion are: Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu İzzet Cetin Vahab Selects Flood Köse Mehmet Ali Sesam Müslim Sarı Ilhan Demirözüs Celal Dinçer Rahmi Love Style The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı Seyfettin Yılmaz Erkan Akçay Faruk Bal Lütfu Türkkan Does the commission agree with these three proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0474par0401	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0472par0402	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0475par0403	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0472par0404	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0476par0405	Mr. Erkan Akçay...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0472par0406	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0477par0408	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 23rd Amendment. I salute you all. Under Article 23 of this law proposal, the Minister of Health is authorized to change contracts and go to higher prices. This arrangement, dear friends, may cause corruption in the tender. For whom is this law being made? It is also a very important question to ask, and it is a very serious question. It's an arrangement that leads to corruption. I wonder how dark the eyes of power are and how reckless they are. I think by making these arrangements, the power has an understanding that it will never leave power, so you don't think you'll ever leave power? According to this Law 6428, the state will give the public land needed for the hospital project to the entrepreneur without charge. In exchange for the construction of the facilities and services received, the private entrepreneur will be paid rent at 25 to 30 years and at a very high price. Since investors for hospitals have been dependent on companies for at least twenty-five years, medical equipment alternatives will fall into the hands of the private sector from the initiativeal Ministry of Health in matters such as the choice of material. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to say that the Manisa city hospital is built with a public-special sector cooperation model, but we have to say it will. Because, in 2004, the AKP had come up with an election promise, and until 2008, no sound had been heard, and from time to time, we brought it up, and in 2009, land was earmarked by the municipality of Manisa. On December 23, 2010, seven preliminary qualifications were applied for construction of the hospital, and nine years after the foundation of the construction of the Manisa city hospital came up, four years after the land allocation, on December 1, 2013, three years after the application for preliminary competency, the foundation was finally laid, but not yet nailed down. The question is important, my dear friends, why is it that hospitals can be made much cheaper by the classic way, but are preferred to a public-private cooperation model, which is much more expensive, where my pool percentages are at stake? The Erzurum State Hospital, which has been tendered in the classical way -- 1,200 beds -- has cost $193 million, whereas according to the public-special sector co-operation report, a fixed investment cost of 123 million, the Manisa city hospital will cost $1 billion,606 million, according to current prices and preliminary feasibility figures. This is a complete robbery. According to the preliminary feasibility report, the total cost of the Manisa city hospital was $123m, while only the annual rent of the building was set at $64m. So with two years' rent, the hospital's price -- permanent investment -- will continue to be paid for the remaining 23 years. In twenty-five years, the Manisa city hospital will receive at least $1 billion,600 million in rent. If we subtract the cost of a fixed investment of 123 million liras, the extra amount of payment for the Manisa city hospital exceeds $1 billion,400 million, and besides, they're closed and shady investments. We haven't been able to answer any of the questions we've asked about this. The Ministry of Health, I insist, does not answer these questions. What's the number of feasibility, what's the price of the tender; it's unclear, we don't know these things, we're just talking about preliminary feasibility figures. With public-special cooperation, hospitals with private sector cooperation do not increase the number of beds in Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On the contrary, these tenders have been allowed as long as the current number of beds has been reduced, according to the Supreme Planning Board's decision. With these thoughts, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0478par0417	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. On the Republican People's Party's motion, Mr. Yellow. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0479par0421	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a promise regarding Article 23 of the Law Proposal 561. I salute you all. Mr. President, I'm speaking here today in a parliament where the government's legitimacy is at a standstill, and its mandate has been compromised, where legislation is directed to launder corruption and theft. This is the Parliament of a country that is not touched by corrupt ministers and their children. This Parliament is the Parliament of a political climate, where politics, power, means of government, and means of self-inflicted economics. When we listened to the recordings of the dirty relations that had been unfolded at midnight last night, we were ashamed on behalf of this country, on behalf of this House, on behalf of politics, on behalf of this poor and deprived people. Seeing the Prime Minister in such relationships would make us blush. We were disturbed to see a father put his children in such a dirty web of relationships. We've had the embarrassment of a Prime Minister's designing where he came from with his own children, where he's going to miss money at night, where he's going to miss it.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0480par0425	Oh, you really believe him?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0481par0426	Were you with him?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0479par0427	Unfortunately, under AKP power, we see our traditions, our customs, some of the values we've been taught are being taken underfoot every day.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0480par0428	Shame, shame.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0479par0429	Yesterday's dirty relationships have no value, no faith, no relationship with order.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0482par0430	It doesn't suit you, Müslim. It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0479par0431	These dirty relationships cannot dwell in any world's view of human love.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0483par0432	You've been there, haven't you?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0484par0433	What are you gonna do if this turns out to be the real thing? How dare you talk to me here?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0479par0434	Let no man make a shield of our faith, of our religion, of our nationality, of the values we believe in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0484par0435	How dare you talk to me here?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0479par0436	We have learned from what happened, not because a man was hungry, but because he was a thief, as William Somerset, the famous playwright, said.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0485par0437	These people know the thieves, they know.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0479par0438	We didn't shout for nothing when we shouted, "There's a thief in this House."
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0485par0439	Look in the mirror.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0479par0440	Yeah, there's a thief. The government no longer has any legitimacy.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0486par0441	Disrespectful.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0487par0442	He's accusing the entire Parliament, Mr. President, would you be so kind as to warn him?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0479par0443	We're in a country where those who are no longer comfortable with this theft are mutually purified. I'd like to address the AKP MPs and all our citizens in the first place.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0487par0445	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0488par0446	Please listen, calm down.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0487par0447	What should we listen to? He's insulting me, what should we listen to?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0489par0448	Listen to what?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0490par0449	Listen, listen, please. You're either gonna be in favor of stealing or you're gonna be in front of him. After recent events, you have no choice.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0491par0452	You're dreaming!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0490par0453	Mr. President, it is not acceptable for our state, our state tradition, politics and Parliament to be taken under such feet and to be invaded by those who permit it.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0492par0454	30 Martas are almost there.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0493par0455	Instigator! Instigator!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0494par0456	Look in the mirror, in the mirror!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0495par0457	The people who came to these ranks by the vote of the people...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0493par0458	You'll see, on March 30th.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0496par0459	Wait for March 30th, take your time.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0495par0460	...it's unacceptable for those people to tolerate dirty relationships based on their money. You guys, with a small amount of 30 million euros, the middle of the night of the money they couldn't fit into the houses...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0497par0461	It's all lies!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0495par0462	Were you not ashamed when you learned that when the weather went dark, the Prime Minister himself ordered it to be eliminated?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0498par0463	Aren't you ashamed!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0495par0464	You're not bothered at all?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0499par0465	And when it turns out it's a lie, it's a montage, what face are you going to talk to here?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0500par0466	Provocator, provocateur!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0501par0467	You're immoral, immoral!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0502par0468	Do you remember 17 years ago, a boy named Ali was arrested and sentenced to nine years in prison for stealing baklava and peanuts from a business in Gaziantep?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0500par0469	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0503par0470	Where is it now? There's no such thing. You're dreaming!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0504par0471	You're pathetic, poor thing!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0503par0472	They don't have that kind of punishment anymore.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0505par0473	Recently, a 15-year-old boy was taken into custody in Antalya on charges of stealing 4 bread, 650 grams of cheese and 2 packets of milk from the grocery store.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0504par0474	You don't have any arguments to argue with, poor thing.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0505par0475	The boy had no father, and his mother was cleaning stairs in the apartments. You have condemned men to hunger, poverty, and poverty. When someone stole the people's money, you condemned the people to carry their dead children on their backs in sacks.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0506par0477	It's a shame about your economics class!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0505par0478	But I say once again, the AKP reign is over.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0507par0479	Who wrote that article to you? Who wrote it to you?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0505par0480	While the beautiful children of this country were shot and killed in the middle of the street for a better future, someone wanted to drink money with their own children.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0508par0481	Look at yourself first, look at yourself!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0509par0482	Pity!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0505par0483	But the AKP's power has come to an end. The palaces, the kingdoms collapse, One day the blood will shut up, and the persecution will end... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Those who say it's all over...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0510par0488	Dream! You can't do anything with such irresponsibility, it's too irresponsible!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0505par0489	Those who eat frustration at the table of fear...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0511par0490	That's enough!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0512par0491	Enough!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0505par0492	▪ What flowers resist in the fields...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0513par0494	Congressmans, please remain calm.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0505par0495	No raging rage in the cities, They haven't said goodbye yet, It's not over. It's going on. It's going on. It's going on. Until the earth becomes the face of love.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0514par0500	Thank you, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0515par0501	Go on, get out of there! Shame on you! Shame on you! Shame, shame!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0514par0502	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0516par0503	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0517par0504	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0514par0505	Congressmans, wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0518par0506	You didn't warn me once. Shame on you, how you're running for president!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0514par0507	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0519par0509	There are thieves here. He said, "There are thieves here." He didn't separate any groups. Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0520par0510	He insulted us for five minutes. He needs to speak in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0514par0511	Congressmans, please, calm down. Here...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0521par0512	Why didn't you warn me?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0522par0513	And you're under that claim. There are thieves, he said.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0514par0514	Please, take your seat, please...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0523par0516	You were supposed to do that while the conversation was going on. This conversation is over, you're warning me.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0522par0517	He didn't break up the group here, he talked about the whole group.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0514par0518	Congressmans, you are obliged to listen to the MPs speaking on the stand. Anyone who answers will answer.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0523par0519	That kind of administration doesn't exist. He insulted me here for five minutes, now you're warning me of what, and now you're warning me of what!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0524par0520	He can't insult me!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0525par0521	He's here to apologize, he's going to apologize.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0523par0522	What are you gonna say, what are you gonna say?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0526par0523	I beg you, calm down.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0523par0524	What are you asking, what are you asking! He insulted us here for five minutes, he was rude.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0527par0525	Why didn't you warn me? Why don't you warn me?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0526par0526	Anyone who answers will answer. Listen first, then give me your answer.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0523par0527	What are you going to tell me? You were supposed to warn him here.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0526par0528	That's not the way it works, lawmakers. On the stand...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0528par0529	He had to speak clean language, clean!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0523par0530	What kind of administration is this?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0529par0531	There are thieves. He said here, you couldn't make a sound, you didn't make a sound. He told all the groups, and he told you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0523par0532	You're not ruling neutrally, you're not ruling neutrally, you're running biasedly. Does that look good on you?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit07spe0530par0533	Congressmans, we can't run the General Assembly like this, and we can't negotiate like this. I find that disrespectful. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0530par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 561. The commission and the government are in place. I'll have him read the reason for the last motion on Article 23.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0531par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0530par0006	Before you have him read, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0531par0007	In the previous session, the speaker made statements both to our group and to our Group President. That's why I want your word.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0530par0008	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0531par0010	Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, politics has only one port, which is morality. Politics has a law, dignity, honor. If you're talking about legitimacy, the legitimacy of politics is to stay on democratic, legitimate, legal ground first. And that requires a morality. If you're doing politics on a material that's made in what dark corners, which are entirely slanderous, slandering, and slandering, and building your own politics on it, first of all, there's neither dignity nor honor nor morality here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, if we're talking about legitimacy, the source of legitimacy is not on the streets. The source of legitimacy is obvious. The source of legitimacy is social sovereignty. It's what the people entrusted you with in the polls, and what you use in the legislature, by staying on the constitutional ground, by staying on the legal ground, by the legislature, by the legislature, by the legislature. You came here, you lost your legitimacy from here, you are no longer legitimate as a government. It doesn't destroy legitimacy, but it does something: it moves the street. Why do you move the street? If you're being anti-political, if you believe that you can't get results in politics, then... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you start looking for legitimacy on the street, and human history is the date of the movement on the street to evolve into the chest through democracy. Now, you're taking this and you're trying to put it back on the street. That's what's immoral. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0532par0017	Thank you, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0533par0018	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0532par0019	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0533par0020	Sir, just in the middle of a meeting before the break, the Justice and Development Party has invaded and attempted to invade the Republican People's Party Group. They've come all the way up here to our desks and attempted to attack us in a real way. I'd like to speak according to Article 69 of the Civil Code, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0532par0021	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0533par0023	Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, yes, staying on a democratic and legal basis is the most important rule of politics. Staying on democratic and legal ground doesn't mean being in that General Assembly room, it's not enough. You're trying to invade our group, depending on the majority of you, you're trying to attack our group.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0534par0024	You know there's no such thing!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0533par0025	I'm Deputy Director of the Group here, and you have friends who come up to my desk and challenge me, and they talk from the top of the screen.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0535par0026	That's not an insult stand.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0533par0027	You're not trying to stop any of this...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0536par0028	We didn't insult him.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0533par0029	...but you're afraid to go ahead of the Party for Peace and Democracy.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0537par0031	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0538par0032	There's no one, there's no one. It's empty. It's empty.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0533par0033	Yeah. For what reason? How are you going to explain this to everyone?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0539par0035	Indeed, it is you who are the Godwary.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0533par0036	Shame! There's such a thing as shame, look. Dear lawmakers, since December 17th, your government's main duty has been to cover up corruption and bribery investigations. That's what you people are for. Don't be a tool, dear friends. I'm putting the Justice and Development Party group in a separate position. It's time to say stop the corruption of your government. Say no to these laws. All of this is intended to cover up corruption.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0540par0038	Get out of here, get out of here!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0533par0039	You'll answer for it in the election, but you'll have to answer for it before the election. Those who are insecure attempt to attack the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0541par0040	Oh, come on, Mayor!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0542par0041	Don't play politics with lies and slanders.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0533par0042	It's self-esteem, it's fear, it's ineptness, it's in the sense that I'm ashamed of your leader, it's in his eyes, but it's not going to work.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0542par0043	You won't get anywhere with lies and slander.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0533par0044	I bid you good night.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0543par0046	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I'm reading the grounds for the same motion: Under this clause, Health Ministry No. 6428, which was under law on February 21, 2013, envisions changes in the Law on Building, Renewal and Service and Changes in Decisions of Some Law and Laws, and the amendments to contracts with the approval of the Minister of Health (the Minister of Health) shall be made. The amendments to this arrangement will cause a lot of problems, even though the price of the contract cannot be changed, given the fact that last year's law has caused serious speculation and brought the financial burden to the public. Because these health facilities, envisioned by public-private partnership, include impact analysis, feasibility, risk to the public, financing model; not to lawmakers, nor to lawmakers who have been presented to public opinion and have created serious concerns about this, and the possibility of changing contracts by sides will bring with it many corruption, theft, and abuse. Therefore, this arrangement must be removed from the article text. I submit the three motions of the same nature to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes. All those in favor... those who do not accept... Article 23 is accepted. There are three motions of the same nature on the 24th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 24 of the current 561 Numbered Law Proposal be removed from the proposal text. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani The signatures of the other motion are: Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu İzzet Cetin Vahab Selects Mehmet Ali Sesame Tutor Köse Rahmi Love Türeli Celal Dinçer Müslim Sarı İlhan Demiröz The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Lütfü Türkkan Adnan Şişek Ugly Erkan Akçay Does the commission agree with these three proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0544par0075	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0543par0076	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0545par0077	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0543par0078	Mr. Turkkan, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0546par0080	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm going to talk about bugs in my speech, but I'm not going to talk about bugs in the Prime Minister's office, I'm going to talk about bugs in the forest tonight. I'm going to talk to you about the 24th amendment to some laws. I see you've had another crack at this bill you've prepared. I don't know if any of you have read it, but you've made all the arrangements in your own best interest, and you've covered everything up, and the 24th article of the law proposal is one of them. See, the matter is clear, what it says: in cases brought against tenders, the requirements of decisions made by the administrative judicial authorities are fulfilled by the current tender document and by the necessary arrangements for contracts. From where did it come from, you might say, how did such a law come to be needed, all of a sudden. The reason is this: the third airport to be held in Istanbul, that's actually the reason for this law. Last year, you remember that tender. This consortium, taken by contractors who transferred money into the pool, prepared a project to raid the Albanian village forests in the northern part of Istanbul. I know Istanbul well. I know all about those Albanian village forests. You wouldn't mind looking. It's really a green wonder of nature. You'd be jealous of your eyes. But these guys are gonna build an airport here. Do you know which airport they're going to build? Third airport. They're going to build the airport that the Prime Minister once objected to when he was Mayor of the Metropolitan, where he thought it was ridiculous, that it was outdated. 700,000 trees will be cut down to build this airport, yes, 700 trees. Think of the bird's nests in those trees, squirrel's nests, it'll all go away. You know, I said bugs, and you thought of the Prime Minister's room right away. The other bugs will be destroyed. Nature will indeed be ruined.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0547par0083	Let's not build an airport. We don't want to.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0546par0084	The cementing of these forests, which meet the growing need for drinking water, will also prevent the pouring rain from getting into the soil. That's what you guys always get. There can be more decent spaces to build airports, no need for forest massacres.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0547par0085	For God's sake.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0546par0086	So that the underground waters, streams, and streams can't feed. So the public need for drinking water will be directly blocked. There's Lake Terkos west of the project area. As such, the streams that feed Lake Pakos will be in danger. The small shoot, the great hammer, and the reeds' basins will be destroyed. It's not just that. There'll be a lot of traffic when the airport enters the service. On average, 100,000 vehicles a day are mentioned. Can you imagine the pollution there, fellas? This concentration is going to turn Istanbul traffic, which is already busy, really, into an interface. With regard to the airport, the negativity that I've considered, as well, has been seen by the judge. İstanbul 4. The Supreme Court has decided to stop the execution and the construction has stopped. Construction stopped, but the Justice and Development Party didn't stop. You've put this clause in front of the court's decision to stop the execution of the law you've prepared, so you're always going to go through the law with some sort of clause. God bless you, but it's not going well, I'm looking, I see, it's not going well. I wish it would go well! The third airport project is a combination of irregularity, rant and natural slaughter. No matter how you look at this place, it's carnage, looting and doubt. I'm inviting you to a little self-inflicted. If you have some fear of God, 700,000 trees will be cut down, so be sorry. 700,000 trees are a very important amount, and a person's conscience aches, but what's happening is painful. Do you know how many years a tree grows? It takes you ten years to get a tree that you plant to turn its face. Imagine how many trees we'll be able to see grow in our lifetime. You know these things, I know them, but you don't have the tongue to say them, just like you can't say the thefts, corruption, shamelessness you've been accused of before. I beg of you: please take off your blinders, gentlemen, and see the facts. Not everything in life is politics. Life goes on. That way you won't get anywhere by being silent, protecting, hiding, but if you support those who cry out the truth, you'll be in the history pages. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0548par0092	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0546par0094	You don't have to answer everything, Minister! You got a new period, too!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0549par0095	If you say 700,000 trees, he'll answer.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0546par0096	And you've had a new period, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0550par0097	What did he say? What did he say as a tease? Mr. President, what he refers to at the third airport is completely wrong. I want to make that clear.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0551par0099	You'll do it all the way through the law when you're done explaining yourself, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0550par0100	Here, give me an explanation, fix it. Now, Mr. President, first of all, the decision to stop running is not for the third airport. This is a matter that is entirely directed to the CED, to the length of the suspension of the CED. In fact, such an application was made, thought to be subject to the Public Contraction Law. According to Public Contracting Law 4734, the tender must be made after the CED is prepared, but we did not bid there according to the Public Contraction Law, and we made a tender under Law 3996. Therefore, the CED report is not foreseen in Law 3996. However, the decision of the High Planning Board states that the CED should also be carried out and that whoever is taking the job should take action there in accordance with the CED. The second issue is that it refers to cutting down trees in the area. I'd like to ask our esteemed congressman if, in his day, dozens of mining businesses were licensed in that area, or not? Have there been hundreds of holes or not? With this airport, these pits will be closed, that evil image will be removed, and at least 8 to 10 times the tree that was cut down will be planted in that area, sir. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Elvan. I'm reading the reason for the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal for the same nature: That's 23. The amendment to Article 6428, the Minister of Health's approval, the amendment to contracts, has been estimated to apply to ongoing tenders and contracts. It is open to debate as to why such a change is needed in the contract on the current or ongoing tender process. The need for this change is controversial and 23. The amendment to the clause must be removed from the substance text by acting in the event that it is open to abuse and corruption to interfere with contracts. Now, who will speak for the Republican People's Party Group?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0552par0110	It's the Moonbeater.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0550par0111	Mr. Horseman, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0553par0113	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 24th Amendment of Law Proposal 561. I salute the lawmakers who do not resort to brute force, who are not corrupt, who are not corrupt, who don't commit theft, who don't defend and applaud all these vices. With the 24th article...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0554par0114	Who doesn't slander and lie!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0553par0115	Dear friends, what just happened was disgusting.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0555par0117	It's disgusting, it's disgusting. Why? He insulted me there for five minutes, slandered me.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0556par0118	Talk, talk, talk. People see you, talk about what you're made of.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0553par0119	If you think you can silence us with brute force, you're wrong. Your group vice president spoke of morality. Your group vice president has spoken of morality, and I think he's put that morality forward for everyone.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0555par0120	Of course.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0553par0121	Everyone will have their share of morality.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0555par0122	But you'll never get it!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0553par0123	If you think you can scare us with brute force on this stand, you're wrong.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0555par0124	And you think you're going to get the election by insulting it.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0553par0125	We have a life to give to God, and we have nothing else. Come and get it.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0555par0127	What a hero, hero!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0553par0128	Now, you're making two changes with the 24th Amendment. What are you two changing about? It's a matter of public private cooperation. Let me remind you, what did your blessed hands say when it came to public private cooperation, yes, and now you're changing: With the community's private cooperation, you've taken us out of our home hospitals and made us renters for 25 years. You said yes to making one hospital with the money to build five hospitals, and now you're changing that law. You're making two major changes, both related to corruption, both related to corruption. Here's what I'm telling you. One, think of a tender, the process goes on, you sign a contract, you get the authority to make changes while the process goes on, I don't know if you're aware of that law? It's tendered, it's done, it's processed, you say: I want to make a difference with this law. So you're mixing the contract with the law. Look, you're confusing law with open contract.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0557par0132	That's how you see it, that's how you see it!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0553par0133	If you are saying that we are not mixing the contract with the law, withdraw the law. The game's on, the game's on, the game's on, where's the rule change after the game's started, what kind of bullshit is that? Oh, no. You can never do that. You go to bed one night and wake up in the morning, and you say, "I'll do the job," which is not foreseen in the feasibility study of the tender, which is not in the project. No. How come? It's either fantasy or the law, and you'd rather do it with the law, or bring corruption with the law. Mr. Secretary, you just said that the law has been underfoot for two months. This is you, Mr. Secretary. Can you tell me something about Karaman? I wish you'd stay that far. How do you break the law? You're challenging the State with your 2nd amendment, and you're saying, "Well, I've made a tender, they've filed a complaint, you've cancelled a clause of this tender. What do you say, Mr. Secretary? I'll come, I'll put it in this tender, whatever the D.A. tells me. So, brother, if I had done it all over again, maybe it wasn't the person, maybe it was the person who won the tender, but you started the game, and then you manipulated it. It's called a clear, clear mix-up of corruption. You know why? Because you gave that contract to the side, you gave it to the men who put money in that pool. Now that my lord has asked for counsel, I will not do this to my ally. You say, "You make a law, keep this contract with the advocate."
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0558par0137	Open bidding, open. You can have this, too.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0553par0138	It's a clear, clear violation of the tender, but you're going to say, "Ya, Aytug Bey, never mind these things. Since December 17th, Turkey will be a disgrace to Turkey and so on." Is it okay? Well, you're doing what's best for you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0559par0140	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0553par0142	Speak decently, speak decently! Mr. Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0559par0144	Mr. Horseman, thank you. Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0560par0146	Okay.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0561par0147	It's not okay, it's going to be polite, Mr. Ünal!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0559par0148	Please comply with the terms of the General Assembly. Please don't insult me.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0561par0149	Did I insult you?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0562par0150	Of course you did...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0559par0151	Mr. Horseman, please take your seat. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0563par0153	I didn't insult you. I'm returning the same to you. You're rude!
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0564par0154	You did it...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0563par0155	They think they're gonna scare us.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0565par0156	I now submit to your votes three motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, lawmakers, there is a motion for a new clause violation. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause can be discussed on the motions the commission has already attended, and a number of motions may be submitted in this article. So I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission. If the commission participates in the motion with only 21 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause, and if it does not, I will remove it from the commission. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the Law Proposal on Changes in Some Numbered Laws. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mehmet Doğan Kubat Salih Koca İdris Şahin Recep Special Hakan Sergeantoğlu The third joke of Article 3 of Article 4342, dated 25 - 25/2/1998, has been changed as follows. "In the first joke, the property should be registered to the Treasury in the name of the treasure, while the municipality should be registered to its property or workplaces, for free or for a price given to real or private legal persons; however, they will not be allowed to move directly to the Treasury for any public service; however, they will not be given a notice on the basis of any public service; they will not be assigned to any amount of money, which is still registered to the Treasury, and they will not be given an additional amount of due to any amount of due to any amount of due to any amount of due to the amount of money, which is still under the law. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this joke are taken from the Ministry's view and determined by the Ministry of Finance." Does the commission participate in the motion with a simple majority?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0566par0171	We have only a majority, we agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0565par0172	Now, since the Commission has joined the motion with its only majority, I'm going to open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Anybody want a word? No.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0567par0174	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0565par0175	We don't give a reason because it's opened on matter. Since there's no demand for a word, I'm taking the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0567par0177	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0565par0178	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes on the new clause violation, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. There's enough to make a decision. Thus, a new substance has been added to the proposal, and the number of substances will be identified accordingly. Now, we're going through the previous materials, and the correction will be done later. There are three proposals on Article 25, which are of the same nature, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 25 of the proposed law. The following statement is added to the clause (c) as a joke. (c) This law is 23 and 24. Its substances take effect in 1,1,2030. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Ali Özgüşı Haydar Akar Kadir Gökmen Öğmen Öğümümün Now, I'm going to have two proposals in common, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the declaration of the 561 Numbered Law Proposal be changed from the first article of Article 25 to the date of its publication. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Lütfü Türkkan Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Erkan Akçay Adnan Aşik Güçük Does the Commission agree with these two proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0568par0205	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0565par0206	The government...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0569par0207	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0570par0208	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0565par0209	I'm reading the reason: A statement correction is made in the article. I'm reading the reason for the other motion: This motion aims to make matter more understandable. I submit to your votes these two motions of the same nature as the one I've given the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 25 of the proposed law. The following statement is added to the clause (c) as a joke. (c) This law is 23 and 24. Its substances take effect in 1,1,2030. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0571par0222	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0565par0223	The government...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0572par0224	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0565par0225	The government disagrees. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0573par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, as Republican People's Party, there was one other clause in our proposal for the law, which was that in 2008, we had arranged a provision for the Republican People's Party for this purpose to eliminate the victims of our citizens who used housing loans to the Japanese new and Swiss franc, due to the excessive rise of the institution. Our proposal was combined with him during the meeting of the ruling party's proposal in the Plan and Budget Commission, with about 30,000 of our citizens being born due to Swiss francs and credits to Japanese yen. In those years, in 2008, our citizens who went to the bank to get a mortgage were directed by the banks to use Japanese new and Swiss French mortgages. As a reason for this, the banks have expressed to our citizens that the level of money with Turkish money over the past decade has been extremely secure because of the fact that it has been observed at the same level, and our citizens have used it because of the direction of the banks. Our citizens have used this loan, which is far more flexible in matters such as Turkish lira, which are highly advantageous, longer-term, guarantor, collateral. However, after 2008, these two foreign coins had an extraordinary increase, and our citizens were in an extremely difficult situation. Many of our citizens' homes have been repossessed by the bank because they couldn't pay their mortgages; the house, which our citizen has bought for $300,000, has been sold for $200,000, and our citizen has suffered damage due to the mortgage debt of that house and has been lost because the house has been sold at a lower price. Many of our citizens have emerged, many of our families, who have suffered this kind of double injury, who have lost their family unity, who have left their spouses, who have been separated from their children, who have to take their children from their schools. For years, these citizens have been sending e-mails to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our MPs, sending letters, phone calls, sending SMS messages to our cell phones. We've considered that as the Republican People's Party, we've made an offer. There was a good atmosphere in the Plan and Budget Commission during the discussion of this proposal, where our citizens came, told them their troubles, and in the end, Mr. Recai Berber, our President of the Plan and Budget Commission, was interested. The National Movement Party has also shown interest in the Peace and Democracy Party, and it has come to a point where it will be resolved by an arrangement by the Banking Organisation and Control Agency without legal regulation. It's 17 o'clock today. The Plan and Budget Commission at 00...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0574par0230	President of the Banks Association, Mr Hamzacebi, Bank Association...
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0573par0231	The arrangement of the Banks Association -- I am correcting -- has been determined to find a solution. It's 5:00. There was a meeting in the Plan and Budget Commission on this issue, where all political parties joined. As a result, loans from up to 300,000 liras were proposed to a certain limit, and a solution was found through this coverage. The Union of Banks will now announce this solution to the banks by turning it into a generality of the Banks Union, and our citizens, who have been under heavy burden since 2008, will have taken a breath. All our citizens may not have solved the problem in the way that all citizens who use Japanese new and Swiss franc-indicted loans would like, but our legal arrangement is an important step in dealing with our proposal for a solution to the Union of Banks. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I hereby salute all of our victims who use this loan. I'd like to thank all of our friends, our party members, who've worked so hard on this. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0575par0236	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 25 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 26. I'm having them read. T. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Twenty-six of the proposed law. the clause has been changed in the following way. The Ministry of Transport and Health conducts these laws jointly. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Haydar Akar İlhan Demiröze Sakine Öz To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We demand and demand that the provision of the ordinances of the Article 26 of Law Bill 561 be changed in the form of the decree and added after the declaration of the decree. His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani İdris Baluken Sırrı Süzeyya Leader Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that Article 26 of Law 561 be changed in the following manner. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Erkan Akçay Lütfü Türkkan Adnan Şişek Ugly 1 25 - These laws are carried out by the Council of Ministers. Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0576par0263	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0575par0264	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0577par0265	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0575par0266	Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0578par0267	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you early in the morning. We're shrinking the mouth of another bag, or rather the mouth of a thief. They used to close the crochet in my neighborhood now that it's swollen, unfortunately, we're always going to screw it up, so we're going to have to dip it on one side, but we might as well dip it on our own. Dear friends, I've said it before, and I've said it in materials, it's the process of making laws and the technique is wrong. We've arranged 14 different laws, which are against the law, which you put together in the commission, not 48 hours later, and we've warned you there: it's like a rush, it's like a rush, it's like a law-making factory, it's like an emergency, it's like an emergency, it's a law-making factory. Unfortunately, before the ink's dry yet, sorry, before it's signed, we're now changing matter here with a preliminary explanation. This is not a law factory, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the legislature, the legislature of lawmaking, the office to ratify what has been brought before us, not the House of Approvement. Now, I mean, I'm not going in there anymore, there's no signature on one of the proposals, one of them's been replaced, so let's just say, let's face it, it's gonna look like it's missing. Unfortunately, there are arrangements being made here. We said, look, every time it comes in the Law of Retribution, we said. We're setting up a non-competitive, non-lethal restraining order. Whether you do so consciously or knowingly, it is true that friends have brought it. Are you accepting it because I find it difficult to understand it? I mean, you've said so much to any of our friends. Our ministers are responding, but alhak, there's this truth here. We didn't see what he said. It was spoken here at least 50 times, when the law was being made, our friends spoke in motions about city hospitals. It's not just us, it's those contracts that put your 20 years on loan and our children's next 25 years on loan. We say, "It's a liability." We say, "No one's heard from anyone." So, if you don't believe what we're saying, let's bring them in again, ask the relevant units, ask the Ministry of Development, there's opinions, there's evaluations, they wrote it. We need to see what's right here. Dear friends, there is no such law process. Let's do it till the end, bring them in, add them in, take them out; that's not going to happen. We've put it here: the executive authority belongs to the Council of Ministers. It belongs to the Minister of Health. Look at the 23s, 24s, who's changing the contracts? In fact, who is authorized to change previous contracts, or even to take and change them himself during the next twenty-five years of the contract I'm telling you? It's for the Minister of Health. Dear friends, beyond the urgency of the laws that have come in here, what is the need, what is the criticism of this, what will it cost us in these things, they need to be calculated. I just said the one about the tax. I mean, you're doing something at a certain place, well, you're making a special arrangement. Well, how much does it cost? We say, no. Any impact analysis? No. So, what kind of law? We didn't take this out, so the Justice and Development Party prepared the Law on Making Orders, so the Prime Minister prepared it. So, at least let's follow the rules of our own regulations. There is no process of making such a law, dear friends. You bring him in to discuss him in the Plan and Budget Commission so that the Internet arrangement can grow. What's that got to do with us, a bag? It has to go through the Justice Commission, there's a violation of the Constitution. We call it the MIT Law, the same as the Constitutional Commission. Tali came to the commission, and Mr. President didn't need to discuss it, we have work to do. He sent it back. For him, that's not going to happen, the process of making laws shouldn't be rushed, and the bag of laws shouldn't be the law anymore. When I am changing the Civil Code, I propose to the Parliament once a year, as if he had the authority to issue his own special KHK... he must leave as the term closes, with our friends sitting on all commissions, the groups agree, saying that he should come out, I wish him good luck, despite the lack of this time of night.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0579par0277	Thank you, Mr. Günal. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the provision of the ordinances of the Article 26 of Law Bill 561 be changed in the form of the decree and added after the declaration of the decree. Secrets Sakık (Muhs) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0580par0284	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0579par0285	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0581par0286	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0579par0287	I'm reading the reason: This motion aims to make the matter more understandable. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Twenty-six of the proposed law. the clause has been changed in the following way. The Ministry of Transport and Health conducts these laws jointly. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0582par0297	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0579par0298	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0583par0299	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0579par0300	Mr. Hamzacebi, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0584par0302	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we can sum up that the law we're talking about is very fundamentally editing three issues. First, Internet regulations. Prohibitive regulations in the previously adopted Internet law are required to be softened by a few modest steps here, but the fundamental flaws in the law remain. So, having authority to intervene in the executive body is the fundamental problem of the law, that problem is not solved yet. Secondly, the arrangement for hospitals that the Ministry of Health has co-operated with in public-private cooperation is extremely wrong. Contracts have been made, contracts have been arranged, and after that, these contracts have been interfered with by law in order to change the terms of that contract. Furthermore, this intervention is not limited to contracts that have been established so far. After the publication of this law, the Ministry of Health has the authority to change the contracts that will be held after 20 years, after thirty years and after tenders. There's nothing acceptable about that. The equality of competition with the law is broken, the law and the contract are mixed with corruption. Look, dear lawmakers, let's put aside your curiosity about the amendment to the tender law. Any change in this matter has caused trouble for your government, it will. This is a dark area. He came to tell me about it, our friends, our friends from the health department. I said, if you've had trouble with the tenders that have been made, if you've had a problem with the Ministry not having enough experience, let's overcome these problems with a temporary arrangement; describe those problems in this temporary material, and let's try to solve this. I said I could understand that. But from now on, I can't accept that you're entitled to adjudication forever to alter all contracts and contracts. Then he came to me with an investor MP with a former member of the political party. Aman, this is a very important substance. I told him the same thing. He said to me, Mr. Akif, you're absolutely right. I can't say you're wrong. He said you're wrong. Even the investor finds it wrong -- I mean, it may be true in terms of its individual solution, but -- objectively, when we tell it to him, the Ministry of Health is now bringing in an arrangement that he finds wrong. It's not enough for people to have good intentions. I can't tell our friends at the Ministry of Health he's mean. I don't think so. But this practice creates a dark space in the hands of the administration. Any wrong thing can happen in this dark space. This is extremely wrong. Again, the regulation of geothermal waters, the regulation of the relevant law, is wrong. At some point, which investment will be made, which will be decided by a committee of various ministers in the Minister of Development's presidency. Let the judge figure it out on his own. That's the way the law has come to this day. Why are we interfering with this by law? I don't think that's true. And I'm going to finish by doing a few evaluations on 2/B. The number of citizens who have applied to the Ministry of Finance has been 817,000 citizens. 634,000 of these have applied. 545,000 of the applicants have been found to be able to sell to themselves in order to qualify. So 545,000 of the total 817,2/B land user can be sold. It was identified by the Ministry of Finance and was initially left out of the scope of the law by 271,000 people. Great hopes have been given to the citizens, but these citizens have been excluded. The sale of 408,000 of our 545 thousand citizens, which can be sold, has also been made. These figures reveal how wrong the terms of the law are. And the arrangements here won't be the answer. We support the positive regulations of the law, like 2/B, but we don't support their negative regulations. Thank you. Good night.
tbmm-2014-02-25sit08spe0585par0311	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 26th article is accepted. Thus, the vote of substances in the second chapter is complete. The entire proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, the clear vote of the Law Proposal on Changes in Some Laws is: So the bill was adopted and legalized. We will now begin the talks of the Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 4th place, in order to confirm the Convention on Crimes in the Virtual Environment. Commission? No. It's been postponed. The decision was made Wednesday (February 26, 2014) at 14 p.m. on Wednesday (February 26, 2014) to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of draft and proposals. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
