tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0002par0003	Mr. President, I had a false statement in the last report. According to Article 58 of the Civil Code, I request a word to be corrected by a statement in the last report.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0001par0004	What was your statement misunderstood about?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0002par0005	I said something about a foundation, it's misspelled. Sir, to correct it according to Article 58...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0001par0006	For the record, to correct the statement, I have promised Mr. Young. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. However, it is promised here in five minutes, and so is the Civil Code. Well, I'll tell you one local thing, now that we have Hozat County, its population has changed to 6,000 last year, it's been reduced to 4,000 this year. It turns out that there are over 2,000 military troops out there, no military troops reported to the population, no Hozat population. I think it needs to be corrected because, friends, military troops need to be registered in the population of the district and the province, but for some reason, I wish that those involved would respond to this, because showing less than 2,200 or so populations would result in so much missing interest from the Bank of Provinces, which I don't think is right to reduce the amount of money given to 2,000 people in a region this far behind, to 2,200 people. Now, dear lawmakers, the other day, in my speech yesterday, I said, why did the Mayor of Fatih build a dorm building on a site that belonged to the treasure, and this was given to Bilal Bey, Mr. Recep's son for twenty-six years? I said here that the rent for this year is 14,500 liras a year. What's the word of 14,500 euros in a building with about 100 or so rooms in it? So he's getting a pretty big rent here, and he's granted a tax exemption, which is because he's Mr. Recep's son, so he's given this foundation a special tax exemption. Imagine, on the property of the treasure, construction is being built on the site, given to Bilal Bey for 26 years as a dorm building, where he makes millions of dollars, and then he gets tax-free. Of course, this is AKP's justice, and I'll have more explanations about it. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your promise, and my compliments, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0003par0015	Thank you. Likewise, Mr. Young. Now, before I go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri, who wants to talk about political corruption and democracy. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0004par0022	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-topic commitment to political corruption and democracy. On this occasion, I salute you all. Honourable lawmakers produce political corruption, the use of public power for the personal interests of those in power. The content of corruption creates actions and actions to provide personal benefit for public harm. It is the height of corruption that laws, principles, and values are replaced by interests. The source of bribery and corruption is the state, or rather the state's way of operating. Corruption of power ultimately corrupts politics. The corruption of politics also triggers bribery and corruption. Democracys enforce open society order. In democracies, secrecy is not a cover-up, it's openness and transparency. In democracies, the rule of law is not arbitrary. In democracies, political power has effective control of independent judicial bodies, not in control of decisions and practices. All of this prevents corruption from spreading in democracies. Therefore, there is an inverse relationship between democracy and corruption. Thus, democratic states face less bribery and corruption than autocratic states. It's possible to make a very simple judgment from here. If there's bribery and corruption, there's autocracy and a dictatorship. Press freedom, transparency in management, freedom of information and freedom, fair trial, effective control, bordering corruption in democratic countries. Dear lawmakers, it is the height of political corruption when a government tries to get away with saying that it is the parallel state that exposes allegations of corruption and bribery, including its own ministers. The dismissal of prosecutors operating in corruption, the disbanding of police, the changing of the Judiciary Code is clear evidence that power has been caught red-handed. The dismissal of prosecutors of the Lighthouse case is another proof that the AKP government does not recognise law and rules. Making arrangements to execute HSYK is an open attack on the legal state. In connection with corruption, a journalist asks Prime Minister Erdogan if MIT had reported it eight months ago, and he says, "Here is the parallel state." Prime Minister Erdogan considers intervening in every aspect of life and all freedoms his duty, even his right. Yesterday, phone records claimed to belong to Prime Minister Erdogan fell to the media again. According to this, on June 4th, Prime Minister Erdogan calls a publisher from Haberturk, ordering the removal of a broadcast he is uncomfortable with. Erdogan allegedly scolded the TV man and said, "What's the need for State Gardener to speak?" All of these have also shown the reason why television and newspapers in Turkey broadcast in one voice, one type and one format. Today, Turkey is a country where the Prime Minister decides whether or not even the opposition leader's words should be announced to the public. In Turkey today, the judiciary has become a hostage to the execution, the opposition leader's words have been censored by the Prime Minister himself, the Internet has been blocked, the press has been crushed, the universities have been silenced. There's no way to cover up the facts with newspaper support, publishing bans, pro-judgment threats. The government will see that this will not succeed by surrendering or buying the media as soon as possible. Developments also make clear where democracy and freedom of expression came from in Turkey. The Freedom House report, published a few days ago, made that clear. This report says that the media in Turkey faces a great deal of pressure from the government, and in the past year, dozens of journalists lost their jobs because of government pressure. AKP's immune system has collapsed against corruption. The public is aware that the AKP is trying to establish its own exoneration judgment. As corruption, bribery, pressure and bans grow, politics are corrupt and democracy becomes a formality. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Turkey needs democracy, not corruption and corruption. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0005par0033	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Eskişehir MP Salih Koca, who wants to talk about investments in Eskişehir. Here you go, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0006par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on Eskişehir and investments on behalf of myself. I salute your high council. Eskişehir is a city in the center of our beautiful country and in the middle of the transportation network. In 11 years, our government has transferred important investments and resources to our city every semester. On this occasion, I would like to thank you on behalf of my city and share with you the priorities of the investments. We are pleased with the work of our Ministry of Transport for Eskişehir. Our city has become the heart of the Turkish railway network with the completion of fast train work. Today, we are able to reach Ankara on the faster train from our city with high speed and comfort. With the same quality of service in the coming months, hopefully the Istanbul campaigns will begin. We also gave Eskişehir a great boost in the transportation of the road. With studies such as subgates, intersections, freeways, overpasses, transportation to our city and within the city has become easier, which has attracted investment and investors to our city, has contributed positively to employment, has increased the number of tourists coming to our city, and this has been a hundred laughs for our tradesman. Our Prime Minister, Eskişehir, promised our Eskişehir 5,000 housing dwellings. By means of TOKI, this promise has been fulfilled, 9,160 dwellings have been delivered, and by the end of the ongoing projects, we will have given 12,000 dwellings to our Eskişehir. By our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism during our rule, Eskişehir has so far been transferred to 805 million liras and continued to be transferred. Once the rising silos are completed in the Beylikova Besi Organised Industrial District and the main silos in our district of Dzihisar, Eskişehir will have projects that will change the fate of the region in agriculture. With the work of our Ministry of Youth and Sports, our city is getting the modern stadium it's been waiting for. The foundations of the modern Eskişehir stadium, where our prime minister's promise grew in 2011. In addition to the stadium in the region, we will have won sports facilities, gyms, swimming pools, closed gyms, youth centers. The stadium area in the centre of the city will be the Turkish world cultural capital square. There will be a city square with a longing for all the Eskişehirs over 54,000 square meters. Every chance we get, the answer to the demands of the square will be from our government. Thus the people of Eskişehir shall have a place worthy of them, with natural tissue, where they can breathe. With our 600-bed state hospital and our thousand-bed city hospital, a real health city, a real education city with our new schools and universities, our Hasanbey Logistics Village Centre, and industrial investments, we are moving rapidly towards a real tourist and cultural capital with our actual industrial city, our thermal resources and our Odunpazar homes. We are a city with new schools in education, justice palaces, tax offices, security palaces, divided roads that provide safe transportation with all neighbouring provinces, CSUDES and BELDES projects, and an investment of $7 billion, 250 million. With instructions from our Prime Minister Eskişehir has been declared Turkish World Cultural Capital in 2013. In the language of Ismail Gasparalı, he agrees, there is unity. The heart of the Turkish world beat in Eskişehir with events that have been carried out until today. Nearly 8,000 of our students have spread across the Turkish world. He's had a chance to know and meet. Thus was the introduction of our city and our country. I would like to end my words with the words of our Jonah. And we were raised up as springs, and became rivers. Now we are filled with the sea. I wish to introduce our city to many other services, thank the Prime Minister and our ministers at the beginning of all these services. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0007par0051	Thank you, Mr. Husband. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt (a member of the Ardahan MP) who wants to speak about Ardahan's problems. Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0008par0056	Mr. President, dear friends, on the border of Ardahan, Georgia and Armenia, in a strategically important region, it is also a region with heavy winter conditions. Now, it's really scary this year, and since it's not snowing, there's a frost, there's a cold. So, this is a local newspaper, which shows in this paper, minus 30 degrees, something taken last night, minus 30 degrees, 20.20, which is 20 minutes past eight, minus 30 degrees. Can you imagine two natural gas lines passing by, our people are still trying to warm up with turds in more primitive conditions? Outside the counter -- I brought the coal for the poor last week -- there's stone soil, there's coal that doesn't burn, there's cheap coal. Now, we're not against giving coal, we're against quality coal, we're against coal, if we don't get coal, let's get cash, let's get coal with the citizens' money, but most importantly, Kars-Ardahan, where the heavy winter conditions are passed, we need 50 percent discount for coal. The Mesut Yilmaz government then had a 50 per cent discount, with 50 per cent discounted in eastern Anatolia, coal fields. Now, even though natural gas lines have passed, we have a district called Hanak, a natural gas line crossing, a power plant, we can't get natural gas, we can't get natural gas filters, so natural gas is polluting the air, bad coal is polluting the air. We say, when the Republican People's Party takes the mayor's office, we will definitely block that door, and Hanak will get natural gas and Hanak will definitely get fresh air, otherwise we will stop the power plant of the gas there. I'm making myself clear. Two, same as Ardahan, no zoning, crooked urbanization, same air pollution. There is the same in the lake, and there is the same in the wild, and in Damal, and in Posof, and in all our districts, and in Kars. Since the altitude is high, there's oxygen low, shortness of breath, and people are miserable. Dear friends, I'll give this minus 30 degrees to Mr. President. Now, our territory lives on agriculture and livestock. Dear friends, our animals are freezing, our water is freezing, our cars are freezing. It's a mess right now. Have him take the area into disaster, declare it a government and a disaster, and get help there immediately. We want him to take precautions against the cold, freezing colds in the area. In that area, at the same time, our people are animals. They haven't paid for the animals' food plants yet. Now, people don't have money, they can't buy bait, they're miserable, they have to pay for the feed plants right away. If it's not paid, I'll take action here in the Grand National Assembly. I'm telling you from here. This month's feeding money... the peasant's a mess, we have to save the peasant, let the feed plants be paid, let the gas money be paid, I'll act on this stand if it's not paid, no one will forgive me. I'll tell you that. Three, there's no reception in our villages on the border with Georgia, in our villages on the border with Armenia, my friends. This is Turkcell, Avea and Vodafone, these companies are lying. I'll tell you with his papers. Look, why are they lying? On 18/5/2010, I wrote to Turkcell, Avea, and Vodafone. Let's set up a cell tower here. They're advertising, spending millions of dollars, and they say, "We're getting phone calls everywhere. They're lying, they're not getting reception. I got a call today from a friend of mine, Baha Yunusoglu, who's running for city councilman. In the wild, in Damal, in some villages, there is no reception, a citizen is unable to raise a patient when he is sick. Vodafone and Turkcell and Avea are lying. Look, I sent the article then, and in 2010, they were going to build a cell tower four years ago, and they're not setting it up. They advertise it, but they don't pay. There are also some villages in Damal. Dear friends, my time is running out. Winter conditions are very heavy. Because of the power outage, people have no electricity in winter, in the cold, and they're performing from agricultural loan cooperatives to lakes. This execution must be stopped immediately, and the foreclosure proceedings must be halted immediately. I'm asking you, it's important because people are miserable. He can't sell his animal in winter, and he can't pay for it, like he can't sell it. I'd like to pay my respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0009par0067	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. I will make a promise to our friends according to the 60th article. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0010par0072	Mr. President, the road and water problems in Giresun and districts continue to suffer. Düzköy village in Çanakçı district of Çalakçı is having a serious thirst problem in Armutlu neighbourhood, and the road problem can't be solved in the village of İynesil, İshaklı district of Bajramoğlu district. Citizens of the village say their application to official authorities is inconclusive. In response to questions regarding the water and road problem at Giresun, we see that the Interior Ministry has not been able to identify these villages enough. Is it the result of advanced democracy that our people living in our villages in the 21st century are struggling with the main water and road problem that they need? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0009par0074	Dear Varli...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0011par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP and the Prime Minister, who have always talked about advanced democracy, have been able to take some of the television and newspapers out of order with other people's money, while some of them have been able to silence the opposition by applying political pressure on television and newspapers. The last example of this is that the Prime Minister called Haberturk TV and asked Mr. Bahçli to be removed by not being able to tolerate his subtitled report. How appropriate is it that a government in the judiciary, interfering with the law, interfering with the police, making new appointments every day, sir, talking about democracy every day, taking the appointment of judges, prosecutors to prevent investigations? I leave it to the conscience of our nation, and I offer it with respect.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0009par0078	Thank you. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0012par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. We have Kılıçkaya district in the district of Yusufeli, Artvin Province. There's one thing about our town: we're a really cute town that's got the first female mayor out of the Republic. So for Turkey, the first city of Ataturk is a city where women are elected mayor when there is no name for women all the way to Europe. Unfortunately, in this town today, our municipality has recently been shut down. Besides, there's a Kılkaya High School in the country. There is a hesitation that this Kılıçkaya High School will be shut down for lack of students. There are 55 students who have lived here. There are staff. There's a serious hesitation about this. The distance to Yusufeli district of Kılıçkaya is about 15 miles [25 km]. There's a victimism in this, and it needs to be resolved. Doubts about this need to be removed from the public. He demands that national education and relevant governorship take the necessary measures and that administrative measures be taken so that the high school in Kılıçkaya will not be closed, thank you, my dear President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0009par0083	Thank you, too. But I'll give you an additional piece of information: Now, there are Algebra MPs at each party, and I'll say it as an Izmitli. As far as I know, the mayor of the city has left the city as a woman, and let us remember the late Layla Atakan. Now, Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0013par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we've had two business accidents recently. One was a collapse at the Social Security Institution building in Adana, and the second was a business accident during an urban transformation in Ankara. Now, one of the most important things is that the Social Security Agency, the institution that needs to take care of the safety measures, there's been a business accident in the building that the institution has built, a cave-in, because there are no necessary measures being taken. From here, I address both government officials, ministers, and all business security experts at the Social Security Agency: these urban transformations and all buildings that are being built must be taken into account. It's no different than a massacre. Business accidents are no different than a massacre due to the lack of precautions. I invite you to be sensitive about this, to take precautions. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0014par0091	Thank you. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0015par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the second trial of Mehmet Ayvallıtaş, who was killed in a drive-by protest in June, where his family and friends seek justice. The other day, the trial of Ali Ismail Korkmaz, who was brutally murdered in June, was held in Kayseri. This trial was sent there for security reasons. In fact, all political, social, state crimes have been tried to be overlooked, but the public hasn't given up on murderers. A 19-year-old boy was ambushed and killed. The Metin will be followed just like the Skype case. Today, there has been an indictment against the representatives of the company of those who went on the trip to Salam Square for building a criminal organization. Who's a criminal organization? The ones who exercise their democratic rights, or the ones who brutally ambush young people and beat them to death? Don't kill the young, sirs. Those young people will build democracy and peace in the future, and those who take the lives of young people will surely answer to them. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0016par0099	Thank you, too. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0017par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have claimed that there was a nuclear bomb at İncirlik Air Base, in Adana, where the United States is being used, and that the AKP was playing with fire. In response to my motion, the Minister of Defense denied these nuclear bombs. Recently, ASELSAN received a tender in İncirlik, which is called the Nuclear Security Contract. The AKP government, which spent money on the modernisation of tactical nuclear warheads in Figrlik, cannot deny the existence of nuclear bombs here. People with a little brains don't want a nuclear bomb in their country. The nuclear bombs in Figrlik are to be destroyed immediately and immediately. The Prime Minister must give up this dangerous game immediately, not infect our people with the scourge of nuclear weapons. By the way, sir, the first woman mayor of Turkey is Mufide Ilhan. Thank you, for your information.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0018par0107	I know that too, but the mayor is Leyla Atakan.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0017par0108	İl sir is the mayor of Mersin Province, Mufide Ilhan.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0018par0109	Is it an ili? I know of a district of Mufide Ilhan.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0017par0110	Il, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0018par0111	Oh, I didn't know that, I just found out, thank you. I really knew about the county.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0017par0112	So I looked...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0018par0113	Thank you for informing me, good. Let's share everything there is to know about women, please.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0019par0114	But we need to look at the situation now, Mr. President. It's not like that at all, so...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0020par0115	Sir, don't mess with history, look at today.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0018par0116	No, I'll tell you the past, you men are men.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0021par0117	In 1956, Midyat Mayor Zekiyat Midyat, 1956.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0018par0118	For example, here... thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0021par0119	1956, Midyat.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0018par0120	Thank you, that's the first time I've heard of it, but I know the Mufide Ilhan Haným.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0022par0121	Mr. President, I'm the one who started the argument. It's a good thing.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0018par0122	Yeah, that's great, thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0023par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. As Al-Masheleli MP, I want to thank you for reminding me of Mr. Leyla Atakan, and for your remembrance. Today, I'd like to say something more beautiful about the Bigeli Mayor's Office of the UKOME, which has been in the hands of the van dealer in the last few days as a result of his arbitrary decision on transportation. Yesterday, in Gebze, private service shop E5 had to close the E5 bilaterally for half an hour. Two months ago, the Metropolitan Municipality opened the P plate for special service and sold the P license plate's tender to people at $67,000, while today it wants to authorise certain private lines to transfer from J plates to P plates free of charge. The interior ministry and its officials need to say stop, otherwise the mayor of Metropolitan City will be responsible for the responsibilities. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0024par0129	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0025par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. In particular, the information of public opinion and the university community is concerned about the lack of financial and autonomy rights of university professors and how their situation is worsening every day. I'd like to invite the Minister of National Education and the chairman of the Board of Higher Education to take an interest in this matter. Also, the technical teachers' problems have increased, and the new arrangement brought in last year has not been able to solve the problems. Again, despite the promises made by the ministers, it has upset the community that graduates of printing and building painters have never been granted the right to complete their engineering and architecture licenses. I invite the High School Board and the Ministry of National Education to resolve these problems, and I thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0026par0135	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current structure, production, importation, consumption, the producer's problems and solutions, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened on the basis of Articles 104 and 105 of the Interior Charter, as part of Articles 104 and 105, as part of the current structure of our country's main production, production, import, consumption, the way to determine, support the producer's problems and solutions. 1) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 3) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 4) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] 5) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] 10) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 11) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Tunceli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 16) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 20) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] 22) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 23) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] [[Bolu]] [[Let's go.]] [[Scholarship]] Anison is classified as an industrial plant produced in nine counties in our country. Their seeds are often used to give off a sweet smell in the production of raki. Nearly all annual production in our country ranged between 11,000 and 13,000 tonnes, mainly Burdur, is made in the provinces of Lakes and Central Western Anatolia. Turkey's production, up to 20,000 tonnes in 2000, dropped nearly 50 per cent by 2004 and produced around 11,000 tonnes. As a result, the annual change of the anise recollateral depends largely on the demand. As mentioned earlier, the use area is largely limited to liquor industry, causing the market to shrink, so the annual product is determined according to this market's demand. As a matter of fact, over the years, it's been supported by the fact that there are major differences in anise production. The first problem with anise production today is that old irrigation methods have been abandoned and not switched to rain or drip irrigation systems. In particular, the privatisation of TEKEL-based liquor factories, which is the most important recipient of the anise, has caused the problem to grow since 2009. Clearly, the fate of the unorganised anise manufacturer has fallen into the initiative of private enterprises since then, so the share of the manufacturer, who had to act individually and who was trying to convert his product into money as soon as possible, has been cut off. In recent years, this can be said to have been an effect on the producers' lack of enthusiasm for the anise plant, and, depending on that, it has been effective in the decline of production over the past few years. It can be said that the most effective step towards solving the problem is the organisation of all the local manufacturers. Our farmers who have long produced anises are already suffering from high input costs and low price for the product. Since its privatisation, the alcohol industry has been in the hands of foreign capital. One in particular is the Mei Liquor Industry and Trade Inc, which purchases anises as raw materials in the areas listed above. The known Mei Liquor company does not evaluate the products of producers who produce 4-5 producers in these areas while making an anise purchases from the manufacturer, but in smaller quantities. These manufacturers also set a price between them, making a mass purchase from the small-scale manufacturer at this price. Because the manufacturer wants to sell its product and convert it into money to pay for its entry costs by being in debt, which is not only in storage, but also in debt. However, local buyers from Mei Liquor Industries and Trade Inc are buying from 4-5 producers with 300-500 tonnes of anise, while other manufacturers are disregarded. Thus, even manufacturers with 15-20 tonnes of anises have to sell their products to these 4-5 manufacturers, who are forced to convert their product into money, even though they insist on selling all of their products to the buyers of the company. These large producers also crush the small manufacturer, as they gain unfairly by selling the anise to the company at the right price. Anise imports must be strictly prohibited. To protect the manufacturer, the Competitive Council must be appointed by the state and directed to produce with producers, support, bonuses and incentives. The state must warn companies to buy their products from all producers without discrimination, and if necessary, take legal and administrative measures. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On May 1, 1886, in memory of the struggle launched by workers to work eight hours a day in Chicago, America, and the hanging of four trade unionists leading this struggle in 1889, the Second International Assembly in Paris was considered the day of workers' unity, struggle and solidarity. After that, many countries celebrated as May 1st Labor Day and declared it an official holiday. It's been celebrated in our country for years, too, on May 1st. The event was recorded on 1 May 1977 in Istanbul's taxi square as significant in history. 37 people were killed during the May 1st celebration in İstanbul on 1 May 1977. As the celebration was about to end in peace, the Water Administration building and the Intercontinental Hotel (now known as The Marmara) panicked over the crowd, some were shot, some were trapped and some were crushed to death. This tragedy has shaken society deeply, and history has passed on as the bloody May 1st. There's a lot written and said about it, but it's just not been cleared up. There were no real criminals involved in the investigation and trial. Who's throwing bullets? Who gave them orders? Is there an provocation? What are their goals? Is the 5th floor of the Intercontinental Hotel evacuated on May 1st? Who's in room 510, 511, 512? Were there any shots fired from these rooms? Is it possible that on May 2nd, a bomb was detonated in front of the hotel and destroyed with imported glass instead of broken glass? All these questions remain unanswered. In particular, a variety of comments have been made regarding recent painful events. Some writers and politicians show very different ideas about this event and prevent dark hands from showing up. If a parliamentary research commission is established on the events of May 1, 1977, it can also be obtained information, documents from relevant institutions and organisations, which may be heard by those who have lived or had information about the events. The issue is legally timed, but the magnitude of the event, the inability to reveal the truth, remains a concern for the public conscience. In the democratic law state, nothing can be shut down, not just because there's been a statute of limitations on the loss of 37 innocent people in order for society to live in peace and to look forward with confidence. In Article 5 of the Constitution, protecting the republic and democracy, providing for the welfare, peace and happiness of individuals and society, the main objective and duties of the state have been considered under the title. This mission falls before each institution to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which serves as a legislator for the nation. In order to clarify the points left in the dark about the May 1 incident, where we have lost 37 citizens to celebrate in peace and security the 1st of May, where we have lost 37 citizens in order to end the recent debates, the Constitution's 98th and TBMM Council, under Articles 104 and 105. [[İstanbul]] [[Bolu]] [[İzmir]] [[Çanakkale]] 5) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 7) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 8) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 9) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 10) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] 16) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Gaziantep]] 18) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Manisa]] [[Edirne]] [[Adana]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The problems of art and artist in our country have been discussed for years, but it is known that there is no systemic solution to these problems. In particular, recent discussions on theatre have brought up the problems of art and artist. The debate of practices that have begun in Istanbul City Theatres recently took a different size with the Prime Minister's participation. As long as the repertoire of Istanbul City Theatres began as a result of the transfer of authority from artists to a bureaucratic board, the resignation of reacting artists and their responses in various ways, the Prime Minister joined and said: "Who are you? Where do you get your driver's license to say nothing about everything, to claim you're an authority over everything? Do you have a monopoly on theater in this country? Do you have a monopoly on art in this country? Are you the only ones who have a license to say things about art? Those days are over. Now the age of reproaching this nation is over. There's no government-issued theater. I'm taking theaters to privatisation. Be my guest and play your theaters as you wish." It is important that even British Margaret Thatcher, known as the inventor of privatisation of privatisation, does not include privatisation of theatres, as well as the privatisation of theatres in Paris, London, Berlin and Moscow. In fact, there is even greater sensitivity in Germany, "the theatre cannot be privatized, nor can the police, finance or military be privatized." The media media organs, which are dominated by your understanding, are addressed by experts on the subject. Experts say that the theatre is a "public service" and that this is a parallel practice with the understanding of the social state. From here on out, "the theater needs autonomy, not privatisation." It's reached its conclusion. Of course, art and artist's problems are not limited to these. Many problems are an obstacle at the point where our artists perform their professions. There is a need for a special study on systematic consideration of these problems, on how solutions can be found primarily by the parties and experts. Our artists come together to be organized by various names against their injustices and to exist in the union struggle. The Actors' Union, known as the Players' Union, was formed. The union is conducting various studies to draw attention to the problems of artists in our country. Other than the discussion of the privatisation of theatres, all actors are subject to one legislation, all kinds of actors are problems in the players' agenda, such as the legal definition of any kind of acting and the regulation of employment, the introduction of Turkish player inventory, the ILO standards of business law, the establishment of all players and the establishment of social security, the setting of base fees in all areas, the setting of copyrights, the regulation of unemployment insurance according to the working conditions of the players, and the lack of pension problems of any player. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of our Republic, said: "Sirs, you can all be MPs, you can all be ministers, you can even become presidents, but you cannot be artists." The artist's importance is highlighted by the artist. It is clear that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must deal with the problems of art and artists without forgetting this importance. Therefore, in the interest of discussing the privatisation of our theatres and the problems of our theatres in recent days, we respectfully present the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th and Great National Assembly of Turkey, in order to investigate and address the problems of art and artist in our country. [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] 3) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] 6) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 7) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 8) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Çanakkale]] 10) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 11) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 12) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Bolu]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] 19) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Manisa]] [[Edirne]] [[Adana]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Altay, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0027par0325	Thank you very much, Mr. President. By the way, is my new voice okay, Mr. President? Is my voice good after the vocal cord surgery?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0026par0327	Get well soon. That's good.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0027par0328	Thank you. Mr. President, today is February 5th -- February 5, 1937 -- the anniversary of the introduction of the secularism principle to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, which is not to be changed. On this occasion, I would like to express to all our elders in the past, who have met the Republic of Turkey with secularism and who have allowed us to live like this forever, that we are grateful, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, that we are mercifully and gratefully remembering them as the Republican People's Party. Furthermore, in a country where ethnic and sectarian differences and diversity are so large, I confirm that the events in the Middle East and North African countries, the unwanted events are not happening in Turkey, that we are in debt to the principle of secularism of the Constitution, and the state, and that we are aware of that, and that I hope that the Republic of Turkey will live forever on the secular nature of the state. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0028par0333	Thank you. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday/02/2014 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu and 37 MPs were issued on 13/12/12/2012 by the Parliamentary Council of Turkey for the purpose of investigating the issues of justice workers (618 rows) in order to determine the measures needed to be taken. lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which will be read in Wednesday's 5/2/2014 session and held in the same dated combination of its talks. The first word in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is Mr. Ugur Bayraktutan of Artvin MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0029par0348	Thank you, Mr. President. At the beginning of my words, I salute the members of the High Assembly who listen to us, our citizens at the head of television, especially the workers of justice, 50,000 workers of justice, and the workers of justice in my own constituency, Artvin. First of all, I have a thank you, dear friends, for the problems of these justice workers, the management of the headquarters of Turkey, and also our representative at Artvin, Ugur Ozer. Now, first of all, I would like to say that the 1924 Constitution, the first constitution of modern Turkey, has adopted the separation of forces over the basic qualities of the republic as a fundamental argument. You know, the separation of forces gathered under three separate principles in law enforcement, executive and judiciary has stated that the authority to legislature will be used by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, by independent courts, and by the government of the republic. In Article 9 of the Constitution, judicial authority is used by independent courts on behalf of the Turkish nation; in Article 138, the independence of the courts has been expressed. My dear friends, who have used the jurisdiction of third leg, which is the third foot of his hair, should be well known that it is not just judges and prosecutors. There are clerks working in the Justice Department, there are bailiffs, there are editors, there are technicians, there are drivers, and there are all kinds of technical staff. I mean, I don't think we should rule it out. In 2013, Justice Minister Sadullah Ergin, who spoke with the Plan and Budget Commission earlier, said, "My dear friends -- the functioning of the judiciary, as well as the prosecutors of the republic -- are building justice workers who are working in the judiciary" -- say: "The judges and prosecutors in our country do all their procedures until the beginning of the files." The preparation of the hearing is carried out by judges and prosecutors, such as the execution of the hearing, the fulfilment of the interim decisions, the writing of decisions, the finalization of decisions, the management of the pen. So the Minister of Justice sees that, in the leg of justice -- about the workers of justice -- as if there was nothing but judges and prosecutors -- this foot is just a historical illusion, as if it were just judges and prosecutors. My dear friends, I'd like to rephrase from here. Look, justice workers are a huge organization, and we're dealing with a great labor organization over 50,000 people. Now, we've proposed a research proposal, a group of suggestions regarding these. We'll discuss whether or not there's a problem with their problems. They have problems with their financial rights, they have problems with their rights. In a sense, the workers of justice are insubordinate. You can't solve the problems of justice by building the buildings of justice, building the palaces of justice, building an institution in which there are no people. These institutions can only become a pile of concrete. If the justice institution doesn't solve the problems of its employees, if it doesn't make any improvements to their financial and autonomy rights, as we say, the palaces of justice are just a pile of concrete. So I think we should consider these issues. My dear friends, what are the problems of the workers of justice? Look, one of them is that the Justice Department has thrown a ball at the Treasury and the Council of Ministers regarding overtime fees, and the Finance Ministry has previously spared overtime fees, unfortunately, dear friends of mine. They were working overtime earlier, and the wages of justice workers working at the end of the week and off-hours have suddenly been ignored, which includes an average price of 200 euro per employee of justice, my dear friends. Other than that, as of August 1, 2010, road compensations referred to as pool money were, in a sense, slashed, and they were spared justice workers, which is an average of $150 a month for a justice worker. In addition, the funds for the most important post-criminal seizures were taken from the workers of justice, where an average amount of about $350 is dropped to each employee, and the financial rights in this matter have been pushed back into the background. So if we take this as a global number, as a total number, something for 700 TL has been ignored. My dear friends, the workers of justice say, "If you show us 1 percent of the interest in refugees in Syria, there will be no problem for the workers of justice." They say, "Are debts to the IMF being paid for the overtime of the justice workers?" They say, "I want to rephrase that in Parliament." My dear friends, in promotions in all public institutions, the event is that they are all equal. The principle of equality has been considered, but overpaid only for employees in the Ministry of Justice, over-promotions have been paid, underpaid, less promotions have been paid. Which means that even though the judges and prosecutors have high prices, plus 10 per cent -- 10 per cent of their salaries are annual -- plus 125 lira has been paid. Now, when you put judge prosecutors and justice workers side by side, when you compare the difference between low and overpaid promotions, you'll see how big the problem is, my dear friends. After a criminal seizure, judge, prosecutors are allowed to rest, but the workers of justice are not allowed to rest. I ask you, are the workers of justice Superman, my dear friends? Judge, there are prosecutors, but why don't there be justice workers? This double standard is required from here. My dear friends, there are also problems with job security. Look, there's been a freak show that hasn't happened yet. The Ministry of Justice has implemented an interesting application in its writings to the Chief of Staff and to the regional administration. What's the deal here? In a manner that violates the policy of law enforcement, the clerks who work at that institution have been given a keyboard application test, and those who fail this test have been re-tested three months later, and if they fail, there is a good sign that there are unions in this country that if they fail, there will be annulling their employment obligations according to Article 98. When they stand upright, this wrong practice, this subjective application has been abandoned, my dear friends. There's another case: Mobbbing, psychological harassment at work. The justice workers, unfortunately the judge, have lost the peace of work, the conditions of working life, in a sense, in the face of the practices of prosecutors, prosecutors, plaintiffs, defendants, defendants, psychological abuse. And I'd like to draw special attention to that, my dear friends. Although there is a huge shield of protection in the investigations of officers based on the protection armor of Law 4483 in public today, we are putting a justice worker in a position where any forensic resolving of him with two lines of petitions will be carried out, my dear friends. What is their sin? I'd like to shout this from the Turkish Grand National Assembly. My dear friends, the bailiff staff, which is not in any other agency other than the judiciary, are unfortunately included in the auxiliary services class. These have been struggling for years to get them into the general category of services. Again, there are assistant classes in the justice department for many professions, which must be taken into the general category of services. My dear friends, there is another freak, 4/C. I also run into Artvin's Courthouse, and I believe that all of our constituencies have this weirdo. There's an app called 4/C, my dear friends. 4/C is modern slavery. Workers removed from public institutions today are employed at the courthouse under the name 4/C. We don't accept such modern slavery, we reject it, my dear friends. (Applause from CHP rows) In the courthouses, the application of 4/C in an institution claiming to distribute justice to Turkey is a disgrace to us, a disgrace. I'd like to rephrase that from here, my dear friends. There's a double standard in these practices that the Department of Justice has done, and there's subjectivity. Look, what do the justice workers want? They say: 1) The removal of the watch fee, overtime, transport allowance fees must be re-enacted. 2) In exchange for salaries, the terms of promotional fees obtained under the protocol of banks must be distributed equally to employees. 3) Administrators must be treated specifically with deterrent measures to abandon the mobbing of palaces of justice and workplaces. 4) The law of the legal law, which is one of the conditions for the implementation of independent judiciary, must be issued immediately. 5) The Ministry of Justice must open its doors for changes in the Upstruction Act and for the staff in the auxiliary service class to be able to take the promotional examinations in the field. 6) In order to ensure the conditions of the staff assigned to watch services and the ability to rest and practice in exchange for a watch, a watch must be organised by the right of rights. 7) The structure of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors must be made to stand against political interference. 8) A representative with the right to vote on behalf of justice workers must be held under the framework of the justice commissions. In short, my dear friends, the problems of justice workers are like an ajsberg, there are serious problems with financial rights, there are issues with equity rights, there are problems with working lives, there are problems with liabilities with liabilities, they go between loyalty and truth. We want to discuss these problems in Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's parliament, and we want you to vote on our motion to investigate, and we want to explain these problems to Turkey. On behalf of 50,000 workers of justice, I salute you, all of you, from Mustafa Kemal's parliament on behalf of their family.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0030par0380	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. The first word against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal belongs to Eskişehir MP Salih Koca. Here you go, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0031par0384	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge against the Parliament's inquiry motion to investigate the problems of the justice workers, and I salute your grand delegation. Part of the motion is mentioned that justice workers, who are expected to improve their economic conditions day by day and work under heavy labor today for an average of 1,600 euros a month, have lost $770 from 2006 to today. When you read this chapter, it's as if the perception of justice workers getting paid around $830 today is being created. However, I would like to share with you, with the figures, what is the final situation of financial and autonomy rights, what has been done. The salary of a staff member of the Justice Department, whose title was editor, was 531 liras in 2002. This 531 lira salary increased by 490 per cent to 3.135 liras in 2014. Likewise, the salary of a 12th-degree clerk has been increased by 540 per cent to $1.971, while the salary of 308 liras has been increased. The salary of a bailiff working at the 12th degree has been raised from 301 liras to 513 per cent, to $1.846, and a servant's salary has been increased from 305 lira to 514 per cent, to $1.872 per cent. Of course, we have to say here that the total inflation of this period is around 140 percent. We need to repeat here that improvements reached 540 per cent in an inflation environment around 140 per cent have been made. The ministry's central office had a low salary of officers. Instead, the data preparation control management and the computer management staff were paid extra fees, and some improvements were made in their rights. In 2001-2012, transportation grants were earmarked as a contribution to transport costs for employees in the judicial and administrative judiciary, within the capacity of the Employment Institution's budget, to cities in the city's status and cities whose population was more than 200,000. In about 28 counties, over 200 lira a month has been paid for service fees. In addition, the chief prosecutors of the Ministry's Employment Institution's budget, Ankara, Sincan, İstanbul, İzmir and Kışyaka, and the head of the district administration and administration court have been authorized by the Executive Board to purchase staff transport services, covering the 2013 and 2014 years. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as the EC PARTY, we believe that the most important obstacle to Turkey's development is the obstacles to democracy. Therefore, we especially care about developments in the field of justice in order for further democracy to be established. Let's go back and see what's been done in the 11-year-old AK PARTY government about justice. The reforms that took place in this eleven-year period clearly tell us why every choice the EC PARTY made was a clear winner. What has happened in these eleven years that Turkey's people have embraced and strengthened the EC PARTY so much? The opposition is so critical. Despite such criticism, why did our people embrace the AK PARTY, so much that they loved and embraced it? Our people, AK PARTI, are the foundation of justice. Since our country has taken justice in its understanding, it has so much loved the fundamental laws that it has lost all its resources in our legal system, that it has failed to meet the demands of our society, as it has promised, because it has made it possible not to live any longer by the constitution of coup. Our people loved the EC PARTI (AK PARTI) so much because the National Judicial Network Project, which presented IT technologies to the service of the judiciary, connected it with electronic networks such as the Court, population, deed, police, and election boards, to many of the boards, to remove bureaucratic barriers. Our people have welcomed the AK PARTY because it has increased the capacities of the high courts in order to shorten its long trial time with its understanding, building magnificent palaces of justice across the country and moving the courts from basements to palaces. Our people owned the EC PARTY for the first time by preparing the Judiciary Reform Strategy, for the first time, for the purpose of planning reforms, for the sake of justice, by building five times more justice service buildings than in the history of the republic. Our people loved the EC PARTY because of its zeal and sincerity to create a justice system that each part of the community trusts in in this area that concerns almost every area from economic development to the institution of social peace and directly affects the everyday life of our people. Because he increased the capacity of the Forensic Medical Association and stepped up its services and expanded its services across the country, he adopted so many new and modern criminal execution institutions that he had made the necessary legal regulations, that he had adopted the alternative solutions that would allow law conflicts to be resolved through intermediaries, that he had established laws that would bring the administration's functioning into effect laws that would make it easier for our underprivileged citizens to get legal aid in the legal cases that are weak. Our people loved the EC PARTI (AK PARTI) because on the 12th day of his coming to power, he lifted the extraordinary state of freedom of the press, expanded the barriers to express thought, removed no murder in his time, allowed an individual application to the Constitutional Court, never compromised its democratic stance by ending its policies of denial, denial and assimilation. So, thanks to some of the developments that I've passed on, our people have embraced, loved, and embraced the AK PARTY. The AK PARTY has always been a beacon of hope for our people, who have been deceived by little words, many works, many years of empty promises, and never let that hope go to waste. I think it would be appropriate for the work to continue on our agenda, and I hereby salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0032par0401	Thank you. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, the final word is İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzzelkin. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0033par0405	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The Republican People's Party's group proposal is to make arrangements for the social rights of justice workers, in which case a parliamentary investigation will be launched. Of course, I salute all the court staff, the courts, the prosecutors, all the court workers, and I want to do this greeting in remembrance of the woman who was murdered at a stop in Mamak. Once again, we condemn all women's murders with hatred. Dear lawmakers, as you know, the overtime fee for public employees under Code 666 has been revoked, which has been done in equal terms of equal work, but there was no equal work and there was no equal pay. In fact, in particular, Turkey has been discussing the justice mechanism, the judicial system, the prosecutors and the law enforcement force -- as you know -- in recent years and in recent days -- as a whole. It's a very important place here, unfortunately, that in all of this, the public's attention, the problems of the forensic workers, whose numbers have reached 46,000 today, which are not at all limited to what the public doesn't approve of, and unfortunately, that kind of fair living is not an issue for them; it's not legal for those who serve justice, and they're very likely to complain about their situation. Especially after this last app, all earned rights have been eliminated. It's already low wages, but in court and prosecutors, in execution procedures, especially in extracurricular studies, which are a huge intensity of their work, which is a huge amount of hearings, writing of verdicts, post-investigation and criminal transactions, all of which are seen to be taking time off-hours, there's a large forensic community that doesn't get paid back, and with all of that, there's a government worker involved. According to our Constitution, there is no forced labor, but unfortunately, all of these practices are in effect as a chore. The Constitutional Court has broken this application, or rather it has broken its verdict, but the practice is in effect. Restrictions from court workers, here are transportation costs... look, not all cities except Ankara, Istanbul and İzmir are covered, and transportation allowances from 155 lira per month -- based on information given to us -- have been reduced to 85 lira per month and have just begun to be implemented. In fact, no transport grants are given to 4/C. Ask a lot of questions. Indeed, even the tea that the court workers drink has become a great burden on their backs. Women laborers don't have day care in many places. In the face of all these problems, of course, the Republican People's Party's proposal has been very good. For all the public workers, not just for the employees of the courthouse, but perhaps for all the civil workers whose rights have been seized and forced to work as slaves. So, I want to go from here to this: so we're going to do an equal practice under the name, we're going to do it. Where are those who are restricted, who are restricted from these workers, who are not paid their overtime fees, who are not allowed to do so? Where are they going? Look, I want to give you an example of them. Again, they have a joint organisation as court workers, public workers, workers -- the whole working population. In the past, the SEC, BUG-KUR, Retired Ark, you know, three organisations met on a roof under the name of the Social Security Corporation. As a solidarity organisation, we learn from this Social Security Agency, which is tasked with protecting the interests of all working workers, protecting their social rights, maintaining their pensions from their health -- which, in these budget talks, has revealed reports from the General Assembly and lawmakers, which were banned from their control -- that in 2012, there was near 4.8 billion damage to this SGO budget. I mean, the Social Security Agency is the valued lawmakers who've been robbed. I mean, robbery, theft, looting, that's all we've heard so much about lately, but this mechanism, this wheel, is included in the Social Security Agency. What is the budget of the Social Security Agency, and how does it come about? As we know, the majority of them, most of them, of course, are a whole lot bigger than the premiums, the contributions, the indirect taxes, all of that. He is presented to our workers, our public workers, our tradesmen, so that he may continue his retirement in the future, which is distressed, sick, and in the future. But, here's what's taken from us, what we've paid to live, to live, look who's been hosed down, who's allowed to be hosed down by? How was he robbed, Social Security? Employers didn't get bonuses. Oh, and if you say, "Where is this information from?" The other day, in the Universal newspaper of February 4th, this information was made clear; on February 4th, yes. Employers didn't get bonuses. Those who should be punished were not punished. Unnecessary bonus incentives. I mean, what's the unnecessary bonus incentive? As you know, laborers between the ages of 18 and 29 are given bonus incentives, but we're looking at child workers under the age of 18 and those who employ over 29 have been given this bonus incentive discount, and those who employ illegal workers have taken advantage of this discount. How much? 59 million liras. Likewise, there was no collection from employers. What is it with these employers that buys pens? Prim, unemployment insurance, administrative fine, contribution to education, special processing tax, stamp tax. How valuable are the MPs? Two billion liras. So 47,000 employers drank $2 billion by not paying Social Security in these ways and methods. Again, I'm going to continue, a significant part of this damage is a loss of bonus. How's that? Workers' services are reported missing, service times are reported missing, or some employers, investors never report them. The wages of employees in various businesses are shown to be low. Cheating's too bossy for a bunch of bosses, cheating' in a rich club is too much, not showing' the real wages, but losing' them from there. How much? Four million liras. As a result of no reports of 146,000 people... You know, there's a penalty for not being reported, there's an administrative fine, but there's no 133 million lira fine. Again, no punishment has been imposed on those who did not report the departure of insured employees when they should have been reported. More than six months of incentives have resulted in $4 million in damage. Those sports clubs that we love so much, the services of athletes and technical men have never been reported or their earnings are missing. How much? The loss of $10 million in bonuses. Ten million liras of administrative fines were not issued. $40 million is missing, no one's responsible. We wish the Social Security Administration wouldn't bill all of these crimes, all of these crimes to 27,000 employees working there, workers. You know, these elephants have been bouncing around lately; the rulers, the rulers, they've split up among themselves, they don't see each other's guilt, they cover it up, but the bill goes to the worker, the public worker, the shopkeeper, the poor people. This morning on TV, a member of a rich club, while referring to this recent government crisis, the crisis in politics, the Mesut Yilmazlar, Tansu Cirller, Özallar, all of this came, we saw it, we passed it, and this will pass, and Devran will pass. Who's he driving for? It's for the investors. There's a crisis, there's a crisis, there's a crisis! The workers, the workers, will stir up this system of capital and corruption. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0034par0420	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. The last word against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is for Mr. Faruk Bal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0035par0423	Mr. President, I stand before you to present the views of the National Movement Party in a motion to improve the rights of justice workers. I salute the grand jury. Justice services are the most important service in public service that separates the right and the law of our citizens from the right and the wrong and the guilty from the innocent. The workers of justice are working hard, working hard, and working hard to perform this service. Not only do they have housekeeping services, but they also have the bailiff services and the duty of a clerk. Our bailiffs do not only the services of bailiffs, but also the duties of clerks and editors. Our clerks don't just go to trial, so they do their job as editors. The chief officials do not only their own work, but they do their own work -- including writing decisions -- that can help the judge of the judiciary. Execution guards share their lives in the lives of those they protect, and they live as prisoners in prisons. Likewise, in prosecutors, courts, executive offices, court members who serve in election work try to live their lives by being crushed and pressed under millions of files. The economic and social situation of these workers is perperious to others. They have a standard of life under public service, and they can't devote their time to their wives, their children, their parents, their work, their work, their work, their work, their work, their work, their work, their work, their work, their work, their work, their work, their work, their work, their work, their work, their work, their work. Thus, the problems of these workers were expected to improve during the 11 years of Justice and Development Party government; unfortunately, within 11 years, the Justice and Development Party hit water in your air, unable to solve any of the problems of justice workers. At the end of our work with the very valuable headquarters of Turkey, and during the time of my professional service, we have assessed the problems of justice workers under the following topics, and we have desired that solutions be found within the framework of this research proposal. One of them is that the wages of the workers of justice are insufficient according to their peers. Two: Justice workers' wages are not equal to their peers. Three: Justice workers keep watch, they don't get a watch. Four: Justice workers work hard, most work late at night after hours, but can't charge overtime. The workers of justice serve the judiciary and cannot benefit from the grant of justice. Justice workers are at risk, they can't benefit from job risk compensation, the workers of justice serve justice, the compensation of justice can't, unfortunately, reach a healing job in their income under the name "Operation of justice." The additional indicators of those serving justice are low. Justice workers do not have technical service support compensation. Again, the workers of justice cannot benefit from their help in day care, services, food, and clothing. Like 4/C and 4/B, which serve justice within this scope, the AKP has not been able to bring a solution to people's problems for 11 years, as if they were destined to spend their lives in public service as a certain rowing prisoner. The bailiffs still haven't been able to assign a staff from the general services class. While the services of justice workers are like this, judges and prosecutors, on the other hand, who represent the other wing of justice, are performing a mission that reveals the color of the political regime, so judges and prosecutors have tasks that can answer the question of whether there is democracy, balance the executive body, control the legislative body, balance the legislative body. In these tasks, the AKP has carried out the same fear and more severe judgment that it has created for 11 years, in the businessmen in Turkey, in the press, in the trades and other areas. A great deal of pressure has been put on the judges for fear of inspection, and judges are so intimidated that they will decide to listen to their own calls. My dear friends, this is where the salt smells. This means that the judiciary, which will oversee living and running in a democratic country, is now finished. Thus, the AKP, who humiliated the judge enough to bring him to Habur, to take the judge to his foot in the tent court where he founded the Turkish flag so that there would not be a separatist terrorist, has also made the position of the chief advocate of the main opposition on one side of the investigations, on the other side the trial of Mr. Prime Minister's prosecutor, a sandwich pressed and politicised the judiciary on both sides. This image has emerged in many important cases, which have been monitored by the public, and confidence in the judiciary has now fallen. This was revealed by the work of the Ministry of Justice, the AKP justice ministry itself, as well as by the work of HSYK. With the politicization of the judgment... the value we gave to the judge in our law, in our culture, in our faith, in our faith, in our faith: the judge was the judge, the judge was the judge; the judge was the judge, the judge was the judge, the judge was the judge, the judge was the judge, the judge was tough; the judge was the judge, the judge was unafraid; the judge was humble, the judge was strong; the judge was strong; the judge was the text, the judge was strong. And that is how you have made a judge sitting in the leather of a prophet in Turkish-Islam culture an officer who obeys the order. How? After investigations on December 17th, he went over judges and prosecutors and police officers like the bulldozer. His visit to the HSYK once changed the shape of the HSYK. The prosecutor who served 20 critical cases has been removed from his duties, his files taken from him. Hundreds, thousands of police officers have been suspended from their duties as investigating police officers, and by a decree later issued, all those in critical positions have been seized. Now, he'll follow. I'm telling you right here, let the House go on record. In 17 provinces, you have destroyed police officers investigating AKP corruption and theft. In the first decision to come, you will distribute the judges and prosecutors on critical duty in 17 counties like freckles, and you want a judgment like the regent of Silivri. I'll tell you that. In his time -- as an example of bad government -- he writes to a judge in Silivri, an Ottoman general: "I read the Nazibri Regent, the traitor of the Shariat/I laughed, I laughed, I laughed, I laughed, I published the judgment of the Qur'an/Muhrü. I will hang you at the door of the court. Yes, you want to make the judges an officer who will cover corruption and theft by telephone, as Mr. Bahçeli instructed the person in Haberturk to remove statements in the subtitle of television from Morocco. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It doesn't respond to our culture, our faith, our faith, our past. It shows how great your fear, your panic is. Come back this way, follow the truth, the law, justice. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0036par0440	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0037par0443	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit01spe0036par0444	The roll call, yes. Mr. Altay, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Dirt, Mr. Sertauer, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Guler, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Trust, Mr. Akar, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Kesimoğlu, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Sun, Mr. Akova, Mr. Akova, I'll give you three minutes, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0036par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the Republican People's Party Group voted on the proposal, the roll call was not enough. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of Bart's MP, Mr. Yilmaz junç and 77 MPs in the 3rd place of the Law Proposal and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the 4th place, Mr. Oktay Vural, MP of the Social Policy Group, Minister of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister of the Law for Change in the Law and Law, Mr. Erkan Akçay and Minister of the National Movement Party of Manisa, Mr. Oktay Akçay and Social Insurance Party, Deputy of the Social Insurance Party, Mr. Oktay Vural, Minister of the Anti-Terror Policy Act, Minister of the Law for Change, Mr. Erçay Akçay and the National Movement Party for Decisions, and Mr. Oktay Vural, Minister of Social Insurance and Minister of Social Affairs, We will make an offer to make changes in the Anti-terrorism Act; We will make an amendment to the Security Act on behalf of the Social Law, and We will make it with the Constitution of the Constitution and the Constitution of the Constitution and the Constitution of the Social Insurance Act of the Social Security and the Security Act of the Social Insurance Committee and the Constitution with the Constitution. (x) 524 S. The Numbered Basmaz (28/1/2014) was added to its 53rd Union Charter. Commission? Here. Government? Here. According to the 91st Article of the Civil Code, the talks on the fourth chapter of the bill, which was considered the fundamental law, were completed. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section four to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. There are three proposals in Article 84. I'll have them read and processed in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 84th of the current bill of law. Article 3. At the end of the joke, we propose that the sentence "Vacif universities are also considered within this scope" and that the expression "first and middle education" at the end of the article be replaced as "first and middle education and university education." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Ramazan Kerim Özkan Hasan Ören Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Fatma Nur Serter Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 84 of the current law bill 524 be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı Seyfettin Yılmaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan "The third joke of Article 13 of Article 5580, dated 84-8/2/2007, has been changed as follows. The institutions are obliged to teach free students, not less than five per cent of the student population. The ministry can increase that rate by ten percent. In the free study, laws which require the monthly binding of Articles No. 12/4/1991, Anti-Terror Law 3/11/1980, Nakdi Reparations and Monthly Bonding of 2330, the Law or Law on Law 2330, the first and second of which requires the monthly commitment of the children, the 56th of the Law on Retirement of the Republic of Turkey, dated 8/6/1949, and the first of the 56th and 64th Articles of the Articles of the Law, dated 31/5/2006 and 5510, and the first of the Article of the Law, or the first of the rights of the rights of the children of the rights of education, or the children of the rights of the rights of the rights of the school." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 84 of the current law bill 524 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Levent Tüssel Hasip Kaplan Altan Tan Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0038par0056	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0036par0057	Government? We don't agree. Mr. Hasip Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0039par0060	Mr. President, thank you. Dear lawmakers, this clause adds a joke to the Special Education Institutions Act, and is specifically required to give priority to the children of some victims, first and middle school children. In the 90s, there have been painful incidents in Turkey, nearly 4,000 villages have been evacuated, 17500 unsolved murders have been committed. The number of our citizens who died during this period of conflict is very high and there are major casualties. As part of being a social state, our party has repeatedly voiced opinion that in some cases, such social welfare benefits should be granted to each and every community without discrimination. In fact, a law that we passed in 2012 -- citizens who lost their lives during the period of 30 years of conflict -- was sentenced to social security and salaries. There were already arrangements for the security forces, for the rangers, for their families. These regulations are already available, but we know that a lot of universities have actually opened in Turkey, a lot of foundation universities have been opened in order to be related to private teaching institutions. We know it's first and middle school. We think that a common sense of a social state would be extremely useful, especially for all of these parts, which are not in good economic condition, which should be supported. We also think it would be very helpful to have a positive approach to public institutions come in and in private schools, and in private schools, to set up a quota for that. Of course, we're talking about a very serious issue, such as education, a very serious matter about the social state situation, and really, it's not rational to take it to the bag of law. If only this had passed through the expert commission, if this had been discussed in the Education Commission, if this had been profiled in Turkey, for example, we could have made a suggestion to the government that since 2002 -- since 2002 -- the number of suicides or accidental deaths in the military has been around 6,000. It may be possible to see their children within the scope of this victimization, and it may be a study of the need to prioritize them in the same way. However, you know, no social security has been brought in about the deaths or suicides in the military, nor has there been any social work done on the education of children. There is another way to think about it: Yes, can this problem be solved with the additives brought in here, from where, from what need? In fact, this kind of bag is the kind of law that bureaucrats bring in, and that's what happens if we cross that barrier. With their understanding, Congress is designed, Parliament will. This bag raises its hand without much discussion in the law, the ruling party, and sometimes we make the wrong decisions; we've seen a lot of the decisions we've made here that we've made a month later, and so have mistakes. Do they have any data on children who have been given protection, care and shelter in education? Can the Ministry provide, of course, a statement, data on this? How many people are in this position? How many populations, how many children do they have? The House needs to know that, and so should the public. The cost report needs to be removed, and what is the opportunity to expand? How can that be done? Our party believes that this will be determined by serious scientific research on these issues, co-exploring with universities, collaborating with sociologists, jointly with local governments. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish you the acceptance of our motion, with respect.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0040par0068	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 84 of the current law bill 524 be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends "The third joke of Article 13 of Article 5580, dated 84-8/2/2007, has been changed as follows. "The institutions are obliged to teach free students, not less than five per cent of the student population. The ministry can increase that rate by ten percent. In the free study, laws which require the monthly binding of Articles No. 12/4/1991, Anti-Terror Law 3/11/1980, Nakdi Reparations and Monthly Bonding of 2330, the Law or Law on Law 2330, the first and second of which requires the monthly commitment of the children, the 56th of the Law on Retirement of the Republic of Turkey, dated 8/6/1949, and the first of the 56th and 64th Articles of the Articles of the Law, dated 31/5/2006 and 5510, and the first of the Article of the Law, or the first of the rights of the rights of the children of the rights of education, or the children of the rights of the rights of the rights of the school." Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0041par0077	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0040par0078	Government? We don't agree, sir. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0042par0082	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made in Article 84. I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, a country is governed by its institutions and its rules, and the constitution is at the top of those rules. Law, judiciary, and execution are subject to these constitutional rules, and the administration -- especially the government, the prime minister -- must obey the constitution, the law and the functioning of institutions, and must also make and improve positive contributions in the framework of certain democratic laws. However, during the Justice and Development Party period, Turkey is now under unregistered administration, Turkey is ruled off the record. I find a great benefit in bringing the concept of unregistered economy to a higher frame and bringing the concept of unregistered governance to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and our entire country and discussing it. Turkey is under an off-the-book administration, and the head of these off-the-book management activities is the Prime Minister. Dear friends, the Prime Minister himself censors televisions by calling media news managers. In the past, Abdulhamit used to apply censorship through censors, martial law, censorship officers during times of coup, and now the Prime Minister himself acts as a censor. Article 28 of the Constitution states that the press is free, it cannot be censored. E, you are embezzling the Constitution; you have put the Constitution on the shelf; in all your work and actions, you act contrary to the Constitution, you destroy the state wheel, and you destroy the Constitution. I don't want to tell the truth about Ziya Pasha, who started saying, "What days have we come to, O prophet? On June 6, 2013, President of the National Movement Party for Haberturk TV (National Movement Party) Mr. State Bahçeli directs Prime Minister Erdoğan by calling for TV to remove the subtitle. Mr. Prime Minister, they're a world, others are a world; you're going to call and talk like this. He says that the people around you and the dialogues are like this; Morocco is calling from Morocco. So Morocco-Turkey has given up their relationship, Mr. Prime Minister, and the media in Turkey is looking at how the news is doing. I'm watching TV in Fas, Mehmet Fatih Saraç: Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0043par0086	They're so easy to understand. Is he a KC operator?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0042par0087	Recep Erdogan is there saying that on this tape, the President's first duty is not to negotiate, but to correct this situation outside of these talks. He says that it is understood, sir. You say you understand, but he scolds you. Yeah, you say you get it, but, you know, I'm surprised, it's something like that. What's the use of all this?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0044par0088	Are those documents correct, Mr. Erkan?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0043par0089	I wonder if he owns that TV.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0044par0090	Are they true or true?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0045par0091	The Prime Minister, who is going to deny it, has not been denied until now.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0044par0092	Is it true?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0045par0093	And we believe it's true.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0044par0094	Where did you get those secret things?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0045par0095	It's your command, sir. It's understood. You have to do it now. It says. He's doing it now, sir. He says.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0044par0096	Is it true?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0046par0097	Let's play it a little later. Listen up.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0044par0098	What's right?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0046par0099	I'll play it for you in a minute; listen.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0047par0100	Dear friends, this is a master-slave relationship.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0048par0101	▪ Is it true, is it true, is it true?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0047par0102	It's a master-slave relationship, a labor-employee relationship. This is not a normal, civilized relationship.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0048par0103	What are you gonna do if it's true?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0049par0104	Let's wait for the trial.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0047par0105	Prime Minister Erdogan acts as if he's the boss of this television, like he owns it.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0048par0106	What are you gonna do if it's true?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0049par0107	Let's wait for the trial.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0050par0108	Mind your fucking business!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0051par0109	It's like he owns the TV, Mr. Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to extend my regards to all of you to continue the rest of our talks.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0052par0112	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 84th of the current bill of law. Article 3. At the end of the joke, we propose that the sentence "Vacif universities are also considered within this scope" and that the expression "first and middle education" at the end of the article be replaced as "first and middle education and university education." Ramadan Kerim Özkan (Burdur) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0053par0119	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0052par0120	Government? We disagree. Mr. Serker, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Hajji.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0054par0125	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're interviewing another bag of legislation. I assume that the bag is the bag ministers of the law, because the fact that a motion for any legislation is being evaluated without the concerned minister here, really, how appropriate, how reliable it makes the decisions of the legislative institution, I leave it to the discretion of our people, our nation. I believe that a minister who doesn't even know what the content of the motion is, we agree here. He thinks hands go down, hands go up, and some stuff goes through. So from now on, I'm saying the bag of laws will continue to meet with the bagkeepers. We've made a motion on Article 84. Our proposal was: Article 84 is a provision for the use of special educational institutions and children in need of protection. Private teaching institutions have a 3% quota. Children of martyrs and disability veterans from this 3% are now given a priority within this quota for children who need protection, as successful students can read at school free of charge. At first glance, it's a beautiful arrangement, but it's not real, it's not real, it's not practical, it's not practical, or it's an arrangement that only a few students can benefit from in practice. So it's a fantastic arrangement, an eye-opening arrangement, an arrangement that can't solve anything about the main problems of children in need of protection, because the basic need for these children is to be employed. What opens the way for employment is that these children can be used as much as possible by these young people as possible for higher learning. Now, if there really was a special quota for children in need of protection for universities, we would applaud it standing up, or private universities -- which are getting lower grades -- if a special quota is recognized, if they're known to children in private foundations without paying for education, if they're known to be protected. But today 4,792 children in need of protection are waiting for work, and 1,500 are added to it every year. A system that works towards monitoring and tracking these children's problems after they've been kicked out of the door because they can't go to college when they're 18 years old, for example, a general directorate has never been created, unfortunately. In the foster care mechanism, we're dealing with painful numbers that we're going to call funny, believe it or not. A family is given six children for protection, six brothers. This family sends one of these children to boarding school, sends five of them to the village to do whatever you want, but in return, they get $4,380 from the government. Another family, in Kars, takes four brothers, multiplies 730 to 4, that's all the money you get, but these kids are miserable. There's no serious surveillance on these. If there is to be a follow-up on children in need of protection, let the Ministry first see if they are in the institution or not. Look, the institution has three rehab centers, treatment centers: the MOGEM, the Centre for Protection and Rehab, the Centre for Maintenance and Social Rehab. There are children here who are troubled, guilty, in need of protection, but also in need of treatment. Do you know that 812 registered children are missing as of December? He's missing! So they're not among those who are both registered and actually looked at. Here's this sad picture, where we're training in private schools, and an eye-blowing understanding, like that, will bring no solution to the problem of these children. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0055par0134	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0056par0136	Mr. President, I have a feeling we're more than accepted.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0055par0137	But I did. If we count it, it won't be any different. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 85. I have them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 524 Orders Numbered Bill 85. Law number 5651 in Article Two. We propose that the clause (n) be removed from the article text, (o) and (o) jokes be changed in the following manner. access denied: "Current access to URL which contains only illegal content," The release of content states: "Remove content by content providers." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Muharrem İlk Erdal Aksunger Ramis Topal Haluk Eyidoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 85 of Law Bill 524 be changed as follows. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı Seyfettin Yılmaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu The first joke (j) of Article 2 of the Law (j) was changed in 85-4/5/2007 and added to the end of the joke in the following way. "j) Traffic information: values such as URLs, POST/GET packet headers, time, time, time, type of service, the amount of data being transferred and the amount of connection, except for URLs, POST/GET packet headers, which contain information on all kinds of access to the Internet environment," "n) Unity: Access Providers Association, o) Blocking access from domain: blocking access from domain, blocking access from IP address, blocking access to content (URL) The release of content from the broadcast: the removal of content from the servers or from the hosted content by content or from accessing the content from the IPs from the Turkish Republic p) URL address: full Internet address of relevant content on the Internet R) Warning Method: the method of reporting to the locator if no results can be achieved within 72 hours, to the content provider in order to be removed from the publication of the content by people claiming that their rights were violated due to the publication content of the Internet environment," he said. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the 524th amendment of the current bill be removed from the draft of the law. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tünzel Altan Tan Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0057par0172	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0055par0173	Does the government agree? We don't agree. Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0058par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, really, the issue of internet bans has been on Turkey's agenda for a long time. That's what we started with. We're bringing in a new arrangement. This new arrangement is a decree that immediately be passed to the public, by bypassing judicial decisions, by direct administrative authorities, or even by İB (TİB) within four hours. Now, in line with this, there's the Union of Access Providers, the Union of Accessors, behind which are names, concepts for blocking access. So, when this bag of laws was discussed, there was the Computer Engineers' Room in Turkey, did we hear it? No, guys. Have we ever heard of the Chamber of Electrical Engineers, who have worked for years in the software industry in RD studies? No. Have we heard from the experts of the relevant ministries of this bag of law? No. We're making a serious mistake here, guys. With the error we've made, we're making Turkey the fourth of the three countries in the world with the most censorship -- in an arrangement that affects one-to-one knowledge of 76 million people, human rights, law. So, when we bring this in, do you think you'll be able to make it happen? Believe me, you can't, because when you block access in the tech, there are other ways to access it. It's very good that if you'd listened to what kind of users you had to get from the VPN, the VPN, the VPL, the security entrance layer, the proxy, the proxy, the proxy server, there's a lot of them. So you'd see that the decision you made didn't do anything. The government has already taken the court's decisions and sent them to international service providers, and they haven't implemented many of them. The point is, I mean, we're really responsible for all the party groups. Now, I'm looking at all of these sectors, e-commerce, access to information, everything, security, there's a concern, a doubt. With these restrictions, will they tag all of our traffic, all of our users? There is also concern. Now, of course, the government says that we especially want to thank him here for saying that sexual assaults against young children, personal rights, and similar rights. But your good intentions will not be enough alone because the right to freedom of thought, the right to individual rights, the right to freedom and freedom of communication, access to information, all of which are highly regulated by the Constitution and the law, and you can't go into all of these areas with this bag, you'll be in great trouble when you enter. I want to express it from here. It's been a long time since the law of protecting personal data has been passed. Can you explain to us why he didn't come out? So for four, five years, there's been no law on protecting this personal data. From the Health Department to the education institute, even the chiefs are handing out your residence information, friends. Leman asks, Mr. Minister, are you going to make a restraining order in four hours in this arrangement today? Are you going to say, "We enter or we don't enter?" Seriously, cartoons, Leman, Giggle, Penguin, they're all standing by, the headline will be them in the next issue. Let's cross this Internet censorship by hand.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0059par0182	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0060par0184	Dear sir.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0059par0185	We're counting, but people didn't lift their fingers.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0061par0186	There's more of us.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0062par0187	Yes, we are the majority, the opposition is the majority.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0059par0188	I'm not saying anything. Don't be so hard on me. Now, those who don't accept it, I'll say it. 47 people... All those in favor... this side's 60, it's not accepted. All the lawyers, those who know the Civil Code know that two of our friends count, so I said the numbers just in case. Insecurities are extreme. Yes, now I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 85 of Law Bill 524 be changed as follows. Reşat Right (Tokat) and his friends The first joke (j) of Article 2 of the Law (j) was changed in 85-4/5/2007 and added to the end of the joke in the following way. "j) Traffic information: values such as URLs, POST/GET packet headers, time, time, time, type of service, amount of data and connect points, including URLs, POST/GET packet headers, which contain information on all kinds of access to the Internet environment." "n) Unity: Access Providers Association, o) Blocking access from domain: blocking access from domain, blocking access from IP address, blocking access to content (URL) The release of content from the broadcast: the removal of content from the servers or from the hosted content by content or from accessing the content from the IPs from the Turkish Republic p) URL address: full Internet address of relevant content on the Internet R) Warning Method: the method of reporting to the locator if no results can be achieved within 72 hours, to the content provider in order to be removed from the publication of the content by people claiming that their rights were violated due to the publication content of the Internet environment," he said. Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0063par0203	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0059par0204	Government? We don't agree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0064par0206	Sir, which government? There are 2 governments there.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0059par0207	Mr. Right, please come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0064par0208	There's the Deputy Prime Minister. Parallel, sir? They could be controlling each other.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0059par0209	Mr. Vural, you know I can't comment here. No one's gonna ask me any questions.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0064par0210	We don't know who's parallel, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0059par0211	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0065par0212	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 85 of the Law Bill 524. I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my speech, I salute the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our Istanbul MP, Engin Alan, who has been unjustly arrested in Sincan. One day there will be no injustice, no law, no treason, and Engin Alan will come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and participate in the work. Respected lawmakers, with our motion, we aim to better use of the Internet, to have an uncensored Internet, and I hope you'll accept it. Today, social events and reactions to them have now been carried out by IT tools. There are over 10 billion websites in the world, and the number of users in our country has exceeded 45 million. With these figures, Turkey is ranked sixth in the world, first in Europe. In what is called social media, it appears that people communicate with one another and that communication leads people into different directions -- good or bad. In recent years, in the Middle East countries, information has played a huge role in social events that have developed with more demand for democracy. In our country, it has also recently begun with environmental precision, and then the political power has played a huge role in social information with the pressures of the AKP's government, with the demand for more democracy. Today, there is corruption, injustice, bribery, favourability in our country. These are also published on the Internet, and there are some very, very, very large claims that go on to many places about them that need to be answered. Thousands of law enforcement officers who have conducted the investigation have been unfairly relieved of their duties, transferred, banished. In addition, prosecutors, judges' duties and positions are being replaced, victims are being experienced. At the end of illegal appointments, people think that some very important issues are being covered up. In particular, the pressure on the media in our country is now clear. In particular, we're all together, regretfully, following the work of non-responsive media creation, one of which, unfortunately, has happened yesterday, and the public has seen clearly how pressure has been put on the news. So, in our country, an empire of fear is being created. As a result, it is now considered and accepted by the public that this law of communication is being made to conceal certain things. So, it's said: let's put pressure on social media as well as on writing and visual media, and as a result of this pressure, some publications should not be published there, some things shouldn't be done. These aren't true, lawmakers. If there is injustice, unlawfulness, error, bribery, it must be questioned, and it must be paid in full. If it's not given today, is there something about not being given tomorrow? No, tomorrow it will be answered for, and I say those who are responsible will have their answer in this world and in the next, or they will have their punishment, precious MPs. Also, the Internet, of course, is a very important resource, a good source of communication, a source of information when used beautifully. However, if it is not well used, especially in our young ones, our children can also move rapidly towards extreme internet addiction. Therefore, Internet use needs to be considered in a very serious sense about its systems, its laws, its sanctions, or some of its issues. Look, this law that's being passed is a very important law. With this law, perhaps an opportunity is being missed. See, a very important commission has recently been established in our online Parliament. That commission has worked for about four months, and a very important data has been presented from Internet security to Internet use, to Internet dependency, including about 1,500 pages, and the last 200 pages covering the report on it. But interestingly enough, when we compare this law with that law when it's being passed, there seems to be a law made about censorship that has never been used or any of the research done in those matters, just for a specific purpose, for a purpose, for a purpose, for a purpose. We don't think that's true. I mean, how long will you keep what, or what, or how long will you be able to protect it? In the end, the truth is that the sun will never be rolled up with clay, and the truth will come out, and I salute the great assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0066par0223	Thank you, Mr. Right. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Rejected motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 524 Orders Numbered Bill 85. Law number 5651 in Article Two. We propose that the clause (n) be removed from the article text, (o) and (o) jokes be changed in the following way. o) Disarming access: ▪ Obstructing access to URL (also) that contains only illegal content, D) Expulsion of content is a statement of removal of content by content providers. Haydar Akar and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0067par0233	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0066par0234	Government? We don't agree. Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0068par0238	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're still trying to discuss a bag of law and a technical law embedded in it. Why is that technical law? The Internet is a law on IT. We've buried and tried to pass a law in a bag that's not everyone's close to concepts, that's not really known what its content is, but is well known for what it's meant to be done. Now, the restrictions on the Internet were with Law 5651, which was first introduced in Turkey in 2007. This law has been reviewed by the European Court of Human Rights, and Turkey has been warned that this law violates human rights and freedom of information. Again, despite this warning, new steps are being taken to censor more and prevent people from accessing information by bringing in a bag of substances with this law. Today, Telecommunication Communications President is able to shut down thousands of sites without authorization. We see many examples of this these days, and we see together that some of the addresses on Twitter are blocked and disappeared as they are published, and they can't be reached. If this bill becomes legal, we'll go down in history as the 4th country that banned the Internet after Iran, China, Malaysia. I'm calling it a restraining order because we're giving the president of the TİB a power that is not in the President's hands. That means the Internet is banned. It's not just a ban, but the same provisions given to the MIT are given to the president of the TİB, the people who serve in the TİB, and their crimes are protected by law. So when we give you instructions, you can do anything. Let's see, why do you feel the need to pass this law? Yes, why did you need to remove two things so well that you blacked out the visual media and the written press so well? As we have seen since last night, you've blacked out all the rights to receive information with the press and TVs, which you've also led the public institutions and organizations to follow. And you've prevented people from getting the right news. All that was left was social media. What was that social media? It was Facebook, Twitter, and different communication channels, but you couldn't stop it. We saw on the trip that you could not afford. And where did we see it? We saw him on December 17th, guys. Despite all the efforts you've made from December 17th to today, you haven't been able to judge them against the 5651. And they continue today. Don't think that if we break this law, we'll rule it out, and we'll prevent it from being published. Know that something published on the Internet for 5 seconds cannot be prevented from being published or learned. You won't be able to get through, so take off whatever you can. Now, I just want to say that you're making everyone look guilty. Even computers in your home can become servers, and if you're an amateur web designer, the computer in your home can be a provider; by this law, you will be imprisoned, and by this law you will be fined. Now, dear friends, when we did something -- we said technical -- who did they consult on about what technique? They didn't consult anyone, they sat down, -- my friend just told me -- the Internet Commission has been established, the problems in Turkey have been identified, a thousand-page report has been filed, and they didn't even need to read this report. Why would they? That's not the problem. You know what the problem is, guys? Bilal saves the boy. (HPP clapping in rows) Saving Bilal boy's father, preventing people from being watched, learning. On December 17th, Turkey's biggest heist is being committed, but no one's talking about this robbery. What are they talking about? It's a conspiracy. What are they talking about? They're talking about the gang. Yeah, wasn't this gang your partner? You didn't partner up? What did you say? You call it the will of the people. Isn't that the HSYK Act of the people's will you brought to the vote? But even for one day, you didn't mention any of this. Well, technically, there's a lot to tell, but time is of the essence. What I'm trying to say is, you're not going to be able to black out this corruption. There's no way you can black out.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0069par0249	Look in the mirror, in the mirror!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0068par0250	History will refer to you as the lawmakers who blacked out these corruptions.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0069par0251	Look at you!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0068par0252	That's why I know you guys don't want it, and I know you don't.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0070par0253	This nation knows exactly what period of corruption has been committed.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0068par0254	I'm saying don't let that happen. I want everyone to have the freedom to be informed and share whatever they want. I give you all my regards, my love. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0071par0257	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 86. I'll have it read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 524 Orders Numbered Bill 86. Number 3 of the number 5651 law in the second article. "The information can be made through the registered e-mail address (kep), which they have submitted to the presidency for notification of corporate persons," the article states, "to those who conduct their activities within this Law from abroad or abroad." However, court decisions and administrative decision notifications are made within the framework of the legislation under which they are subject." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Muharrem İlk Erdal Aksunger Ramis Topal Haluk Eyidoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 86th Amendment of the current 524th row. We propose and supply that the pearl clause be replaced in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı Seyfettin Yılmaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan "The following joke is added to Article 3 of the Law 86-5651. ==References======External links======References=======External links=====References=======External links=====External links=== This statement is made with technical measures that guarantee the recipient to receive the message correctly and fully." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 86 of the current law bill 524 be removed from the text of the law. Altan Tan İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Hasip Kaplan Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0072par0286	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0071par0287	Government? We don't agree, sir. Mr. Tan, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0073par0291	Mr. President, members of parliament, we're going to increase freedoms in this House, set our democracy in full place, implement the European Union criteria, establish them in its proper place, and, unfortunately, we're going a little further back every day. So, unfortunately, we have the same problem with the law, which is brought to us in a rush into a bag about this Internet and communication. Of course, dear friends, this has come to a point where architecture, construction, and so many other issues have the expression "electronic" and add up. So, you come first, you do something without a plan project, and because of the obligations, there's another room, another bathroom, another ladder, another flight of stairs, and then a freak happens after a while. This is what has become of Turkey's democracy. A proper new constitution that meets the needs of the entire community, and the laws of harmony with this new constitution, where every time something is needed, every time something is attempted to be done, a freak appears, just like this freak building called the new service building, which is being prepared inside the Capitol campus for parliamentarians. Dear friends, we're getting nowhere here. First, we ask the power why you feel the need to rush this law into this bag and bring it, why, why? That's question number one. Just when the corruption, the tapes, the images have been released, what are you in a hurry to hide? Please answer me that first. There's news in the press, it's said that, here, sir, $630 million was released to certain contractors for the purchase of a newspaper. E, let's ban it. Our Kurdish contractor says, "OK, brother, you let me go and you didn't make me a partner in the Istanbul tender, so make me a partner, and I'll give you that much." Well, you're banning him, too. Another report is coming out: 99 million 999,990 -- and I don't understand why it goes like this, 9, 9, 9 -- a round account of $100 million. You say, "Who put him to bed, why did he put him to bed, what reason did he put him to bed? " Well, let's ban these as well. So, guys, where do we go from here? Here, a fellow speaker has just said that if we get to the point where Malaysia, China, Iran, there's nothing to come out of here, dear friends, there's nothing to come out of here. Of course, there will be proper laws, of course, there are certain practices of the world about this communication, about the Internet, about these media organizations, but if you once put an entire media -- in the Egyptian period of Cemal Abdul Nasir -- there was a semi-official Al-Ahram newspaper -- all the Internet, if you bring all the newspapers to the semi-official Al-Ahram level, it has a reputation for -- there was a sculpture, and there was a truck of Egyptian writers -- and if you put it on top of them, there would be no good for you. So we say, long and long, this is right, this is wrong, this is wrong, this is not the way, this is not the way, this is what we say, don't do this. And I'll tell you one thing: famous, you know, a woman, her child, at night, does her little abscess in her pants, can't hold her urine, goes to a amulet, makes a charmer do it to find a cure. And then he turns around, and the next day he's screaming, and he's going back to the amulet. He says, "What's wrong, ma'am?" Aman, I'm in trouble, cancel this old amulet, I don't want anything else. What happened? He says: After you wrote this amulet, the boy also began to make his great abscess. I mean, at least get these things back to the way they were, and we'll see when we can make a proper constitution. It is not a way for him; it is a profit for you and for us when you return. Yes, my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0074par0298	Thank you, Mr. Tan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that Article 86 of Law Bill 524 be changed as follows. Reşat Right (Tokat) and his friends "The following joke is added to Article 3 of the Law 86-5651. "ίng 3) You can report the activities of this Law to those who operate from abroad or abroad through their websites via communication tools, domain names, IP address and other communication tools. This statement is made with technical measures that guarantee the recipient to receive the message correctly and fully." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0075par0307	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0074par0308	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0076par0312	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 86 of the Law Bill 524. I salute the High Council. Sure, we're negotiating a bag of law. As many things have been thrown into this bag of legislation, a very important subject of our country has been thrown out. This law on Internet use would have been more accurate to discuss, especially the views of the enforcers and then legalize it before it was discussed in the commissions of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, so it was a historic opportunity. As I've just said, very importantly, the Internet Commission has done studies, creating a report around 1,500 pages. If this report had been properly examined and the bag had been injected into the inside of the law, I imagine it would have been better, and many issues would have been resolved with it. But it's also a fact that we've encountered censorship along with these substances. Of course, there are clearly different motives for the adoption of this law. A very important law involving 76 million must have a purpose. And that's the goal, as we all know, there's no need to hide it now, there's a bribery incident in our country, there's a corruption incident, there's a misdemeanor incident, there's an unfair money-making incident, there's a need to be covered up. See, right now, some of the televisions are being broadcast side by side, some of them are being controlled, they're especially under a lot of pressure, so sometimes the literature gets interrupted, sometimes it's removed while it's being published, and the subtitles are completely erased; such a strange and bizarre situation is faced. So, besides that, now we're talking about bringing in a law on social media, about social media control. Honourable MPs, that's not true. There's a bleeding wound in society right now. Society wants bribes, corruption to be enlightened, people's voices to be heard. So the empire of fear must be torn apart. In the end, people clearly need to know everything, to see everything. What if we don't do this? If you don't do that, there will be serious public injuries, and these wounds will grow, and in society and in public, those decompositions will go away. That's why we expect everyone to come to their senses, and then we expect the right things to come out in the end. Respectable lawmakers, look, we could put some issues in this law, especially about children -- very seriously, about Internet use. Currently, about 60 percent and 65 percent of the children who go home from our schools begin their work with games as they arrive at their homes, particularly in computer games. Most of the games are sexual games, mostly horror games. So, we're dealing with games that prevent the child from growing up and growing up, keeping the child from studying. However, when you put them into this law, when you make this law, you know, like Yandex, isn't it right for a system like Google to be introduced, or a search engine to be created, or a search engine to do work on it, or a Turkish search engine to be introduced? So it's a search engine controlled by the state of the Republic of Turkey. Of course, on the other hand, we call our children. See, right now, all of those games that children watch are out-source games that don't fit Turkish morality, family structure. So, if you're going to put a cartoon in, it should be educational, it should be entertaining, it should be informative; it should be Turkish structure, Turkish tradition, Turkish history. They need to be identified, put into place. So the children's age-appropriate environments and search engines must be created, and they must be presented to children in public forum format with the simplest and most understandable visual elements. Of course, there are important tasks for the Ministry of Family Affairs, and the Ministry of National Education has important tasks. Since children are everything to us, they have to do their jobs, but interestingly, right now the Ministry of National Education, unfortunately, is not doing its job, just busy handing out computers and tablets to children in schools. It is not considered that some damage to the health of those children was done by the rays spread by the scattered tablets. I'm afraid we can't determine what 60 computers suddenly opened, and maybe hundreds of computers opened up at school, and what the rays are doing to that human body, what they're doing to our children's development. I believe that the good laws that cover all of this say they're put into the bag of laws, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0077par0325	Thank you, Mr. Right. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 524 Orders Numbered Bill 86. Number 3 of the number 5651 law in the second article. "The information can be made through the registered e-mail address (kep), which they have submitted to the presidency for notification of corporate persons," the article states, "to those who conduct their activities within this Law from abroad or abroad." However, court decisions and administrative decision notifications are made within the framework of the legislation under which they are subject." Erdal Aksunger (Izmir) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0078par0332	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0077par0333	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Oran, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0079par0337	Mr. President, Congressmans, basically, what we do is what we always do. So we're talking here, we're talking here, but the decisions have already been made, the decisions have been voted on, and then the decisions will be passed, and the decisions will be made again, despite the public, we'll be making decisions against the nation. Now, there's executive representatives here, there's legislators, there's representatives of bureaucracy, but there's one thing missing: there's no people here. So when these decisions are made, when these decisions are written, when these decisions are made, the public's opinion is not taken. Now, we're talking about a field called social media where there are about 36 million active users and many of them are young. There are many sites around here, there are news sites, there are hundreds of thousands of employees, there are no serious exchanges with professional organisations, we make decisions without consulting them, without talking to them, even by the middle of the night -- we end those decisions at 2:00 p.m. last night. Now, that's the wrong way to live, and that's when, unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party brought in this bag of laws, making the process that should be an exception continuous, and every law that's been asked to be kidnapped, asked to be covered, comes in the bag of law. There are two reasons: once, like this, one evening is brought to an end, forced to spend, and, of course, people are being kidnapped, working late at night, and they're being kidnapped from the public. This form of legislation violates the basic principles of law and democratic traditions. As I just said, we've made the exception the rule. Now, I've just said, are we working for the greater good? Are we making this decision on behalf of the people, on behalf of the people, to make life easier, to make it easier, to get people to use the Internet more freely, or to hide things, to cover things up, or to control some of the documents, information that will come out in the future? Let's be frank, so let's not fool anyone here, and let's not fool ourselves. All we did was... my friends just told me that the Justice and Development Party MPs, the executive body, saw social media in the Gezi events, saw his freedom, saw his space, then the corruption operation on December 17th, closed down on him, and the documents never came out again. The bottom line is, with the Justice and Development Party in Turkey, unfortunately, democracy is moving forward, democracy is moving towards an authoritarian regime, and as long as we look at it, this law has very serious contradictions with fundamental rights and freedoms. Just like freedom of the press, like freedom to hold a meeting, it doesn't fit in the basic rights and freedoms. The other day, with all this going on, I don't go into the details of things. Mr. Arinc, an experienced politician, said two things this week -- and he said: "There is no censorship in the press, there is no censorship in the internet, the press is free." We all know now that the press is not free. All international reports say that the press is not free, that Turkey has become a prison, that it has become a large prison for arrested journalists. Again, the International Writers' Union on the Internet warned that if this law were passed, Turkey would be the world's most censored country, the press, the Internet. Now, in whose name, for what purpose, for what reason do we pass this law, I ask you all?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0080par0345	Thank you, Mr. Oran. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0081par0348	Sir, first, count those who refuse, their input output is different, they come according to the conjunctural.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0080par0349	There are three motions in Article 87: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 87 of Law Bill 524 be changed as follows. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Haluk Ayhan "The following joke has been added to Article 4 of the Law 87-5651. ==References==The content provider submits the information required to the presidency as part of the presidential duties given by these Laws and other Laws, and takes the measures stated by the presidency. He cannot demand any information from the presidential provider except the information set forth in this law." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 524 Orders Numbered Bill 87. Law number 5651 in Article Number Two. In its article, "the inclusion provider, under the scope of the presidential duties given by these laws and other laws, submits the information he demands to the presidency as requested and takes the measures declared by the presidency." "The content provider may request a court order to determine the nature of the information, the manner and the reason for the introduction of the information required in the cases of the request for confidential or sensitive information that may cause him to be charged or may be responsible in his own eyes." We provide and propose that it be changed in a manner. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Muharrem İlk Erdal Aksunger Hope Oran Haluk Eyidoğan Ramis Topal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 87 of the current law bill 524 be removed from the text of the bill. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Altan Tan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Erol Dora İdris Baluken Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0082par0371	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0080par0372	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Corporate, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0083par0376	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been arguing on the Internet for a long time, and now the government is bringing this arrangement to cover up everything that's going on in this state administration, where all charges against him, criticisms, public debates, and what the public calls a "to-do." Timing makes sense? Of course it makes sense, but its beginning, as it has just been highlighted here, dates back to June. The Internet, social media and sharing used heavily during the June protests left the government in a very difficult position. Now, on December 17th corruption investigations, and here it is last night, here it is, the founder of the Prime Minister's son, the foundation, and all the other foundations that have been mentioned in the name of all these corrupt, land tenders, rant sharings, now they are more talked about, more controversial in the public eyes. This one's wanted to be cut off, it's obvious. There's a fear of the people here, there's a public retreat, there's a public concealment. But what does it come for? As always, freedom of person, personal life, cataloging crime. But there's a weight on the rights and freedoms of 40 million users, and there's a block coming. Where's freedom, where's democracy? The public has the right to access information, the removal, the censorship. That, of course, is not acceptable. In democracies, there's a judicial mechanism, there's law and there's judicial control, no matter how much criticism is being criticised in liberal regimes. They're being put aside here, and as they are, government bureaucrats, administrative mechanisms, decision-making, decision-making, enforcer. Look, we've been talking about bugs for days. The state is an insect republic. Bugs, wiretaps are gushing from everywhere. President, Prime Minister, 550 MPs -- not only their work, but their private lives -- there are no rests in this listening coil, but when it comes and it's up to them, I mean, when it's up to the head of the executive, this time the voices come out, and they want to be cut off, so we're going to limit the hearings. When it's looked at, here's our congressman, who was just speaking here, who put a question motion on his website, and the President of Communications has the right to intervene even there. Because order, this kind of dark order, this kind of decay, and Mr. Secretary has to apologize. Now, who has security in the future? No one is safe, and this government has no credibility. The aftershocks, the aftershocks, the aftershocks. So, where is the public, behind all this fuss, all this fuss, where are the people? The public is not guilty here, but there is a government that doesn't trust the public. It's a government that wants to bring censorship to the Internet, but it's the government's word for it. People's representation, nation's will, nation's rights, respect for the law of the nation. A political will, political sovereignty, which has replaced the nation's representatives, and says, "We will remove these salts." He wants to do whatever he wants with all these parliamentary MPs. Therefore, the MPs shouldn't allow it. People's will... Well, aren't you from these crates, the crates that the Prime Minister often showed you? But when the conflict of interest arises, when the conflict of interest and interest pits these rulers against each other, then the nation's will and the chest are easily thrown aside. So it's clear politics, clean politics. Can you imagine if there was a clean policy in a phrase called, "We're going to dive into their hearts, we're going to dig out their dens"? Now, everyone has a fear of the underbelly, towards the elections, what interests, what dirty sheets will be spilled on that social media, in a hurry to avoid them, but this effort is futile. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The public will come through all of this, and their efforts to buy the media, and their efforts to bring businessmen into action will not benefit. Look, the journalists who spoke in favour of the Prime Minister yesterday, the people who said,,, komplo, are returning today because it was not a conspiracy. And these turns won't help anymore. We call it clean politics, politics for the public, a democratic future. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0084par0391	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 524 Orders Numbered Bill 87. Law number 5651 in Article Number Two. The content provider in the Article shall submit the information he demands to the presidency in accordance with the nature of its duties given by this Law and other laws; and shall take the measures referred to by the presidency after his statement. (We can ask for a court order to change the nature of the information, the manner and the reason for the use of it.) Erdal Aksunger (Izmir) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0085par0398	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0084par0399	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Oran, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0086par0403	Thank you. Now, in Article 86, when you look at it, we have just passed a law against the Law of Declaration, which is contrary to the Law of Declaration. We've also passed a law against legal security and against international standards, and you've just approved it. The current law is the most dangerous of these laws related to the Internet, on the basis of the 87th Law. In a sense, it is now a proposal that translates the Internet into the portal of the Prime Minister in Turkey. So it's an offer that takes websites from the judiciary and connects them completely to the executive body or connects them to the bureaucracy of the executive body, and in four hours, it'll be able to block and remove any website it wants. The privacy of private life will no longer exist. Internet traffic and content must be stored for two years in a sense, so that whatever you type on Facebook or on any website, bureaucracy can see it, see it, see it instantly, record it, plug it, so that it can have everything about you there, put it in front of you at the right time. With the Union of Access Providers established, actually, the access censorship unit will also be established. And because of the obligations given to this unit, the cost of accessors will increase. In particular, for young people to hear: With this law, power will make the Internet more expensive, make it much more expensive. The task of collecting specific information for content providers cannot be given, it is contrary to the Constitution. Bottom line, I don't know, you know? It's the kind of thing that actually happened to him in the past that gave you the order to vote on these laws today. If you remember, Mr. Erdogan banned Mr. Prime Minister YouTube, and then what did he say: "You're going to enter YouTube on the run, I'm going in, you're going in." Now, again, I invite you to reason and reason. In order for such laws to benefit the public, to benefit the nation, we need common intelligence, participation, pluralism. Right now, none of the Internet users find it right to pass the law, and they don't find it right in the world. I'm sure when you guys get out of here -- we started meeting today -- when you go home, or when you open your phones, your kids, young people, because you passed this law, they're going to spam you for that law. Such bans have essentially never been able to conceal any truth, and such bans have never been able to conceal any corruption in the past, to cover up any corruption, to limit any freedom. We often see these kinds of bans in times of coup, which are now essentially a civilian coup, the footsteps of this; freedom of the press, freedom of the Internet, freedom of the assembly, freedom of the march. Look, again, he has prepared a judicial indictment in Ankara, with 118 components in the Gezi events, including 118 components from the medical examiner's office to the Istanbul Bar -- under the unlawful order to conduct it again. What were their crimes? Protecting the green, not having a mall in the square, taking care of the parks. There's no sense of democracy like that, and history will surely question its enforcers. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0087par0413	Thank you, Mr. Oran. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 87 of Law Bill 524 be changed as follows. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends "The following joke has been added to Article 4 of the Law 87-5651. ==References==The content provider submits the information required to the presidency as part of the presidential duties given by these Laws and other Laws, and takes the measures stated by the presidency. He cannot demand any information from the presidential provider except the information set forth in this law." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0088par0422	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0087par0423	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0089par0424	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0087par0425	Mr Varlı, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0090par0427	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This is a clause in the bag law that has to do with blocking access to the Internet again. Your problem with the Internet began with the first, with travel events, and then with the operation of December 17th. You didn't care at all when the National Movement Party's headquarters was being watched in the past, when the images of the leadership of the Nationalist Movement Party were being broadcast, and you didn't care when the footage about Mr. Baykal was being published, but when it came to you, when the news came out on the Internet, you started to block access when you couldn't figure out what was going to come out tomorrow, what was going to happen, and what was going to happen on the Internet. I mean, when it comes to other people, it's good, it's good, and when it comes to you, it's bad, it can be prevented. For that reason, you bring such restrictions on the Internet, such bans. I mean, there are new documents every day, new images every day, new tapes every day, related to the corruption and bribery operation that took place on December 17th. Your main purpose, your main goal, is to prevent it. But, once it's settled on the conscience of the people, it's on the conscience of the people, people know it, and they've made up their minds about it. So, as much as you say "complo," the public realizes that corruption, bribery, is not a victim, even if you say, "Don't change the government about this." And I'm hoping he'll do the right thing on March 30th. Again, you've always talked about democracy. You've always blocked democracy by saying democracy, forward democracy, forward democracy, but always saying democracy; you've always tried to stop what's in democracy. Now, you took a lot of newspapers, a lot of TVs, unfairly, and you took a loan from the People's Bank, sir, and you forced some of them to pay for it, and you made friends with a lot of newspapers and televisions, and some of them you supported. Every day your ministers, sir, your vice presidents, the prime minister, on television screens, you couldn't stand the fact that opposition was so limited. Here, Mr. Prime Minister, calling the director of Haberturk TV there, sir, to tell us how impatient you are, Mr. President, to block the subtitles of the State Garden Bey. Democracy means endurance; democracy means that everyone can speak freely, that everyone's news is being delivered to the public in the right way, but you're doing everything you can to prevent even the right ones from reaching out to the public. This is not an advanced democracy. It's to stop democracy at all costs, but to lower the voice of those who add color to democracy at the very least. You've been broadcasting in Parliament as long as Parliament was working in the Parliament, and you've even restricted the literature here to prevent lawmakers from meeting citizens in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. You have a sense of limiting freedoms, of blocking democracy, and unless you change that logic, it doesn't suit you to talk about democracy, dear friends. That's why you have to live by believing in democracy. So, whatever prosecutors are involved in a corruption and bribery operation, you've moved them all if there are police officers and police chiefs involved in this operation. If it's a conspiracy, if it's this thing, why are you so scared? Why are you so scared? You move prosecutors, you move police commissioners. Let them go, let them be cleared, but they're not, so you've got fear and anxiety and hesitation, and you're in the way. You've appointed prosecutors, you've replaced them, you've appointed cops, you've replaced them, you've removed the Adana County Gendarme Regiment Commander, you've removed the prosecutors there. So it's not possible to talk about democracy in this country. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0091par0437	Thank you. The motion...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0092par0439	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0091par0440	You're in the system. I'll ask why, Mr. Aslanoglu. I'll put the motion to a vote. You're in the system, I'll ask you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0093par0444	Mr. President, I want a minute's promise based on 60.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0091par0445	I promised him for a minute.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0093par0446	Mr. Minister, the president of the TİB is here, the president of the BTK is here, Mr. Secretary is not, but the Undersecretary is here. We signed this on international cybercrimes, but it didn't come into effect because it wasn't passed through the House. From this point of view, make all the laws you want, and if you don't get the deal on cybercrimes out of Congress, it doesn't mean anything. So bring behind this law the agreement on cybercrimes so that it means nothing, or this law means nothing. That's what I want to say.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0091par0447	There are three motions in Article 88, which I read in order: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 3rd Article 88 of the current law bill 524 rows. We offer and propose that the joke be removed from the bill. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Altan Tan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 88 of Law Bill 524 be changed as follows. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı Seyfettin Yılmaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan "The second joke of Article 88-5651 of the Law has been changed as follows, adding the third, fourth, fifth and sixth jokes below to come after the second joke. The locator is obliged to remove its legal content if it is informed of the 8th and 9th Articles of this Law.' ==References==The location provider is obliged to keep traffic information on his services for a period of no more than three months, no more than six months, and to ensure the accuracy, integrity, and secrecy of these information. The presidency can't hide the information that's been delivered to him for more than a week. At the end of that time, the information will be deleted unreturned by the presidency. The process of deleting data from the presidential and presidential provider is determined by regulations. (4) Location providers can be categorized and differentiated by their rights and obligations according to the nature of their work within the rules and procedures to be established. (5) The presidential provider is obliged to submit the information requested by the President to the presidency as requested and to take the measures reported by the presidency. These measures do not include the use of technologies that violate citizens' privacy. (6) An administrative fine will be fined by the presidency to a hundred thousand Turkish liras on the basis of a location provider who does not make a residential notification or does not fulfill its obligations in this Law." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 524th Amendment in the 88th Article of the Common Numbered Bill of Laws. We propose and propose that the second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth jokes of the substance be changed in the following way. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Ramis Topal Aytuğ Atcı Erdal Aksunger Muharrem İlk Hasan Ören 2) If the location provider exists in the following conditions, there is no legal or criminal responsibility for the data stored at the request of the user: (a) The locator has no actual knowledge that data is illegal; or (b) The ground provider acted with urgency to block access to the data if the third person on the data agreed with the claim that it was illegal. The sentence above is the ground provider's work, the 8th law. And nine. It does not meet its obligations in its Articles. 3) 2. According to the joke, the fact that the Earth Provider is actually informed of illegal data is provided by reporting the following information: - The date of the report, - I.D.'s on the tip, including the TC ID number. - Explanating information on the alleged illegal data and URL address on the locator platform, - Reasons that justify blocking access to relevant content, information about it, legal and material grounds, including the laws on which it is based, and - An explanation of why the informant had not submitted an application or application to the Content Provider in order to remove the contents. 4) The ground provider is obliged to store traffic information on child abuse services for a limited period of time and to ensure the integrity, integrity and secrecy of these information. 5) Location providers can be categorized and differentiated by their rights and obligations according to the nature of their work, in accordance with regulations and procedures. In order to be classified, the regulation will form a board of at least twenty people, including technical, legal and commercial representatives and academics, and the rating will be carried out in accordance with the recommendations of this board. 6) The presidential provider is obliged to submit the information requested by the President to the presidency as requested and to take the measures reported by the presidency. The locator can't give out information that doesn't belong to him without a court order. The locator may request a court order to determine the nature of the information, the manner and the use of the information required in the event of the request of classified or sensitive information, which may cause him to be indicted or in a way that may lead to responsibility in his own eyes. "As a company based in Turkey or with its servers installed in Turkey, there will be administrative fines issued by the presidency to 50,000 Turkish liras on the ground that does not report or fulfil its obligations in this Law." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0094par0491	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0091par0492	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0095par0493	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0091par0494	Mr. Kören, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0096par0495	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party in Article 88. My respects to all of you. Your path to democracy, I'm guessing, leads to dictatorship. Adolf Hitler, who won the elections in Germany, spoke in front of parliament, and the Prime Minister's voice began to adapt and appear in harmony. What did Adolf Hitler say? I am now the judge of Germany. What did the Prime Minister say about Ergenekon cases? And he said, "I'm the prosecutor of these cases. You're going to end your so-called democracy in the name of democracy with a sense of quality, advanced democracy with dictatorship." What obstacle are you trying to remove now? It's about communication, it's about the Internet. So, if you're really sincere, if it's necessary to test your sincerity about this, why didn't you show that sensitivity when you were thinking about bringing many of Turkey's valued politicians to the end of politics with the montage tapes before 2011? Why didn't you make an arrangement about it in telecommunications? But then it didn't work out for you, so you used it, you talked about it. In fact, the Prime Minister went up to the rally grounds, and he did propaganda about it that didn't apply to our customs and customs. Why do you feel the need to change now? They're not nice, they're not nice. Regarding what was released yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister said last week: "This tape was released by the organization, by the community, by the community." Well, if that's the case, then why hasn't Mr. Home Secretary launched an investigation so far? Seriously, if there's something wrong with these tapes of the congregation that you were best friends with yesterday, the ones you didn't talk to, why didn't you do what you needed to do until today? Because it didn't work out for you. Why do you do it now? You're putting a general manager in charge of communications appointed by the government. My dear friends, I say it every time I come out. This road ends in darkness. Face the opposition. These laws you have passed today, these laws you have passed, will judge you tomorrow. Then you'll say, "Why did we take them off?" Why did we make such a mistake? We, as opposition, are trying to prevent you from getting into that error. You can understand differently, you can misunderstand, but please take care of this. Tomorrow he will appoint a party to replace the one you appointed. That appointed man will judge you, and when he judges you, you will all shout. Look what you've done now. What did you say on February 28th? Why are you so restless? It's the chips. So you didn't agree to be tagged, and you said: "Will there be receipts in a democratic country?" That's right, in a democratic country? Sunni, Alevi, Çerkek, Kurd, parishioner, leftist, rightist, nothing should happen. Mr. Home Secretary, you're not here politically, you're here on assignment, it's in our Constitution, it's true. In 15 days, given what criteria, you've taken 67,000 police officers, replaced them? It's based on really tagging... so fast, so fast, these cops, these police commissioners, they had to be tagged. Did you really tag it? So we were burned from February 28th, but now it's our turn to say, "It's our turn." You actually did a tag and moved 67,000 people from police chief to police in 15 days. It wasn't enough, how did you do it in court, why did you do it? You've found out who's in what congregation, who's in what class, that you've replaced hundreds of prosecutors, hundreds of judges? My dear friends, this is exactly what you complained about yesterday. You know, there's something very important -- I'll read the short -- the laws of Hammurabi. In one book, Hammurabi the king of Babylon, the first lawmaker, takes his throne... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I've been deceived by these moments.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0097par0504	That's wrong. What do I do?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0096par0505	But, come on, I'm just keeping my mouth shut looking over there. You can't let me make a mistake over there because of a mistake you made on the monitor. I have my eye on both here and there. You tell me what to do.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0097par0506	We can't do anything. I'm so sorry.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0096par0507	Well, let me just read this last one, then.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0097par0508	That's not possible. Thank you very much, thank you. Bow and release.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0098par0510	The motion is too much Mr. Hasan, too much motion.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0099par0511	You're right.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0097par0512	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 88 of Law Bill 524 be changed as follows. Necati Özensoy (Bursa) and his friends "The second joke of Article 88-5651 of the Law has been changed as follows, adding the third, fourth, fifth and sixth jokes below to come after the second joke. The locator is obliged to remove its legal content if it is informed of the 8th and 9th Articles of this Law.' ==References==The location provider is obliged to keep traffic information on his services for a period of no more than three months, no more than six months, and to ensure the accuracy, integrity, and secrecy of these information. The presidency can't hide the information that's been delivered to him for more than a week. At the end of that time, the information will be deleted unreturned by the presidency. The process of deleting data from the presidential and presidential provider is determined by regulations. (4) Location providers can be categorized and differentiated by their rights and obligations according to the nature of their work within the rules and procedures to be established. (5) The presidential provider is obliged to submit the information requested by the President to the presidency as requested and to take the measures reported by the presidency. These measures do not include the use of technologies that violate citizens' privacy. (6) An administrative fine will be fined by the presidency to a hundred thousand Turkish liras on the basis of a location provider who does not make a residential notification or does not fulfill its obligations in this Law." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0100par0524	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0097par0525	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0101par0526	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0097par0527	Mr. Özensoy, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0102par0529	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have received your word on our motion. I salute you all. The bag shows the quality of the laws made. Of course, since we've made too many bags of legislation in this particular period, I think the laws made during this period are not very good either. And the reason for that, of course, is that we're not looking for specific or general laws, but we're trying to save the day with these bags of laws, if they're made in a way that doesn't touch us today, but they touch others, or they touch others, but they touch other people in a way that doesn't matter. And this, as you say, is a law that, at times, when we offer proposals for the agenda of research proposals, you run the House in vain here. You say, but in those days, we're always expressing the problems of citizens, but that's a law that we make, apart from the problems of a single citizen, specifically, in order to cover matters that might be a problem for you. Now, let's give an example of this, and our friends gave it to us. As you all know, I remember very well the position of Justice and Development Party officials and Mr. Prime Minister in the face of the vile attacks and immoral attacks on the National Movement Party over the Internet before the 2011 elections. On that day, he did not condemn what was being done, or what was being done on the Internet, or what was being offered, sir, or what was being watched, but on the contrary, Mr. Prime Minister came out at the rallies. See, the MHP people are like this, and the MHP executives are like that, and they've just said something that I'm not going to put in my mouth right now. But now, yesterday, especially Mr. Secretary, technology has developed so much that they can take my head off and replace it. There's talk of traps and so on and so forth. Now, you didn't condemn one of those vile attacks on the National Movement Party yesterday -- into the bedrooms -- with one sentence of what those scoundrels did, now, about these things, when they started to touch you, you began to develop measures. Look, I'd like to say something to the Minister from here to the new Minister. Even though he is the new Minister, in this period of time, our brother Genghis Akyıldıl, who was a martyr, immediately followed me -- because he was with me, as well as Mr. President -- and here, about them -- people have been caught, investigations are being made, but even though we have given the footage of those intelligence cars in 2011, despite the fact that we have given those officers who are being paid by credit cards, who have phone numbers and more than 8,000 phone numbers in one person, who have been watching, listening from the CCTV footage in the headquarters, but despite the fact that we have given them footage of those intelligence cars -- tell me that they are not relevant to who are being paid by credit cards, who are being paid by whom they are being paid by their credit cards, phone numbers, and that there are more than 8,000 phone numbers in one person. Now, Mr. Secretary -- he's just arrived; I've seen his good intentions, as I've stated -- please, open these files again while you're on the agenda; at least in order to make amends for the past, for these mistakes, I'd like to point out from here who's been making these despicable attacks, who's taking these vile images, who's taking them into account. More, more, more talks have been made:... the wife of innocence... yesterday, there was an investigation into any one of us... in the 2007 elections, the Prime Minister said three of them at the rally. At that time, he named us after the thief, but then there was no purity, and now the purity of the law has begun. Here, wait a minute! My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0103par0539	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who refuse... are not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 3rd Article 88 of the current law bill 524 rows. We offer and propose that the joke be removed from the bill. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0104par0546	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0103par0547	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0105par0548	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0103par0549	Mr. Ertugrul Furci... Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0106par0551	Mr. President, dear friends, we're talking a little, in fact, in vain here because we're trying to prove antidemocratic, authoritarian, contrary to international norms, all of this is actually a curse. So we know that, and so does the public, and so does the party that brought up this law, and so does the government's party. This law will be passed knowingly because, in fact, the Justice and Development Party's Joints think that until the election, until the presidential election -- perhaps the general elections will merge with it -- we will issue this law. These laws are valid until the Constitutional Court sees this law, until it is rejected by the President. So, even if he's going to come back eventually, we can control social media by continuing this pharaoh's stance, we can trap our opponents from here, we can intercept any broadcast that can be made against us, we can prevent any charges against the prosecutors, evidence or evidence that could provoke them. There is no other purpose to this law. This law is worthless, this law has nothing to defend. We have told you before, this law will put Turkey in line with the Internet bans around the world, freedom of expression and well-known states. But -- let's not get the wrong idea, we said that the other day -- Iran or China, these are no less important countries than Turkey. However, the states of these countries did not make a social contract with their people; they did not tell them that we guarantee your freedom of speech, your freedom of communication, they did not commit to such a commitment. So whether or not there are those bans is directly a matter between the people and the states of those countries. Turkey has such a contract between the state and the community. The European Convention on Human Rights, which was combined with the European Convention on Human Rights, is co-organised with the Universal Declaration of the United Nations, co-organised with all international agreements, and those who ruled Turkey should not even be able to adopt a law behind it now; they do. Thus, they align themselves with these authoritarian regimes, not Turkey. Now, the most critical issue here, outside the government of the public, us, is that, in fact, this law is imposed on major Internet service providers in Turkey, Vodafone, Turkcell, Turkcom. Will these great players consent to a merger that has nothing to do with trade, sectoral development, industry expertise? Are they going to turn in their clients' information to the government, or are they going to be their whistleblowers? This is the question of whether they will accept or not the executives of these companies who are talking car-to-car, as they are forced to protect the tribes in Kurdistan. Their necks will likely be tilted against the government, but the right of their clients to go elsewhere from them is thus taking away the law from them. So if we don't submit to this Internet protection law, neither the companies nor the people, we can leave the government alone with its own fate. Fearing the truth will not save the government from its outcome. The Justice and Development Party regime, the government, like all despot governments, will end up in the garbage of history. Bye, guys! If you're voting, good-bye to you with them!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0107par0556	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are now three motions in Article 89. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 524 Orders Numbered Bill 89. It's the 6th element of the unsub. Following the statement issued in the article's (d) joke, "returning the information the president requested to the presidency as requested and taking the measures declared by the presidency." "The accessor cannot provide information that is not his without the court's ruling. The access provider may request a court order to determine the nature of the information, the manner of the delivery and the reason for the use of its information, in the event of the request of classified or sensitive information, which may cause him to be charged or in his own eyes could be responsible." We offer and offer to change it into form. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Muharrem Iş Erdal Aksunger Moon Shot Ramis Topal Congressmans, since the two motions I'm going to now read are the same property, I'm going to process them together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 89 of the current 524 rows of legislation be removed from the bill. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Altan Tan The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı Seyfettin Yılmaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Commission, do you agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0108par0581	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0107par0582	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0109par0583	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0107par0584	Mr. Buldan, shall we start with you?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0110par0585	Mr. Erol will speak, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0107par0586	Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0111par0588	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Party of Peace and Democracy on Article 89 of the Law on Making Changes in Some Laws No. 524. I salute your high council. Obstruction of internet access in Turkey and the world and at the point of censorship in some countries has been an important agenda. The Internet is a fact that the planet we live on turns into a village at the point of communication and communication. Decisions to block access become an application that ignores the principle of personality of crime from time to time and causes problems against the user. Due to a small content, shutting down or blocking the entire website will cause much bigger problems. Dear lawmakers, when the proposal for amendments is examined, according to the amendments, the public will be able to shut down the website they want at any time, without a court order, so the fate of the Internet will be entirely in the hands of the government. Such as private life, a concept with different limits in journalism, which even the judiciary has been forced to develop standard measurements for years, is needed to justify the removal of news or visual material directly from a telecommunications Communication website. I mean, a government-appointed bureaucrat will be able to remove the information and visual material he wants in a vast area that has no limits to protecting other people's rights and freedoms, and without even knowing the website that broadcasts it. Another addition to the current 9th article, those who claim that the privacy of their private life has been violated in a context that the administration has not directly blocked, will be able to seek direct access to the presidency by applying directly to it. The head of Telecommunication Communication, the administration, will only look at the information on the information on which the applicationee is violating his rights, the address of the content, the information on which the rights have been violated in four hours at the latest; otherwise, TİB will report this request to the accessors' unit to be implemented, and access providers will meet this request in four hours at the latest. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, for example, those who claim that their privacy has been violated in a news report, will be able to remove the news by applying only to the Telecommunications Communication Presidency. Notice that this arrangement does not require a judicial audit decision, nor does it require a defence or opinion from the content provider, such as the news site. Thus, an arrangement is envisioned that the relevant news site can only be informed after it has been released from its content. Dear lawmakers, there have been numerous legal studies to deal with crimes on the Internet in the present day when the issue of illegal content and harmful content still cannot be exacted. The European Union Convention on Cyber Crimes provides a clear framework for this issue. In addition to child pornography, hate crimes, terrorism propaganda, gambling, prostitution, organ trafficking, rights to use and information crimes, content is considered under the scope of freedom of expression. The Internet is the common area of all citizens of the world, with no central government and no management system, and bans and rules against freedom of expression are invalid in this area. This fact must never be ignored in all legal regulations. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the first priority of a social state that believes in democracy and the importance of IT technologies should be to create solutions that will deliver uncensored and cheap internet to all its citizens. The websites that play a major role in the spread of ideas and ideas on the Internet should be regarded as part of much vocalism and democracy. Ideas that do not encourage violence and criminal crimes should be judged under freedom of expression. In cases when the Internet abuses rights and freedoms, sanctions should not negatively affect the rights and freedoms of users. In dealing with crime on the Internet, censorship must be understood as an ineffective method. On these grounds, I expect your support for our motion, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0112par0598	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Mr. Halaçoglu, who will speak?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0113par0600	I'll do the talking, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0112par0601	Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0113par0603	Thank you, Mr. President. The 28th article of our Constitution states that the press is free, uncensored. The state takes measures to ensure freedom of press and information. Friends, I'd like to read you a poem. I think you'll all be interested. And the man cried out: Lord, show me an sign of thy presence. A butterfly flew out of the sky. But he didn't see it. And the man cried again, Lord, show me an sign of thy presence. A bird chirped in the tree. But he didn't. And the man cried again, and said, Lord, show me an sign of thy presence. There was a lightning bolt in the sky, a lightning bolt. But he didn't understand. And the man cried again, Lord, show me an sign of thy presence. A funeral passed by. But he didn't go there. Dear MPs, of course you need eyes to see, you need ears to hear, you need feelings to hear, and in order to get there, you really, really need to get there. Now, some of our friends, sir, asked if the audio recordings that appeared yesterday were correct. Now I want everyone to hear it.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0114par0621	That's right, Hajji. That's right.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0113par0622	I want everyone to listen, see what everyone thinks.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0114par0624	But some people have blind eyes and deaf ears, Hajji.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0115par0626	Mr. President, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0116par0627	Mr. President, that's the way it is, it's the way it is! Mr. Halaçoglu is in the wrong business right now, can you please warn him?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0117par0628	I don't hear anything. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0118par0630	We hear it, we believe it.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0119par0631	Look, he's not talking, he's doing something else. I mean, it serves the parallel structure, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0117par0632	No, I get it, but...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0120par0633	Does it suit you, Hajji?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0121par0634	It suits you, it suits you. Now, for God's sake, you ask, does it look good? Well, does it look good on a man who steals, for God's sake?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0122par0636	What do you know? Is there a verdict in court? Is it steady?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0121par0637	He hires a man who violates the 28th article of the Constitution, censors it, instructs it on a television, silences it, lifts it, writes it here, says here, with the phone call and then says: "Does this look good?... Well, is it appropriate what the Prime Minister does, my friends? (Applause from MHP rows) Does what the Prime Minister does look good?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0123par0638	Mr. Halaçoglu, his place is different.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0121par0639	Well, besides, does it look good on you? Shouldn't you at least object to censorship? But look, I'll tell you this: whoever recorded this did it wrong, but the Prime Minister did it more wrong, the television the Prime Minister ordered did it even more wrong, the press did it more wrong than that.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0124par0640	What if it's a lie?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0121par0641	One lives by honor. That's what I just said, in case you should understand. If you do not understand God's existence, what more can we say if you do not understand fraud here?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0125par0642	Mr. President, is this the meaning of God's existence?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0121par0643	What do we know about more? You're still talking. What's he saying here? Lift up, and remove the writing that flows below." he says. You're still defending the person who said that. It's a pity, isn't it? This House needs to get ahead of this kind of censorship, no matter who does it. But do you still hold on to it, sir, did he or did he not do it? Or do you think it's appropriate for you to say so here? It's a shame! Is it appropriate for you to say that to yourself? If I had the authority now to stop the Prime Minister from speaking, would it be appropriate if I pressed the TVs?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0126par0644	Would it be appropriate to show the tapes of the MHP? Would it be appropriate to show the tapes?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0127par0645	You already have!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0121par0646	No matter who it is, a president is being given a speech by an opposition president on TV, just because he's pressuring television and stopping it, I'll tell you this: as the National Movement Party, we're not going to believe any more news that TV, especially Haberturk You, flip all you want, no matter what you say, the spear doesn't fit in the sack anymore. You should at least be the ones who react to this pressure. That's what these people expect of you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0128par0649	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0129par0650	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0128par0651	I'll vote, Mr. Elistash. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş. Let's buy some time.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0130par0657	Mr. President, last night -- I don't know what time -- Mr. Halaçoglu came out here with his electronic device again, and he said, "I'm going to play the speech." Mr. Halaçoglu, I don't know if that speech exists or if it's true. [[Hanging banners in front of MHP rows]] Oh, and you're a banner boy, congratulations!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0131par0660	Started what?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0130par0661	Congratulations on being a banner boy!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0131par0662	To bannering.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0130par0663	You don't realize there's signs in there. Congratulations!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0132par0664	It's better to do that than to be a censor like you!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0130par0665	We don't know if it's true.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0133par0666	It's better to open a banner than to take it!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0130par0667	We don't know if it's true. But bringing a matter into custody regarding a confidential investigation is a sign that you are in violation of the law.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0134par0668	Well, well, well, well!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0130par0669	Two: The most important issue, beyond the issue of whether the Prime Minister instructed that person at that moment, is that if a country's Prime Minister can be heard, if the President of a country can be heard...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0135par0670	It's all wrong, it's all wrong. We say it's wrong. You were shouting, you were saying there's no such thing here.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0130par0671	...if a country's authority and institutions can be bugged, the most secret, private information of a country's intelligence agency...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0136par0672	You've been in power for 12 years, why didn't you do something?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0137par0673	What did you do for 12 years, what did you do for a living? What did you do as a result of listening?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0130par0674	...is shared by people like Halaçoglu and all the people in the world, then you have to be careful.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0138par0675	A hunter hunts, my fellow man!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0130par0676	That's why we say: Look, you don't realize the danger you're in right now.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0139par0677	We know, you don't.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0130par0678	By exposing what the Prime Minister said here, by hurting the AK PARTY...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0140par0679	You should have thought of that while you were watching us.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0130par0680	...you do so, you interfere. You are unaware of the danger we are in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0140par0681	You should have thought of that when you listened to us.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0141par0682	We know, you don't.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0130par0683	Someone has infiltrated the state of the Republic of Turkey like a virus, the system we call a parallel structure has leaked like a virus...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0142par0684	Well, you created it, you did! You've created parallel structures for ten years, so fear God!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0130par0685	...to destroy the legacy of the Republic of Turkey, and Mr. Halaçoglu is using you as a tool.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0142par0686	The parallel structure... that's your parallel structure. That structure is your parallel. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0130par0687	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0143par0689	You've been a pawn for 11 years, and you admit it?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0144par0690	That structure is your parallel! What are you talking about? Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0143par0691	They used you for 12 years, like a tongs. Shame!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0145par0692	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0146par0693	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0145par0695	Thank you, Mr. President. We know very well who are the ones who are used as tongs. With the parallel configuration that you've been with for 12 years, whoever's used you, you admit it yourself, who's used it.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0147par0697	So, if someone else was using it, you listened to it? Did you make him listen? Whoever did this used it like a tong.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0148par0698	You're doing it, you're doing it.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0149par0699	Yeah, the parallel structure you made.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0150par0700	But I'll tell you, we know what a secret structure is, but if you've been acting together for 12 years without even realizing it, if you don't know it's done in secret, and you're complaining about it today, then you don't understand the government business at all. And second of all, when did you hear that this was brought to trial? Have they been to court yet, my friends? Can anyone tell me? It has nothing to do with the court.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0151par0702	We call it an investigation...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0150par0703	It's got nothing to do with the court. It's just that he met with the President of the State Garden, and he says... where did Mr. Prime Minister go when the events took place? He's gone to Morocco. The president must take the initiative, correct it. He says there is no Prime Minister, he calls the President to his post and the Prime Minister knows everything, he calls from Morocco, and he says, "Put down those speeches. Now, gentlemen, you're telling me who's driving, what's being revealed by who. Why were you so quiet yesterday when you were doing so much work? Who was taking it off, then, your followers? Then why didn't you speak up? You say the parallel state, you say the national army was framed. Where were you when you were running this state? Now you've come to your senses?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0152par0706	On vacation, on vacation!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0150par0707	You guys were on vacation?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0153par0708	The tip touched them, and it started to hurt.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0154par0709	It's good to have someone else!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0150par0710	A government-run person knows what's going to happen in five days, but you don't know what's going to happen in three years. You've changed the Constitution, and now we've done wrong in HSYK. You don't even know what happened three years ago, and then you talk. Make up your mind, everyone, and speak according to him. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit02spe0155par0713	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0155par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 524. [[Continue]] The commission is here. The government is here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 6th Article 89 of the 524 Numbered Bill. Following the statement issued in the article's (d) joke, "returning the information the president requested to the presidency as requested and taking the measures declared by the presidency." "The accessor cannot provide information that is not his without the court's ruling. The access provider may request a court order to determine the nature of the information, the manner of the delivery and the reason for the use of its information, in the event of the request of classified or sensitive information, which may cause him to be charged or in his own eyes could be responsible." We offer and offer to change it into form. Erdal Aksunger (Izmir) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0156par0016	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0155par0017	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Aksinger, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I read your name three times today, finally...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0157par0022	Yeah. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before the closing, actually, I'd like to say a few things about the debate, about listening. There have been many disasters in this country, some of them from places where there are presidents here. There have been so many disasters in this country that we, on the wiretap commission, have brought all of this up on one occasion in fact, we've put in harms, but investigations and so forth. Look, when it's very clear in the law, the person's name, the writing of his last name, and the writing of his crime -- even if it's information -- and then taking the law force to a prosecutor behind him, the prosecutor has to look at all of this and put it in front of the judge and start listening after him, and there are thousands of people in this country who are going to listen to it, and there are thousands of people in this country who have been coded with the law. All of these allegations about thousands of people were used in court as evidence, and they were not destroyed in the law when they were supposed to be destroyed -- it's obvious, they're documented -- in other people's hands, one way or another. Now, you're talking about the state, the parallel state, the deep government, this one, this one. It doesn't matter where you're talking about, there's no law. All the government's ranks have been torn apart by someone. I mean, besides, if there's such an illegal organization out there, it's conditioned to listen to someone one way or another. So, is there a law enforcement force investigating this? Is there an action plan in the National Intelligence Agency against a gang that would create such external weaknesses that could happen on occasion? No, I don't. Is there a law enforcement agency? No, I don't. The Home Secretary was just sitting here. Let me ask him something: There is a claim that there has been no inventory of the Security Intelligence Agency in this country since 2010; let him come out and answer. Let him explain where those vehicles were, which city from Germany, which branded vehicles were brought here, and where they are now; he can't, he can't, he can't. Look, now, you're going to give the TİB the authority. Okay, fine. Well, isn't that the same TIB? It says in the TİB Law: if you don't see it as legal when it comes to hearing from the judge, if you see it as illegal, return it. However, we've heard from a lot of people on the commission that the man was listening under his alias 8,000. We asked, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Some of this was used as evidence in some cases in this country, and no one could tell where it came from. If there are objections, all objections must be brought here. It's all happened in this country. If there's a government, if there's a skin, if there's a parallel, it's all the people here. I want to make that very clear. Now, we have motions on the law. The investigation of alternative access routes... let me tell you, we're already basically against the current state of 5651, and as my party, we're against the whole of it. This law comes as a penal code, right now, the law of censorship, no matter what they say. It says to find alternative access ways. How will you find it? For example, you've shut down all the tunnels; do we have that ability? For example, do we have this kind of technology with the great knowledge-hows that the state of the Republic of Turkey has taken steps so far? No, it's not like that. Here, are we going to prevent the proxys, prevent the VPNs, or prevent the Ktunnels? What are we gonna do? No, we're not going to do that, but I'll tell you something very interesting: the National Intelligence Agency's -- one way or another -- says in the Agency's law that you're an officer of international signals, so you don't have to go there without the law, so you don't have to go there. Now, if you're going abroad to go to Google, or YouTube, or Facebook, and you're looking at something that's going outside the signal, then the National Intelligence Agency has the right to stop this place one way or another, without any law, review, tagging it; it appears in this law, right now. If these are... you didn't write down what happened there, what are the alternative ways of access, for example? Tell me, get up here. Is there something we don't know? Get out, explain. There's no such thing. I mean, we're totally against it, but I'm only saying this because you wrote it here. Most of them are, in theory -- you've written them -- it's practically impossible to apply them. In the last ten to fifteen years in this country, you've left the country so far behind from technology, infrastructure investments; there's no FATH Project, no IT classes, you've spent billions of dollars here and there, they've all gone to waste. That's why he says you don't have that kind of technology, and I give you all a lot of respect to talk about what's left of it later.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0158par0032	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 90, there are three proposals of the same nature. I'll have them read the motions and process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 90 of the current Law Bill 524 be removed from the draft text. Mustafa Kalaycı Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Haluk Ayhan Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı Yusuf Halaçoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Erdal Aksunger Muharrem İlk Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Altan Tan Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0159par0054	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0158par0055	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Kaplan, let's start with you. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0160par0060	Dear friends, our friend Erdal has made a few points. You're going to set up the access providers unit here, so Turkey has 196 access providers; there are big ones, small ones, like shops, but with this clause, if the access provider is not a member of this unit, he won't be able to operate, so the access providers will no longer be able to work without your consent. The first ban was for obstruction of labour freedom. Second: You will question and answer the representatives of Microsoft, Google, the representatives of the world's giant U.S. and other sources here, you will give responsibility, you will give responsibility, you will give duty; you will have no right. Now, we're done with this. Now, as a TİB, are you listening or not? That's the whole point, guys. Is there a wiretap in this country or not? Tape, blackmail, Internet or not? Now, look, guys, the TİB is doing the wiretaps from the forensic authorities. Now, the TİB, who's been doing the wiretaps from the judicial authorities, is the center of the wiretap, receiving wiretaps from both the police and the gendarmes, implementing court decisions. They've got huge warehouses, they've even kept them for years, and we've seen them together as research commissions. Now, when you can't solve the secret listening, illegal, immoral, inhumane, inhumane, low-profile listening, and the mechanism to prevent blackmail, take whatever you want, shut it down in four hours, destroy it, burn it, do whatever you want, story. You're talking nonsense, it's empty. Look, under the name of preventive listening, friends, all governors, governors, governors of 81 provinces, police chiefs and police commanders are listening. In Turkey, listening, standing friends have fallen to the level of secret listening sergeant and guard in this country. In secret listening to the level of expert sergeant and guard, 80 per cent of public officials listen to the President, the Prime Minister, the Supreme Judgement, the country, the parliamentarians, of course. A Minister of the Interior came here, speaking on this bench, and said: "I have listened to the BDP MPs. " He made it so clear from this stand. What could be more obvious than that? Didn't one of you say, for God's sake, isn't it illegal? Isn't it a crime? Did you say one of you? No. Now, if you'd like to take precautions when the wiretap comes to your door and when you're in the danger zone, here are four groups of parties... We have suggestions on the wiretap commission. Come, let's take precautions. I recommend one person from each party. In one week, in Turkey, we'll put secret listening in history, we'll bury it in the garbage of history, we'll bury immorality, we'll bury immorality, we'll bury lawlessness, we'll bury all of this in history in a week. Come, if you have a heart, if you have a heart, if you have a secret listening, if you dare to listen immorally. If you say so, let us correct it. If we make the constitution of this, if we make the law of this, then no one will be too afraid to give the TİB this authority because the TİB is an administrative institution. The administration depends on the government. The government stands before the judge...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0161par0066	Mr. Kaplan, we're in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0160par0067	Do you have an MHP? We're in BDP. Mr. Elitaş, are you in? Let's get rid of the wiretap, let's get it over with in a week with a constitutional arrangement. It's simple, we'll finish this in a week; we're claiming it. I claim that within a week, in Turkey, we'll be finished eavesdropping, voyeurism, immorality, watching, tracking, capturing, detecting those who did it. Let him who has the heart come, and he who has the honor come. We open the door, we're ready with all the MPs, I'm ready. Let's go to power! You're welcome to join us. Come on, let's get this over with this week, I'm telling you, it's so obvious. Let's stop with the censorship, the logic, the prudence; come on, let's set it up, let's not be afraid.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0162par0070	Mr. Secretary says I'm ready, too.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0163par0071	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0164par0074	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs on our motion as the National Movement Party. I salute you all. We're talking about organizing online publications. Now, dear lawmakers, why do you need such an arrangement, you have to question it first? Now, Mr. Prime Minister says three days ago: they even listened to the president, listened to me, listened to my children. They ask the human being... Do you know who's saying it? Prime Minister of this country. Then I must ask the Prime Minister, what do you do for 12 years? I mean, you haven't done this for 12 years, and you're gonna do it after that?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0165par0077	Salma's been released, he's been busy salmaing.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0164par0078	Then you have declared to yourself that you cannot rule this country, Mr. Prime Minister. Now, do you know why you needed this, why you were pleased with yourself, why you needed it? December 17th and December 25th, there is corruption of the century, whether you accept it or not. There is now a criminal organization in Turkey that has been corrupted, and corruption has covered all sides. Now, you're trying to make a number of laws in a hurry to get in the way of that. You brought in the HSYK Law, you worked day and night, but the Minister of Justice stepped in. He operated in the apartment; when he moved prosecutors, judges, half the time, we did the job. Now, here you are, thinking you got away with changing the prosecutors, the judges, but now you're bringing in the Internet law when there's a series of publications coming out in a row. Dear MPs, remember: Look, you've just been angry, you've said, you've said, you've said, "This is what you said," but a prime minister from Morocco calls the Editor-in-Chief of the Editor-in-Chief of the MHP, and says, "Don't take out the president of the MHP." It didn't happen during February 28th. You've been able to search the 28th of February with wax.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0166par0080	Blah, blah, blah,
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0164par0081	Yes, yes, in that February 28th period, there were some euphemisms, and today, the Prime Minister has his tributeists. But, remember -- look -- during February 28th, there were chips, and during February 28th, a lot of people were being tagged, and a lot of people were being moved overnight. No Efkan Ala? I don't know where he went. Now, Efkan Ala, you're talking about national will. Where would Efkan Ala represent the national will, being chosen like us? But it's the Home Secretary 1,500-2 every day. He's moving 500 cops; he's not enough; he's taking over national education; he's bringing his brother there; he's interfering with the finances. Reports from MIT, MIT! What's MIT's job, MIT's job? The MIT's job is to ensure the safety of this country, but you're looking at it, the MIT has flagged and tagged the people who work for the CHP. We don't have any businessmen left. You have all the businessmen. But, remember, dear lawmakers, look, remember those who run the 28th February process. What did the actors of the February 28th process say? It would last a thousand years, he said. A thousand years. But by God's will and by the will of this nation, they couldn't stand a year, two years, they were destroyed. They'd coded themselves to go on for a thousand years. I'm looking at the Prime Minister today, and he's coded himself in no way to leave this power. They're the ones who came out today. It became so that I removed military custody, removed judicial custody, took control of the bureaucracy. The Prime Minister was standing by yesterday applauding those who had done these operations. Today it says that the group's deputy chairman: are you with the parallel structure? If there is a parallel structure, you were together, Mr. Elitaş; you were together, the AKP was together. Think of it as logic for once. We, the National Movement Party, have always stood by the truth, but you, we have removed military custody, judicial custody. You went to this nation boastfully, asking for votes. You know what you got when you did that? You feel untouchable, no one can touch us. You said, "No one can touch us." And you run this country with a one-man model, you run it with a one-man model; you put aside the law, you put aside the law; you put 10 media headlines on the same page as your instructions, and you didn't see the wrongs. You thought nothing would come out, but everything will be revealed in the sight of God. With these laws today, you can overcome everything with this power, but there is no escape from God's justice. Lawmakers of the AKP, those who are not involved will always remember God's justice by putting their hand on their conscience. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0167par0091	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Aksinger, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0168par0093	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, here's the code name ESB, I call it the Kira killer. Why? Now, why would you need such a unit? Who is the judge provider of the Union of Accessors in Turkey? Turkish TELEKOM. Can the Internet go anywhere on landlines without Turkish TV? No way. Whose Turkish TELEKOM is it? I mean, I don't know who your people are.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0169par0095	Did they give it to you?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0168par0096	I don't know about that, that's something else.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0169par0097	I mean, is there anything else?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0168par0098	Now, there's no way that a job that Turk TELEKOM called no can be achieved anywhere in Turkey. It's the Internet, milk, meat, I don't know. If TÜRK TELOM is giving something, no. He's saying -- he's a judge provider -- he doesn't have it. Now, why are you building a union when this guy's like this? The reason is that in the world's advanced democracies, it will be criticised one way or another, and Turkey will be ground to ground. Article 8/a in the European Court of Human Rights, 9/a, all of which will be subject to very serious convictions. You're saying we don't make the decision, the NGO does. But we don't need this NGO. If that's the case, let TİB President TÜRK tell TelEKOM (TİB) about landlines so that they can shut it down. Besides, there's BTK here. The BTK is an institution in this country that's waving axes at all of these institutions, so it can shut down whatever it wants. Why is that? It's just an institution built to look cute to the European Union and to the world, which, in my own words, is what I call a local killer. We don't need this institution, it's ridiculous. Now, since BTK, TİB were such capable institutions... I'll tell you something, in 2011, we even said this on the commission: Turkish Metropolitan Municipality of Ankara has been certified to EGO, a stem cell certificate. You know what that means? The access to everyone's personal information. A second location was given to the Central Bank of the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus. Now, you know, this coven thing, I mean, it's such an institution that gives you these security certificates in Turkey. Now, the Central Bank returns it back to TÜRKRUST, which is given to me wrongly. It says, "This gives me a lot more authority than what I really want to do than what I want to do." For some reason, the Mayor's EGO doesn't return it, so he does some sort of certification for almost a year or so. Let me tell you a little something. I asked a fellow head of the commission -- I won't name him -- look, if you give me this document -- when I asked him if I could get all the information of the citizens walking down the street, if I could have their bank information or passwords, he said to me, "If you have such a certificate in your hand, of course you can have it." I mean, it's an institution of Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, where you can e-mail and you can enter a bank for a year, where you can get your information. It's like a responsible institution, like the Central Bank in Northern Cyprus, which was given to us by mistake, given to us by mistake. They didn't say, they used it for a year. So what happens when it comes down to it? What happened to these men? Nothing's been done. Is there an inspection? No. So, was this information really taken, the people's information sold to one of them? No one knows that. So, how do some friends get an I.D. on social media in the morning? Let him explain it to the head of the BTK, how does he get it? Now, since our friends here are a little technical, maybe they won't be able to explain it, he can explain it, or let the president of the TİB explain, how did he get it? If such a document exists, if such a certificate exists, can it be reached? Yes, he can. Because who warned us? It's an institution that warns us from across the world; Google Chrome warns us that: here, this document may be forged. He's getting information about all my e-mail data, all the citizens I've e-mailed. Not just Google, but all the e-mails like this, all the addresses they all went to. Look, this is a huge scandal. Nothing's been done about it. I'm going to press charges here again. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit03spe0170par0103	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Since it's seven o'clock, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit04spe0170par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 524. The commission is here. The government is here. There are three motions on Article 91: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 524th Amendment, under Article 91 of the 524 Orders Numbered Bill, is the number 7th Amendment in the United States. Article 4. "Currently, the courts are authorized to decide whether to impose administrative fines from the thousand Turkish liras to the fifteen thousand Turkish liras or to halt commercial activities in three days," the joke said, following the statement "to public use providers who violate the obligations laid down in this article, by regulations and regulations determined according to the weight of the violation." We offer and offer to change it into form. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Muharrem İlk Erdal Aksunger Moonbeat Ramis Topal Binnaz Earth Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under Article 91 of the current bill of law number 524, "the property of the estate is in charge. " We offer and propose that his testimony be changed to "interested jurisdictional court." Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Alto Tan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 91 of Law Bill 524 be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Haluk Ayhan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Muharrem Varlı Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. The motion from the National Party for Action... You want me to read the motive?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit04spe0171par0030	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit04spe0170par0031	Motive... All Internet public use providers, including online cafes, are charged with blocking access to the content that constitutes crime. It is against the nature of things that businesses have to know that what matters is a crime. This material is intended to create a environment of fear and to prevent access to the auto-accession mechanism, even though there is no court order. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The 524th Article of the draft law, which is held in accordance with the 91st Article, is the chief of property. We propose and propose that his statement be changed as a court-appointed judge. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit04spe0172par0040	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit04spe0170par0041	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit04spe0173par0045	Dear friends, we're talking about something really serious here. Internet service providers -- code name, Mr. Erdal -- will know everything from now on, TİB will make it easy, decide in four hours, and they'll get caught. So, what kind of losses will Internet restrictions bring? Do they ever take into account the economic and social ramifications of these? No. Now, look, I'm going to count the problems that have arisen in the practice so far -- so I'm going to count them for what happens after today -- the principles of proportionality, or measurement, have not been observed. There will be more from now on, and no one will hesitate about it. For different legal reasons, do you have measurement of the consequences that limit individuals' fundamental rights and freedoms in their decision to block access given? No. But there's no constitution, no contracts, no Human Rights Convention, nothing like that. It has been observed that the loss of rights has arisen due to lack of co-ordination in meeting decisions to prevent accession. Now, look, you found the man responsible. There was no Union of Accessors, this was happening, wasn't it? Who's doing the secret listening, guys? MIT. In the incident of the Uludere massacre, see, on December 22nd, the Herons and Predators gave their first intel at the same time. MIT's bringing in intelligence, giving it to the government. On December 27th, they say that Fehman Hussein is in this team, and we received a phone signal. And on this phone signal, units from there... the software of the Heron. America. Now, we're talking about two points, friends, one to Tel Aviv, one to Washington. Now, you're trying to get 50 bureaucrats and service providers to do the work that America has done by employing 55,000 staff. Then, on that false intelligence, when the National Security Council is at the meeting, the order to shoot itself -- as stated in the decision to disobey -- is given within the knowledge of the Chief of Staff and all the Prime Minister and ministers on that day on the National Security Council. Now, after the error of intelligence, we killed 34 of our citizens. When you get to the point, you say it's a necessary mistake. Now, when you're making decisions about access to this Internet here, you're going to think, "Who's eavesdropping?" You'll get the answer to that question. Who's giving the wiretaps to the Internet? Who's handing this out to the accessors? He gives you access to the information that he's going to catch whoever's handing it out, so you're stuck with the accessors. What kind of approach is that? In what legal state can you prevent this from happening? In the software industry, Turkey is already behind, and it's not a cure if you've increased your RD money by 2%. Come on, let's get you a radical solution, guys, and we'll solve the secret listening. In Internet access, let's radically solve the leak of illegal data. Come on, let's do this from here. Yeah, how does a criminal court decide, how does it get control of Congress, how does it work if it's set up as an audit group; it's all very easy things. Come on, let's solve this once and for all. If it's possible to solve this, you guys are dealing with and so on. You can't fight the pest in the Prime Minister's office, you can't stop the President from listening, and you're in a very serious error. I'm saying there's no stopping it with a bag. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit04spe0174par0057	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 524th Amendment, under Article 91 of the 524 Orders Numbered Bill, is the number 7th Amendment in the United States. Article 4. "Currently, the courts are authorized to decide whether to impose administrative fines from the thousand Turkish liras to the fifteen thousand Turkish liras or to halt commercial activities in three days," the joke said, following the statement "to public use providers who violate the obligations laid down in this article, by regulations and regulations determined according to the weight of the violation." We offer and offer to change it into form. Binnaz Earth (Istanbul) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit04spe0175par0064	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit04spe0174par0065	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Dear Earth, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit04spe0176par0069	Mr. President, dear friends, I'm going to discuss the amendments to the 7th Amendment of Law 5651. Now, Law 5651, you know, during the AKP period, was released in 2007 and the Internet bans were imposed. This is a law that has been criticised by all international institutions and organizations -- whichever ones I have time for -- which ones I want to talk about -- which brings limits to Internet freedom. As if that wasn't enough, now the changes in the bag of legislation are consolidating these prohibitions. Every time power brings a law proposal that restricts freedom, and we object to it, the answer is: "Sir, it's in Western democracies." As you look at these restrictions, some restrictions have been imposed on Internet users in Western democracies. However, there is a difference: We have bans to limit the freedom of users, whereas there are bans to protect the rights of users in the West. For example, copyright infringement on the Internet, one of the bans is in the West. Identity theft. So it's online for you to take my I.D. and throw something in my name, throw something out on the Internet. Interfering with cases that have affected Internet security, such as credit card thefts or viruses, etc., or hacking. Besides, there are a few other things. The only law we have in common is child porn. It's forbidden for us and it's forbidden in the West, but the others aren't really interested. Now, you're looking at the bans on 5651, which are called catalog crimes, which are really very vague. The United Nations reporter who wrote a report on this issue, the Internet bans, says that in relation to our prohibitions, these catalogs are extremely vague, over-complianced and arbitrary. I'll give you one example: For God's sake, who can decide what is obscene in Turkey? That much... or anywhere in the world, as a matter of fact, who can decide because there are very different opinions. You know, a few years ago, in Istanbul, a woman fishing on the Galata Bridge blew up her skirt and blew it up, saying, "Wow, sir! I mean, it's not like there's gonna be some kind of restraining order that can be pulled all over the place like this! Now, as if these aren't already vague enough, they've been added something like the protection of private life. I looked at the English of this, you know, in the West. It's called, there really is, in all the international literature. The way we see it, like this, the privacy of the bedroom, or the secrecy of the sexual life, we understand something about it, we have that dimension. But in terms of the Internet bans,.................................................................................................................................................................................................. So, government, who am I writing letters to, who am I calling, what am I writing in these letters, what am I talking to on the phone, who am I telegraphing or Facebook, Twitter, my Twitter, because there is no telegram in the world of today -- who am I communicating with, it's confidential, and it's really important. Because, in 2005, I think, Yahoo -- this is an Internet provider -- gave a Chinese journalist the identity of a Chinese journalist to the Chinese government, and as a result, this journalist was sentenced to ten years in prison. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip. (xx) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip. Now, British scientist Sir Berners-Lee, founder of the World Wide Web Foundation, says that in 2013, people across the world communicated with the Internet, organized, acted, and discovered the corruption and errors of governments. A number of governments that were uncomfortable also brought censorship and bans to the Internet. This is really dangerous for the future of democracies. I agree with that because democracy can only live in environments of freedom of thought. Beyond that, it's also very important for the development of countries. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit04spe0177par0080	Thank you, Hajji. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are agreed. There are three motions in Article 92. I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Law number 5651, replaced by Article 92 of the existing 524 rows of the law. The decision to block access can also be granted for a limited period of time if it is seen to be intended to fulfill its purpose." We provide and propose that the sentence be added. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Haluk Ayhan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 92 of the current 524 rows of the bill be completely removed from the bill. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Hasip Kaplan Altan Tan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 524 Orders Numbered Bill 92. Law number 5651 in Article Two. We offer and propose that the pearl clause be removed from the text of the law. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Muharrem İlk Erdal Aksunger Ramis Topal Riza Turmen Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit04spe0178par0103	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit04spe0177par0104	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Riza Turmen, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit04spe0179par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have been promised a motion on Article 8 of Law 5651 to block access. It's a limitation of freedom of thought. There is a decision from the European Court of Human Rights on this clause: Yıldırım-Turkey decision. In this Yıldırım-Turkey resolution, the European Court of Human Rights has already said everything there is to say about the 8th Amendment, so I'd like to explain that decision a little bit. Ahmet Yıldırım has a website, and by court order, this website is being shut down. He's going to the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights examines how appropriate Article 8 is for the contract, how fit for the law. When he does this, he looks at this: once, is it born of the law, is the limitation due to the law? Yeah, it's the law, but it's not enough. This law is looking at whether or not it should be a law in a state of law. As he looks at this, he considers the following issues. For one thing, it says that the TİB/E, Telecommunication Communication Chairman is given very broad powers, and that authority must never be unlimited, the law has no limits. After that, unknowledged concepts are being used in law, Law 5651, Article 8/8. For example, the Internet broadcast contains all kinds of publications, and the end of this is unclear. This uncertainty disturbs the court, and the court says, "What is the greater advantage when making this decision without looking at the balance of interests, without weighing it?" He says, "The qualities that should be in the state of law do not exist in this law." What are those qualities? Here, sir, the law does not exist in this law, such as the openness, the accessibleness of the law -- the predictable consequences of that law -- and for all these reasons, the European Convention on Human Rights decides to violate the 10th article on freedom of thought, and, sir, it condemns the government to moral compensation of 7,500 euros. What is the Turkish government's obligation from now on? The Turkish government's obligation is that it must pay 7,500 euros once; that's one. But that's not enough, but at the same time, the Turkish government must eliminate the cause of this breach. What is this reason? He must rewrite Article 8 in such a way that the application of Article 8 will no longer violate the contract, which means he must improve the 8th article. Did Turkey make such a improvement? No, he expanded the scope of Article 8 of Article 8 of Article 8 of Article 8 of the decision to block TİB's access without a court order has been extended and has not touched Article 8 of Article 8 of the article. The result will be: Now, this will come to the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers in charge of implementing the decision, and the Committee of Ministers will ask the Turkish Ambassador there, and he will say: "O Ambassador, what has your state done to enforce this decision?" Has he changed the law? What will the Ambassador say there? Yes, he changed the law, but not the way you said it, but the opposite. So he made changes that completely limit freedom of thought, freedom of expression, and he will have to say so. This, of course, will cause Turkey trouble, raise pressure on Turkey on the Council of Europe. As long as you do not change this law, as long as you do not improve the 8th Amendment, the screws there will slowly start to be compressed, a decision will be adopted, it will be said: change this clause. The letter will be written to the State Department and it will be applied to such increasing factors if Turkey does not comply with this decision. So the situation we're in is that with these amendments, the European Court of Human Rights has decided that Law 5651 is not in accordance with the contract, that the law should be corrected, that it should be made in accordance with the criteria in the contract. We're doing the opposite, increasing the inhibitors of freedom of expression in the contract. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This, of course, is incompatible with Turkey's obligations and its Constitution. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit04spe0180par0116	Thank you, Mr. Specten.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit04spe0181par0117	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit04spe0180par0118	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0180par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote of İzmir MP Reza Mr. Turmen and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. We will continue negotiations with Bill 524. The commission is here. The government is here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 92 of the current 524 rows of the bill be completely removed from the bill. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0182par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0180par0014	Government, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0183par0017	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0180par0018	Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0184par0019	Mr. President, it is said in this article that the duration of the blocking of access will be extended by an executive decision made by the president of TİB as much as he likes. But my brother, you've made your decision, you've been denied access in four hours; then take it to the judge, and say: "Is it correct, or is it not true, that it violates the rights of the person?"
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0185par0020	I do.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0184par0021	No, you don't.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0185par0022	There is, if you read the rest of the material, there is.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0184par0023	Look, there's an arrangement here against the 90th Amendment of the Constitution. The 90th article of the Constitution states that international contracts in Turkey are under law. • A decision on the rights of persons, freedom of thought and organisation of those contracts, safety and freedom of persons is against the Constitution, the 90th article. Mr. Turmen also gave examples of the European Court of Human Rights as a judge. To this day, none of us have come to you with a single criticism about the children's sexual assault charges, the blackmail tapes, the covert wiretaps, the rights to personality, the decisions you've made on such matters. Look, be careful, keep an eye on this. You guys haven't made a decision like this in four years. We've got tapes here about two parties. Mashallah, we're looking, you've put the url, the post, the IPP, all the technological concepts in this bag. But you need to put some law in this bag, some morality, some democracy, guys. If, when you put this, you hit all the articles of the law, of the European contract, of the freedom of thought and organization from the rights of character, and you look there for this: whether it's legal, moral, human, and the principles of democracy, you do the research to see if it's appropriate. Be careful, we are with you until the end, with every decision you make regarding corrupt websites, harmful publications, criminal broadcasts, blackmail tapes -- as long as it's legal, it's developing democracy. What we're saying is that if you start using this weapon to silence the opposition, you're in danger. Because the TİB is already eavesdropping. It is not acceptable for a secret-hearing institution to listen and make a restraining order and extend its restraining order by any amount of time, to keep service providers tied to it, to try to punish it. Now, I'm asking you, the president of TİB has decided in four hours, and he's tried to implement this system. Just yesterday, the hackers entered all the addresses of the MIT and the police, friends. They took all their I.D.'s and they said, We don't publish. We say that this system is not healthy and there is no 100% security system. That's what the next two points are. I'll tell you the methods, the drills, the violations. My problem is here, if we're going to do this, we've made a proper arrangement... we've taken the decision, we've taken the authority, we'll prevent it, it's over. That's not true, guys. Here, you will fall into a conversation, such as banning a parliamentary question motion. This well is like gayia; it has no roots; you can't get rid of the wells, it reminds us. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0186par0027	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Law number 5651, replaced by Article 92 of the existing 524 rows of the law. The decision to block the agreement after its declaration can also be given for a limited period of time if it is seen that it is intended to fulfill its purpose. We propose and propose that the sentence be added. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0187par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0186par0035	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0188par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I'm probably one of the most useable of this Internet in Congress, but I'll tell you this: according to this new bill, there is a permanent blockage of the area that is currently being applied in the matter of blocking access, as well as in the means and methods that are based and so forth. So, due to the illegal content of a particular section of a website, access to that website can only be blocked. It is also mentioned that access to a restricted site will be possible by accessing a server abroad with a system known as the VPN (VPN) system, or by replacing it with the DNS. In this case, it would be easier for users to access all data exchanges because of the fact that a web site contains illegal content, while only one part of it may seem positive for access to the rest of the site, it will be based on the address extension which will be blocked from blocking it permanently. At the same time, this inspection will require serious costs and infrastructure for access providers. On the other hand, being replaced by similar methods means preventing people from accessing a website means that people will restrict their right to free travel, access to information, and access to information via the Constitution. In other words: for those who provide and operate systems that provide services and content, the time of keeping the information of users, the information of traffic information, has been mandatory for up to one to two years with a new arrangement. The fact that this information, which will be evidenced in terms of intelligence and investigations, will be recorded for at least a year may be useful to law enforcement and prosecutors. In order to solve the problem of preventing evidence from being lost, this provision may have been brought into consideration for the process of judicial activity that was going on quite late. However, information to keep a record is personal data on how long individuals have been connected to the Internet and have stayed there. Such a long record of these data will bring with it some dangers in the privacy and security of personal data. In a country without a law to protect personal data, the fact that personal data in a stack is obligatoryly recorded will be used against individuals and will pose a danger of monitoring, tagging, monitoring, and monitoring their activities on the Internet. It is also unclear how to preserve this information as long as it is kept under record, and how to destroy the records at the end of the time, and under what circumstances. On the other hand, administrative fines organised by the bill are high enough for many companies operating online or through the Internet to shut down their shutters. When a decision was made to block access providers, the bill made it necessary for alternative access routes to be blocked along with them and for the technical facilities needed for these applications to be found, and clearly stated that the expense would be registered to these companies, it would belong to them. Again, when the decision to block access to the law is one of the catalogue crimes mentioned in this law, if there are catalog crimes such as driving suicide, selling drugs, obsceneness, gambling, cataloging crimes, it can now be given, while there is also a decision to block access when it comes to violations of personal rights and privacy. Dear lawmakers, in fact, there are many other issues like this in the bill, but if time is available, I will address them later. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0189par0048	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions in Article 93, I have them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the "real and legal persons and institutions and organizations" sign, replaced by Article 9 of Article 9 of Law, which has been changed to Article 93 of Law 524, shall be replaced as "real people," and the 8th joke shall be removed from the bill and the following jokes shall be addressed accordingly. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Haluk Ayhan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 524 is the 93rd of the Numbered Legislature. The 9th Amendment under Article 55651. The first, second, fifth and ninth of the unsub's jokes have to be changed in the following way and added to the article on the right to be forgotten. We offer to add a joke and propose. Ramis Topal Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aytuğ Atcı Ali Özgündüz Erdal Aksunger Muharrem Light 1- True and legal individuals who claim that their rights are violated because of the broadcast content of the Internet environment, and institutions and organisations can apply to its provider, its locator, and ask for a warning to remove the content from the air. 2- From the day he receives the application for content provider, he has to comply or reject the request within a day. No response is interpreted as rejection. In that case, the allegedly has to resort to the residential provider. The locator must observe or reject the application within three days. No response is interpreted as rejection. In this case, the alleged official may appeal to the court and ask that access to the content be denied. The competent courts will decide in three days from the date of the request. 5- Sustainment of the access given by the judge within this clause informs the content provider and the locator. If the content provider or location provider does not comply with this decision within three workdays from the date of the notification, the Union of Accessors shall fulfil its decision. 9- Under this clause, the decision to block the access given by the judge is also applied to these addresses in the case of publication of the right to a violation of the subject's right of character or the publication of the same property being published on other websites. 11- The right to be forgotten (internet rights) is the right to request that the person's rights be removed on the grounds that a person may suffer social damage in his later life as a result of the fact that the data entered after a person's intentional or unknowingly sharing personal information on the Internet was later seen publicly. In order for a person to demand the removal of content about himself, at least five years from the date of the release of my content will have to pass. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 93 (93) of the law bill, which is currently in session, be completely removed from the bill. Pervin Buldan Altan Tan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Erol Dora Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0190par0076	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0189par0077	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0191par0080	Mr. President, thank you. Now, I'm going to come back to the issue of dissemination of content and obstruction of access. The blackmail tapes were released in the last election, and I'm asking if you've been able to identify them. Did Mr. BTK executives, TİB executives, do any research on this? No. Did MIT do it? No. Were you able to locate it? No. Were you able to stop it? No. Now, for God's sake, don't you think they'll ask you when you put something that you can't do here, by making a law in a bag of law, and by doing it in a manner of speaking? You've taken the decision from the court to get the content off the air and block its access, let alone the TİB, and it doesn't fit. Your punishment for a service provider who doesn't comply, I come to the end, and it is punishable by criminal fines from five hundred days to three thousand days, to not enforce the sentence of the court. They have service distributors who will pay and commit this crime a hundred times a day. In fact, I don't know what's going on. Guys, everybody laughs when you take that law out like this and write it down. You don't do anything effective because it spreads news that in the Internet, a company with billions of turnovers will collapse. If you write him a fine of 3,000 liras, can you tell me what it says? He's not a deterrent, just take it out of logic, get it out of the law. In this article, we're going to... Now, you've counted on this clause, the TİB takes four hours, then it's contested, it's contested, it's contested, it's contested. On all of these issues, you've put in... ten items of substance. Now, after the release of content and blocking access, a 9/A clause comes from behind to Article 9/A, a continuation of access to the content due to the privacy of private life. Why are they friends on separate substances? You know, there was a block for the protection of personality rights, you know, for other things, you know, for porn. For God's sake, why isn't there a law against virtual gambling in this bag? Can someone come out and tell me? Does anyone know about the turnover that virtual gambling has reached? This TIC, for God's sake, is even at the price of peppers in inflation.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0192par0084	Sehven is dead, sehven.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0191par0085	You know, take it off and, uh, you know, take it off, you know, like, at least... Do you know the number of virtual gambling played on the Seychell Islands through Cyprus, through Costa Rica? This one's gone, too. Do you know what loan sharks are doing online? No. Do you guys care that we're the only ones who call you............?.....?...????????????????????????????????????? Is it about singing a song in our own language? When you say our political opinions are forbidden, do you think about them? When we say our existence, identity, do we come to mind? Is that what the bans are for? Is that why the secret of the government is coming to mind? Is that what the trade secret is for? After that, is that why you think of special, secret sentences? Solve it with special, secret sentences, take it from the root. We went to the MIT building and Security Intelligence -- they made fun of the MPs for covert surveillance -- you know, they made fun of us, they made fun of us, so they wouldn't inform the House. An officer who's not afraid of his coven, an officer who doesn't respect his coven... that's not how you're going to stop this wiretap. There's code for that, guys. These codes go from the modernization of the gendarmes to the capture of the police. You work with them as a TİB. You're getting data from them, you're sending them data, it's spreading. We're not spreading this here -- let's be clear -- there's nothing coming out of us. I'm getting your attention. We recommend that this dangerous substance be removed.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0193par0089	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 524 is the 93rd of the Numbered Legislature. The 9th Amendment under Article 55651. The first, second, fifth and ninth of the unsub's jokes have to be changed in the following way and added to the article on the right to be forgotten. We offer to add a joke and propose. Ali Özgündüz (Istanbul) and his friends 1- True and legal individuals who claim that their rights are violated because of the broadcast content of the Internet environment, and institutions and organisations can apply to its provider, its locator, and ask for a warning to remove the content from the air. 2- From the day he receives the application for content provider, he has to comply or reject the request within a day. No response is interpreted as rejection. In that case, the allegedly has to resort to the residential provider. The locator must observe or reject the application within three days. No response is interpreted as rejection. In this case, the alleged official may appeal to the court and ask that access to the content be denied. The competent courts will decide in three days from the date of the request. 5- Sustainment of the access given by the judge within this clause informs the content provider and the locator. If the content provider or location provider does not comply with this decision within three workdays from the date of the notification, the Union of Accessors shall fulfil its decision. (x) A non-English word was expressed by the Hajip in this chapter. 9-As part of this clause, the decision to block the access given by the judge is also applied to these addresses if the publication of the right to the right of character is published on other websites of the same property. The right to be forgotten (on the Internet rights) is the right to demand that the person's right to be removed on the grounds that a person may be harmed socially in his next life as a result of the fact that data that was entered later on the Internet may have been seen knowingly or unknowingly, after sharing personal information on the Internet. In order for a person to demand the removal of content about himself, at least five years from the date of the release of my content will have to pass. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0194par0102	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0193par0103	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Original, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0195par0107	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, in fact, we all know why this censorship law is being brought in. Article 93, which I am promised on, and Article 94, after which, is the privacy of private life and, sir, the obstruction of content due to the violation of personal rights. Now, friends, is this bribery, corruption, personal life, personal rights? Who's gonna appreciate it? President of TİB. Therefore, do not let the citizen find out about the bribery in chocolate boxes. That's not gonna happen. Dear friends, the right of the public to the right to the truth is one of the basic human rights. You've actually victimized a lot of people using it in the past, but when the work came, it touched you, no, parallel structure, that building, this building. You're trying to block people's right to hear this time. Dear friends, let me tell you something. You, Mr. Prime Minister, are being misled by government officials. On that note, this is about the December 17th investigation: this is not a recent investigation, dear friends. It's not like that, it's a parallel structure. No, it's a choice. No, they want to take us down. No, no, no, no, no. It's not like that. These are all lies, you know that. When did the investigation start, friends? Friends in 2007. In 2007, this investigation began over heroin that was caught in a truck that exited Edirne Kaskule. After that, the wiretaps were made, the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office launched an investigation in 2007, and then there was another investigation in 2008. As the police tracked down the gang on this, they found out your ministers were involved, and that's how clear it is.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0196par0112	And you believed it!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0195par0113	That's right. If you don't believe me, go look at the DOJ file. Let's get them to talk about the ministers. Dear friends, we criticize the thief. Look, we have business with thieves. I hereby congratulate Mr. Minister Babacan and Mehmet Simsek. You know why I congratulate you? Because they weren't involved in this theft. They say there: these two ministers are not like the others. He's a strange man, he says. Who says that? The one who bribes other ministers. Now, are you guys gonna stop this? Look, be careful, I thank your two ministers, but we'll call the thief a thief, and you'll have to tell him. Have fear of God. How can you visit the house of God in the private plane of the man who delivers bribes? What kind of faith, what kind of understanding? Is that even a thing? Are they going to confession? Is there something in Islam we don't know about? Are you inventing a new religion, dear friends? This is all bullshit. There is serious interference in the judiciary right now. You should actually go tell the Prime Minister to clean up this mess, or we'll all get dirty or we'll clean you up. I mean, honestly, I'm asking you as a congressman, guys, open up a little bit, look at what's going on on the Internet. If you want me to -- I say my heart, I promise you in front of everyone -- come to me, and I'll tell you in all my nakedness, what happened. Dirty, wet... The man says: "I took the money to the branch office of the ministry of the EU in Istanbul." The bag was going to tear. I was afraid that I'd be humiliated because my office was going to spill money. I told the minister: Mr. Minister, carry this yourself. There's such a problem. There's such an outrage, my friends. I mean, it's not hypothetical. These are the things that are reflected in the file. So these proceedings will come, they will be read in this Parliament, they will be addressed to your conscience; you are the deputy of the nation, or you are defending the rights of thieves, and the Turkish nation will see this. And these ministers will go to the Supreme Court. If not today, he'll be gone tomorrow. But you send it. They sent them in the past, and Ozal sent them, and Demirel sent them, and Ecevit sent them. Don't do it, guys! To protect three five thieves...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0197par0121	Take your time. Let's see if the files come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0195par0122	He's not bringing it, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0197par0123	Take your time, he'll be here.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0195par0124	But look, my friend, Dear Congressman, you don't know the drill.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0197par0125	I know, I know... and I know the drill.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0195par0126	According to Article 107 of the Constitution, Article 107 of the Civil Code, this immunity does not go to the commission, it comes directly here, it is read here, and a decision is made to open the Parliament investigation. That's something else.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0197par0127	He'll come, he'll come...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0195par0128	So why doesn't he? Are you waiting for the election?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0198par0129	They're blacking out the evidence. They're stealing documents.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0195par0130	Look, whether these come or you forbid them, we're going to explain the paragraph every day from now on. Let's go!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0199par0131	Let's get the file cleaned up, and then he'll be back.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0195par0132	I'll explain the paragraph. You can't hide it. You can't ban our conversations. So you can't hide this shit either. I'm asking you to be the nation's deputy and support society to be rid of the filth. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0200par0135	Things we don't know about. You say you know, we say don't hurry, let him come.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0195par0136	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0201par0138	Thank you, Mr. Original. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The statement of "real and legal persons and institutions and organizations" in Article 9 of Article 9 of Law, which has been replaced by Article 93 of Law 524, shall be replaced as "real people" and shall be removed from the draft text of the 8th joke and propose that the following jokes be addressed accordingly. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0202par0145	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0201par0146	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0203par0150	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion in Article 93. I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to tell you a story of advanced democracy, if I may. If we don't want to hear a story, it's up to you, but I'll tell you your story. Once these Internet laws are enforced, some words, some concepts will be banned and censored; a complete censorship will revisit the environment. For example, the word "pot" will be banned. When you say "box"... it's forbidden to say "burun" during the Abdulhamid period because it's called Abdulhamid. Now, it can be banned because it's become symbolic concepts. Democracy represents a regime in which rights and freedoms as a political system are guaranteed by law, where criticism of those in power and those in power is guaranteed. Tolerance, tolerance, criticism. We need to know that democracy is a cultural position that must be internalized by all citizens, politicians and especially those in power. You've been in power alone for three semesters, but you haven't been a Democrat. I'd like to give you a short picture of a hundred and fifty years of our recent history here, where forward democracy has come from. When you say Abdulhamid, pressure, censorship, the detective period comes to mind, but so does Poet Ashraf, one of the great poets and satire poets of our literature. Ashraf, the poet, is a trustee who served at Abdulhamid's time, and his estate is chief -- I'm paying attention -- and he's a fellow citizen of Manisa. Now, I can't read the poems he wrote about Abdulhamid during the Abdulhamid era from this bench to you, my dear friends. If we search for many hours and days, the lightest of them are these: Those who see Vach-i mayon once love it, His head is like a pumpkin and his nose is like a badilcan. He says, "Padishaha." It's published in magazines, in books at that time, and it says for the Council of Ministers, for the Vukela Committee at the time: If I were to pull the trigger, I'd be a liar. Some say that the thief is evil, and some say that he is a prophet. Assref the poet says, and he hits the ground, he says to the padishah: You're not, Padişah, you're the owner of the estate to sell, Oh, you talk about cruelty and power and death. Now, this, a hundred and many years ago, my overlord can write this poem about a king. He's doing his duty, dying in Manisa, 1912. Now, this is 1947. It's what we call the 1947 National Chef Period. There are two prime ministers of our Republic history, one Recep Peker. In 1947 and September 7th, a public official, again, was published in books and journals, including Prime Minister Recep Peker. And Finance Minister Hasan Saka. It's a long poem. Eylül 7 did not fall upon my field, It's so dark, it's such a setup. Let's keep our tongues shut, let's keep our mouths shut. The Lord of Kashmirin has made us needy, This caravan doesn't go like this, Mr. Mori Recep. He says to the prime minister, and nothing happens to them. And now we've come to the second era of Recep, the first period of Recep. The second period was Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. He's got zero tolerance for criticism, and he's lost enough to get everyone off the news of the defendant and a leader of an opposition party out of the newscast and censored. We're dealing with a Prime Minister who insulted citizens, teenagers, workers, farmers, all social communities. I give you all my compliments to express my other views in the following article.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0204par0171	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0205par0174	They forgot our motion, Clerks.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0204par0175	I voted for him. You talked to him first.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0206par0176	You've spoken, Mr. Hasip.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0204par0177	No, I'm going to say 94, you interrupted me.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0206par0178	Yes, Mr. President, it's all right.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0204par0179	Reverends, I'm tired too, so you're tired too, but when you intervene, I take it seriously. Did I do it wrong? Now, the 94th article has three motions, two of which are the same, so I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9/A (8) be removed from the text of Article 8 of Article 9/A, which is envisioned to be added to Article 94 of Law Bill 524. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı Seyfettin Yılmaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Now, since I have two proposals that I'm going to read, I'm going to process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 94 of the current law bill 524 be completely removed from the bill. İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Altan Tan Abdullah Levent Tünzel Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Erdal Aksunger Muharrem Light Ramis Topal Aytuğ Atı Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0207par0203	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0204par0204	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Kaplan, please. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] I repeat, you've spoken in article 94; you've spoken in article 93. It sucks if you hear half of it and you don't get it. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0208par0211	Mr. President, this is a chapter on the protection of private life. Especially in 9/A. What we just discussed was the 9th article, and this is the 9th (A). Now, there was a blockage of access at nine, and there was a blockage of access to the content due to the privacy of private life in the 9th (A) of the 9th (A) of the 9th (A). Now, let's get a point out of this: What do you know when you say private life? I mean, it's a very broad concept, not just blackmail tapes. Anyway, those blackmail tapes are a very low-life attack, he doesn't target a person; he takes his family, he takes his community, he takes his values, he takes his group, he takes his party, he takes his political views, he takes them all. It has no place in morality, no place in law, no place in politics, no place in the race; it has no place anywhere. Whoever lays the ground for it, whoever it is, is in the deepest pit in the world; it's so obvious. There's no discussion of that; it's not acceptable in any state of law, or order, or even in the most backward tribal law. Now, when you say private life, there's privacy, there's provisions in a Constitution, there's 90, there's provisions in a contract, and there's provisions in our Turkish Penal Code. Now, I'm asking you, a broadcast has been broadcast and people have been victimized, citizens have been victimized in a decision made by the head of the TİB. And will the head of the TİB be responsible? No. Who's gonna let me? The minister must allow an investigation into him against the operations of the TİB. I mean, about the Undersecretary of MIT, the Prime Minister, and here, the minister has to give permission for office president. When you hire a bodyguard like that, it's called something different; it's discrimination law. Now, when we look from here, if we can't control the TİB, why is TİB overseeing it? Who's TİB controlling? Now, I'm not going to tell you a lot about private law, just... one, let me put it to you as a concept -- humiliation, ridicule, humiliation, humiliation; here you see it in the tabloids, often dating, making new lovers. Isn't that a private life, fellas? The congressman's leaving, and you're looking at a story the next day. It's private, isn't it? Look, the family, the house, the children of the person involved in the invasion of privacy, all in all, his profession, his work. Look at the concepts: isn't exposure a concept? Yeah. The sexist approach is an obscene concept in an attack on private life, isn't it? Yeah. We're moving on: curiosity, attracting attention, isn't that all? Yeah. Well, besides all that, if you'll notice, there's a mean word and a slang word, isn't there? That, too. Moving on: is there a resuscitation? I do. Any hate crimes? I do. Now, well, this is all very valuable stuff, friends. I'm asking you why you're removing the sentence we've made as a proposal of the law -- which I myself gave -- when the Turkish Penal Code was issued in violation of the privacy issue of Article 134, which was passed in 2012. The sentence in the Turkish Cypriot brings punishment and punishment for such publications. But what are you doing? You're bringing a fine against a court order. No, guys, you're breaking it up while you're doing it. That's not gonna fix it. This is a very serious mistake. You have to make this whole thing right. And by correcting any part of it, any substance, it becomes a very dangerous law, my friends. I'm saying good luck with that.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0209par0218	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On the other motion, Mr. Akçay, please.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0210par0220	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 94. I salute your honorable committee. These are Internet regulations, which are entirely based in power, aimed at protecting the Prime Minister and his environment, to strengthen the arbitrary and despot regime and to become the instrument of the empire of fear; arrangements that can also be used as a threat and blackmail device. Every time these issues are brought up, sir, on the basis of debates that have been going on here for a few days, they're talking about parallel structure, which is the instrument of parallel structure, and it's funny to hear from people who've been walking with parallel structure for 12 years, who've been running a lot of interpersonal activities together, so it's not believable or serious at all. I can tell you that my fellow members of the ruling party, if you fear God as much as you fear Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, stop these corruptions, all the unlawfulness.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0211par0226	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0212par0227	Shame on you! You're a grown man!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0210par0228	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0213par0229	Don't talk like that!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0210par0230	I address those who have a conscience.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0214par0231	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0213par0232	Look what you're talking about!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0210par0233	It's not working for you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0213par0234	Look at you!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0215par0235	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0210par0236	See, that, my dear friends, is how you touch an abscess. You have abscess, abscess, and you jump when you touch it.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0216par0238	That's a shame!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0217par0239	Shame, shame, what you're saying, you don't know what you're talking about.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0210par0240	Every moral, national value of the country, of the nation, has been taken underfoot, cursed, insulted, and no one has said a word about it.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0217par0241	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0210par0242	When you say "Recep Tayyip Erdogan," you jump right into the air.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0217par0243	Come on, listen to yourself!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0210par0244	Yeah, that's nothing but proof of my thesis.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0218par0245	Be careful what you say, if you have faith in God!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0210par0246	Dear lawmakers, with Article 94 of the bill... I swear to God, I'll tell you from this stand one thing at a time. ▪ Touching the prime minister is worship. Who calls it worship?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0219par0249	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0210par0250	Who's to say, "Allah carries all the adjectives?"
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0220par0251	Shame on you, look what you're saying!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0210par0252	Who wants to say grace? ▪ Who calls the second prophet?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0221par0254	Oh, man! Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0210par0255	It's all in you. Yeah, that's all it is, all of it.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0221par0256	You're not ashamed! Who said that?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0210par0257	We name names, they're all known.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0221par0258	Who said that? Shame on you! It's a shame, it's a shame!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0222par0259	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0210par0260	In Article 94, the valued MPs...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0222par0261	He speaks, my dear, he answers.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0223par0262	▪ Is there such a thing called the second prophet?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0224par0263	We deny all that.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0225par0264	He doesn't say, you say, you do.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0226par0265	Your former mayor of Aydın, your city council member, said this; they were spoken on these benchs. There are some who say harsher things, and I can't speak from this stand. If the time comes, they'll... [["Woe be the voices of the AK PARTY"]] Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0227par0268	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0228par0269	Mr. Orator, what you're saying is all wrong, this group doesn't accept.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0226par0270	Everything I say is true. It's all been discussed in public. This isn't what we made up, please.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0229par0271	That wasn't said from this stand!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0226par0272	It wasn't said from this bench, it was said in different environments.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0229par0273	Why did you say it was from this bench?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0230par0274	You're twisting it, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0231par0275	Turkey's largest group...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0232par0276	Didn't the AKP MPs, the deputy ministers, the Deputy Health Minister, say that according to our prime minister's circumcision? I mean, we didn't come here with a note.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0233par0277	Didn't he just tell you he's a straight congressman?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0234par0278	Didn't the MP load all of Allah's adjectives?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0232par0279	That's what you've always been told in various environments.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0235par0280	So is this all connected to our group, to the AK PARTY Group?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0232par0281	It does not matter what one person says, nor does it matter what two people say.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0235par0282	But, mercy, you blame us all.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0232par0283	But if you add ten or fifteen in a row, you're all tied up.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0235par0284	He won't!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0232par0285	None of you have ever objected.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0235par0286	Well, we are.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0232par0287	You're not objecting.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0235par0288	We object to all of them.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0232par0289	You will not object to me, you will object when told.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0235par0290	And then we did, and you don't want to hear it.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0232par0291	Many of them were rewarded, and you did not object.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0236par0292	Shame on you. Does it suit you?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0232par0293	Yes, it's a shame what you're doing, it's a shame what you're saying.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0236par0294	Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0232par0295	Dear lawmakers, there is no time to discuss our motion on Article 94. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0237par0298	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0238par0299	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0237par0300	Let me vote on these motions. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0239par0304	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0237par0305	Okay. Mr. Altay, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Akar, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Sarı, Mr. Acar, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Önör, Mr. Önder, Mr. Öçünük, Mr. I'll give you three minutes, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the same motions to your votes:
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0240par0316	I haven't talked to him yet.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0237par0317	Those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0240par0318	Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you, too.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0241par0319	Mr. President, I'm asking for a statement based on 60, and I've been picked on.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0237par0320	You will ask for your place according to 60. You will not be able to come here.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0242par0321	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0241par0322	I want him on the stand according to 69.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0243par0323	Mr. President, I'll be the one to discuss the matter.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0244par0324	No, wait a minute... I don't understand anything now.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0241par0325	Now, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0244par0326	Wait a minute... Now, first of all, I told your Deputy Director of the Group something.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0245par0328	There's more talk in 94, motions of the same nature...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0246par0329	We voted on the motion, we didn't vote on the clause.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0244par0330	Yes, Mr. Elitaş...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0246par0331	Mr. President, the speaker was just on the stand...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0244par0332	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0246par0336	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. We can criticize political party groups here, we can say all sorts of things, and unfortunately, it's gone out of control, and the insult is starting to go free.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0247par0338	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0246par0339	But, look, you're the trustees. We call it alhamdulillah, but no Muslim shows anything to be feared except his Lord, his Creator. You're going to get up, you're going to have to be as scared of God as you are of Recep Tayyip Erdogan to criticize this party. You're going to say something like that about a Muslim, and you're going to make a claim like that. You bring yourself to this point by running with your partner, paralleling yourself with the Creator.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0248par0341	Fear God, and fear God, Elitaş!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0246par0342	You don't know what you're talking about!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0248par0343	Indeed, you associate [others] with what you say.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0246par0344	You don't know what you're talking about! You don't know what you're talking about!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0249par0345	We've got a visual on the Mexicans! We've got a visual on the Mexicans!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0246par0346	Look, you used a statement about our congressman. Mr. President, I expect you'll be promising our congressman our friend in a moment, under your authority. He's a leader who's gathered all the good things that our congressman friend has ordered about a speech.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0249par0347	Where are the beauties?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0246par0348	Don't look for opportunities from such simple things!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0249par0349	What kind of metaphor is that, dear? He's got all the beauty of the heaven on him!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0246par0350	Create politics, politics! Make a speech, build a project!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0249par0351	Is that a lie? Who's doing the bidding, huh?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0246par0352	There's no project, but you come, you try to shoot something out of words, sentences.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0249par0353	I swear to God! I promise!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0246par0354	Don't do that!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0249par0355	There's no comparison like that! There's no comparison like that!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0246par0356	The opposition party will produce politics! You're going to come here, you're going to bring up the subject of a slip of the tongue of a congressman, and you're going to make it an agenda here! Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0249par0357	How dare you refer to this person's wrongs to His Holiness! You're running dirty!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0246par0358	If Mr. Gardener had heard it, I think he'd have pulled your ears. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0249par0361	How can you refer to this man's work, to the things that this servant has done?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0246par0362	Why do you keep yelling?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0250par0363	One second... one second... one second...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0249par0364	That's disrespectful! Of course I'll scream!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0250par0365	First, a mistake...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0251par0366	Did it hurt too much?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0249par0367	I will break your hand, not shout, against my religion, against my God!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0251par0368	Who's being insulted?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0249par0369	Yes, it's that obvious! It's that obvious!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0251par0370	Who's being insulted?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0249par0371	It's that obvious! He has gathered together all the good things of God! Look at that!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0252par0372	Now, about that...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0249par0373	Look at the look on your face!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0252par0374	Don't yell at each other because I don't hear anything. It's already...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0249par0375	What an analogy!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0253par0376	What a thing we've become!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0252par0377	Now, I, sir... one second...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0249par0378	Of course! That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0252par0379	Mr. Arslan, before I said, according to 60, you said...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0254par0380	According to 69...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0252par0381	Okay, now, about what? I don't understand, so...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0254par0382	It's still going...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0252par0383	I'm asking because I don't understand.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0254par0384	I haven't made a statement about it yet. Now, I'd like to make one statement and we'll be done with this. It's...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0255par0386	It won't close.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0252par0387	What's this about? (MHP rows) Wait a second... I really don't get it. Since I didn't mention a name, I couldn't figure out what it was for, because about your group, I'm Mr. Elitas...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0256par0389	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0252par0390	It's not about not making promises.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0256par0391	I understand, sir. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0252par0393	That's where he's going to file a report.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0256par0394	Speaking of our congressman, the speaker has made a speech...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0257par0395	Can't he tell his own story?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0256par0396	'...someone who said so said so, 'he said so.' There's also a misunderstanding in public. To let other lawmakers hear, to tell the truth...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0258par0397	I get it. I mean, I couldn't figure out what it was to pick on him. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0259par0401	Mr. President, you all know that 15 or 20 days ago, news to our press and television, and that's what Mr. Vural Bey is saying about something that's been brought up in our Parliament, as Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, as many times before, I've been missing a word from my mouth, as these speakers have said, that's not what I meant.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0260par0402	What happened to the clappers, why did they clap?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0261par0403	Then don't use it.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0259par0404	Wait a minute... Look, I never talked about it. Look...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0262par0406	What do you mean? Tell me about him.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0263par0407	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0264par0408	Congressmans, please... please, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0265par0409	That's not what I meant in this matter. I've been told over and over and over again by my members, our group's deputy presidents, and so has our vice president. And once again, that's not what I meant.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0266par0410	He just said it in his speech, Elistash.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0265par0411	I'm aware that it's a partnership, not to say it in tongues, but even to put it in your heart.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0266par0412	Shirk... shirk...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0265par0413	And I'm very sorry that this has been made political material, and I condemn it. I've told you over and over again that this is a partnership.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0267par0414	Good.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0265par0415	That's not what I meant. (Applause from MHP rows) But what saddens us is that we are sorry to have a person who calls such a subject "Muslim" because of such a lack of speech, to have politics over him, to be polymics over him because of such a lack of speech.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0268par0416	It's not politics. Stop right there.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0265par0417	Look, okay, you're right, thanks.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0269par0418	Don't go too far!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0265par0419	I've said it over and over again, and I've said it, and I've said it -- and I'm saying it again -- but I assure you, God does not want anyone to face that flaw. When you face something like that, we take good care of it, we take good care of it, I pay respect to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0270par0421	Just three days ago, when we were talking in the rally squares, not in private, but in general! The justice of the Lord...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0271par0422	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0272par0423	Mr. Akçay, just a minute.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0270par0424	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0272par0425	Sir?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0270par0426	Mr. President, what the congressman said on the stand earlier made it very clear and clear what Mr. Mustafa Elitas had fallen into. Thank you, Mr. Elitas. You have answered well.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0273par0428	What did he fall into?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0274par0429	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0275par0430	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0274par0431	In his speech, Mr. Elitaş also used the concept of "sharing as a partner," which means there's also an accusation that he accused me of polygamy and said that I was a fetal office or something.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0275par0432	No, Mr. Arslan didn't say anything to anyone, so I asked if you wanted it on him. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0274par0435	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, of course, I am not the ruling office. I am the chair of the religious affairs of the kingdom. In fact, I've asked several times, what does the Religion Work say about these words? Of course, it didn't make a sound. Mr. Elitaş, those words you say are truly grave. This claims to be a serious oasis, a warning, when you add all the words that some AKP executives and lawmakers have said down below. Now, yours actually contradicts the speech and explanation of the congressman just now. You're trying to keep up, the congressman said he's seditious. And we think it's okay, so there's no point in continuing it, I mean.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0276par0438	It's the same thing...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0277par0439	Where's the same thing? It's the same thing, isn't it?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0278par0440	It's the same thing, shame on you!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0279par0441	God does not associate anyone with Him. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0280par0444	How did you fall into the...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0281par0445	God does not try anyone by means of means of means. You're being opportunistic right now.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0280par0446	Don't make our religion, our God, our prophet, a tool for politics! Get your hands off me!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0282par0452	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9/A (8) be removed from the text of Article 8 of Article 9/A, which is envisioned to be added to Article 94 of Law Bill 524. Erdal Aksunger (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0283par0457	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0282par0458	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Aksinger, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I owe a debt to Mr. Aksunger, and no one will listen to him.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0284par0463	Yes, sir!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0282par0464	I'm kidding!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0284par0465	No, we'll hear it from the heart, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0282par0466	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Aksinger.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0285par0468	Thank you, Mr. President. 9/A is actually 9/A, 5651 is 9/A, so 5651 shouldn't be what I said it would be, but 9/A is a total freak job. Why the freak thing? In fact, it's almost guaranteed to form a court of law, however. I've just asked my friends, and I've actually asked the lawyer friends in your AK PARTY group, and I said, "Why is the president of the TİB who's involved in this being given this authority, and why isn't a prosecutor being given this authority?" Why isn't it given? So if there's a lack of a prosecutor, there could be 40 prosecutors there, the IT prosecutor. There are four IT prosecutors in Ankara, so let's make it 40. Let him decide in 24 hours, and let the judges decide in 24 hours. Is there a problem with that? I don't think so. But why is it insisted on? So the problem here is giving authority to a bureaucrat, that's the problem.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0286par0470	He's going to trial again.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0285par0471	It's about whose side he went to judgment. It's not a big deal, as you can see on 8/A, it says that he can object to the court's decision one way or another. Where does he object? He's contesting the verdict. Anyone can do it to him, no one is a victim, let him do it. Why is the president of TİB doing this? The victim should do it anyway. If you're going to do this by court-martialing, there's gonna be a need for residency courts, but I can't tell you about these residency courts. Why? I can't tell this country because it sees what's going on in private court. Is there one in Europe? I do. We don't need these anyway, but I've already told you about the 8th article, and I told you last night, unfortunately, it doesn't mean anything because we talked about it in the morning. There are catalogue crimes in Article 8, aren't those crimes beyond catalog crime? Aren't those in criminal law? I do. Well, there's no racism in catalog crime, there's no terrorism, there's going to be other treatment for these when they're on the Internet, and there's going to be another TİB president. What kind of contradiction is that? That's where the problem is. But, of course, we can't say that we can't ask for the establishment of residency courts, like in advanced democracies, because we're subject to interpretation of the law, and that's where the problem is. There was a lot of digital evidence, a lot of evidence brought to the prosecution, which led to a lot of people lying around. So, I don't think the law is going to reach the final decision-making authority of the residency courts in developed countries, and I think that's where the problem is. So you can do something like this -- that's what we're suggesting -- if you're going to do something like this, so it's a choice that we don't have, 9/A is already weird, but there can be a change in the Penal Code. We said that last night in the morning, and I'm not a lawyer, but that's something the lawyer friends would approve of. With a change here, I.T. prosecutors can decide in 24 hours on the matter, and this is given 24 hours later, wherever the court is in charge, if this is a civil court, it will be sent to a court of punishment, and if this is a criminal court, it will be sent there. Well, why is there an objection to that? There should be no objection to that. So it's pointless to put the president of the TİB under such suspicion. I blame the minister, I blame the president of the TİB. This is all going to happen in this country tomorrow. That's why you need to get back from this as soon as possible. Now, here's what happens. Now that the TİB has already been converted, where is it going to take men, anyway? So the lawyer's gonna get it? No. The law says something like that, but I think most of these will be taken from the MIT, which will be assigned to the TİB. We'll live, we'll see, we'll see, we'll see. Over 100 people are also told to receive contracted personnel, which means that there is a wide range of internet special courts on the judiciary, such as a private internet court, where all the duties and powers of the court have been transferred. These are all problems, guys. If you don't take care of these things, they'll still be enough material for our conviction at the European Court of Human Rights, one way or another. That's what we're saying today, but it'll all come back. There'll be objections. Also, I would say very quickly about the MIT: there is a budget for $1 billion, and there is a grant for the Prime Minister. The MIT has been transformed into an anonymous company. It has been transformed into a company with no record of $2 billion in capital, and the Prime Minister has a company. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0287par0479	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are agreed. There are two motions in Article 95. I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the information consciousness from the draft text, which is part of Article 95 of the current law bill 524. Emin Haluk Ayhan Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı Seyfettin Yılmaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and offer both the liberalisation of the Internet for users, and the publicization of the Internet, and the technical security of the Internet, after the statement to provide co-operation and co-ordination with international institutions in the field of information and internet (f) under the framework of Article 10 (F) of Law Number 524 under Article 95 of the Common Law Bill, which is considered. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aytuğ Atı Muharrem Ilk Erdal Aksunger Ramis Topal Riza Turmen Mr. Commission, do you accept?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0288par0496	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0287par0497	Do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Turmen, please.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0289par0500	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the purpose of changes intended by Law 5651 is clear. Obstruction of corruption claims on the Internet is intended to drown corruption claims instead of investigating them. I understand that, but those who did this, those who wrote this didn't think about the impact of these changes on the outside world, on the international field, and they didn't figure out what kind of trouble these changes would put Turkey in. I want to talk very briefly about human rights violations caused by change proposals because there's a set of human rights violations and a set of violations of the Constitution. For example, the first is the Union of Accessors. It is mandatory to join the Access Providers Association. Payment is mandatory; it is called non-membership, non-functional. Sir, this is against the 33rd Amendment concerning the freedom of the Constitution to form an association. It is said that no one can be forced to become a member. In the same way, it is contrary to Article 11 of the European Court of Human Rights on the freedom of association. In addition, content providers, locators are obliged to give TİB all personal data requested by the TİB. This information, this personal information, is given to the TİB, while the individual, the user, doesn't even know about it, it's weird. The introduction of such information to the TİB is a violation of the privacy of private life, and Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights is a violation of Article 20 of the Constitution. Now, when you look at the proceedings of the European Court of Human Rights, it's so important to protect personal data that the collection of personal data without permission is also an intervention in private life. After that, even if the collection is right, it's a separate intervention in privacy. Put all this aside, gathering, hiding aside, giving private data to a third person would lead to a separate violation of human rights. Third, there is a violation of Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights (Islamic Rights) freedom of expression, violation of Article 26 of the Constitution. The vague statements used in the bill, sir, there, can be done using similar methods of blocking access. What are such methods, which are unclear? No, sir, in the same manner, the publications are banned by the TİB. The alternative means of access are unclear. The use of such vague expressions deprives the law of what it should have in the state of law. This is another violation of freedom of thought. The court of justice of peace is authorized. All of this, sir, is a violation of the court's right to a fair trial because the court of justice will decide on the grounds that access is blocked by the TİB on the charge of violation of private life. The TİB is granted unlimited powers, freedom of expression, and there is no legal way to apply to those who have been violated. This is a violation of Article 40 of the Constitution concerning the lack of effective application. The European Convention on Human Rights is a violation of Article 13 of Article 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights. So as you can see from all of this, there's a ball of violations. Finally, there is a recent report by Freedom House, which says: "These changes give government officials the authority to shut down their websites without a judicial decision. The European Convention on Human Rights is a major violation of the Treaty of Human Rights. This is the appearance of the outside world. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0290par0512	Thank you, Mr. Specten.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0291par0515	Mr. President, let's do a roll call so we can liven up.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0290par0516	Yeah, that'd be great. We're doing roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Asşi, Mr. Akar, Mr. Çirmen, Mr. Kürükturk, Mr. Ören, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Acar, Mr. Morğul, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Preker, Mr. Atici, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Aydın. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the information consciousness from the draft text, which is part of Article 95 of the current law bill 524. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0292par0533	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0290par0534	Government? We don't agree. Mr. Honey, here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0293par0538	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The bill we're talking about is a government bill that raises concerns and raises serious concerns. Here, two groups of rights and freedom conflict. In his first group, the protection of personal rights and freedoms, the protection of private life, in parallel with freedom of expression, freedom of opinion, freedom of political opinion, freedom of political action, freedom of public information, the duty of the press to report and the freedom of the press and the freedom of the press. All of these, valued lawmakers, are rights and freedoms that have been balanced by the democratic values that humanity has developed. If the balance is disturbed, then the regime will either go to dictatorship, and the censorship device in the dictatorship's hands will go into action, or people's rights and freedoms will become unsustainable, and there will be victims of basic rights and freedoms. So, these have been discussed in the Constitutional Compromise Commission, a certain consensus has been reached, and this matter that has been drawn up in order for this agreement to continue needs to be resolved between the government and the political parties, which is sitting with my mind and has the most serious problem in Turkey, which has driven each of our people to the deepest concerns and concerns. But that's not how it's done -- and I've just told the Minister -- instead, with this bill in great haste, the third leg of the three-legged press that can't be controlled is being put into the government's command, its will. The first leg of the press was visual press; the AKP declared a significant part of its balance, a friend, under orders and rule in 11 years. So much so that Mr. Prime Minister calls from Morocco and does not tolerate a statement from Mr. President-in-Chief on the subtitles of the televisions, violating press freedom worse than the Abdulhamid era, which has been accepted or expressed as the period. So that's how the visual media on the first leg of the press was handled. What newspaper do you come from? Let the bosses think you're coming. In the form of the Prime Minister himself, the Prime Minister's threat. All that remains is what we call Twitter, Facebook, the Internet world. Here's the offer that was brought in to get him to take over. My dear friends, Twitter, Facebook and other virtual spaces are a very important resource for people to share freedom of expression, freedom of thought, information transformation, and it is the greatest example of antidemocratic, dictatorship, which is to be closed to public because of the December 17th corruption, theft operation, to prevent the removal of audio recordings, recordings, or control of power. Therefore, it is the duty of this Parliament to prevent it, and first, it is the duty of AKP MPs. If you don't clean up this mess, if you own this mess, then you take it personally, institutionally. Three or five of your friends can do wrong. Your friend who's just made a mistake, he's come out of the blue, but if you take care of him as a group, you'll stand here as a means of building the dictatorship, on the verge of a reckoning you can't afford to give to the nation. Therefore, let the government draft this bill, which is a major problem for Turkey's virtual media... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to assess human rights violations, violations of rights and freedoms, constitutional rights and freedoms, along with their balances in the other field, and make it a legal text with my mind. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0294par0547	Thank you, Mr. Honey. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 96, there are two proposals of the same nature: I will have them read and processed, and if anyone wishes to speak, I will make him speak. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ninety-six of the current bill of law. We request that the item be removed from the text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İzzet Cet Musa Çam Omar Süha Aldan Müslim Sarı Aydın Agha Ayayadın The signatures of the other motion are: Yusuf Halaçoğlu Muharrem Varlı Mustafa Kalaycı Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Haluk Ayhan Erkan Akçay Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0295par0563	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0294par0564	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Now, first Mr. Aldan, please.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0296par0568	Thank you. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in fact, one of the most important articles of the law is to make arrangements for the Internet. First of all, unless Turkey is made a leading country on traffic change points, then unless the Bill on the Protection of Personal Data goes through this parliamentary agenda or the Cyber Crimes Agreement is still discussed in this Parliament, that law has no meaning. In fact, you have to look at it this way: this arrangement is part of an operation. We see today in the visual media that news is now being taken off the agenda by the Prime Minister's instructions. Besides, there's a release going on to the businessmen, so the media is under control. The amount of punishment for violation of the Law on Meetings and Show Marches is increased by the law, which is supposed to be called "democratisation," so the people on the street are under control. Besides, with the HSYK arrangement, the trial is under control. The police are in control of the task force's decontaminations. Perhaps tomorrow, the military is under control by the arrangement linking the Prime Minister with the order of the next Chief of Staff and the commanders of the force to investigate, and ultimately, with this arrangement, the social media is being controlled. That's what it's all about. Besides, there's one thing that needs to be focused on: the privacy of private life. The privacy of private life depends on the individual. For example -- let's give an example from Mr. Prime Minister -- before the 2011 elections -- before the 2011 elections -- on May 5, 2011 -- in Kastamonu, Mr. Prime Minister gave a speech to the candidates from the MHP. Is something going on with his wife, and it's special? It's not private, it's general, it's general. It's common immorality. He says, "The authority goes into people's privates." Why? 'Cause they got a tape of their own guys. You'll have your hand, your tongue, your waist, he says.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0297par0572	Oh, God is great!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0296par0573	On December 7, 2013, the same Prime Minister gives a speech in Tekirdağ (Tekirdağ) on the publication of some classified documents that have been troubling him in the Yanya newspaper: The state has such privacy that no one has the right to expose them or expose them. People have their own privates, and no one has the right to expose them, he says. From where to where! Therefore, given the subjective view of even the Prime Minister's privacy, it is a grave mistake to give all authority to the president of the TİB, to a representative of the executive body. The most important thing about this is authorising the judiciary. And we're dealing with something even more interesting: institutions and rules in government are fundamental, but today, trust officials have become fundamental, so the government has been handed over to the government. The Undersecretary of MIT is responsible for everything. The president of the TİB is now in charge of very important things; he is now the only mechanism to decide on where private life is at. In addition, the entire Anadolu Agency is being handed over to a general manager in this arrangement. What is this? The person, the General Manager of the Anadolu Agency, has an important stake in the Anadolu Agency, or the President of the TİB is being transformed into the person who decides the coming point in people's private lives. My dear friends, this is a law of escape and panic, in fact, a law of closure. But let's not forget that those who come with the cash register go with the counting machine. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0298par0578	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz, please come in on the other motion.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0299par0580	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group following our motion on Article 96. I salute you all. Very valuable lawmakers, we're trying to close some cases with this censorship bill brought in today. Now I want to tell you, look at the point where your last sense of taking over everything comes to. When you came to power in 2002, there was no media power behind you, if I'm not mistaken, a Channel 7 and a New Dawn newspaper or something.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0300par0582	No, it wasn't that either.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0299par0583	But you, to this nation, to the poor poor, to the strange guruba, I am the voice of the silent masses. You came to power with votes of 36, 48, 50 percent. But as you came to power, you began to feel strong, and in the February 28th, you were able to do whatever you were suffering from, whatever problems you were having, whatever criticism you were having. Now you're moving away from the nation, away from the citizens, entering the center of some power centers, and as long as you have the power focus, you think you're going to be strong in Turkey, but you'll see that you're wrong. Look, I'm telling you, clearly and clearly, if you had said on December 17th and December 25th in a corruption operation: "O Turkish justice, O Turkish police, we trust you, nothing has passed through our throats. There's nothing Turkish and Turkish police can do, I'm telling you. And this Prime Minister, who's going to frame the Prime Minister's son, who's going to frame a cop, who's going to frame a prosecutor, if you like your God! They put the world in his head, the world. You wouldn't be nervous if you went out and said, "These are not there." And you didn't take care of those who were involved in the theft. Democracy has to be dominated, if you think you can get away with it by avoiding democracy, by running away from democracy, you can't get away with it, dear friends. Because you came here because people believed in you, and you came with prayers. Look, you said that poor poor, strange guruba. There's a lot of clean people in there. Why would you take care of thieves, dear friends? Why are we going to take care of thieves? Let's clean up the thieves inside us, clean up the cheeky ones inside of us. If we'd just come out and hand over the thief, the cheeky, to the courthouse, we wouldn't have had all this trouble today. Today we're shouting, 60 billion dollars in damage, 100 billion dollars in damage. But don't you think about what is our fault in this loss if you love your God? I mean, how are you going to ignore all the prosecutor's indictments? Can't you see where you've come from? Can't you see you're moving away from democracy? You will uphold democracy. So someone's going to steal, someone's going to take it, but the people in you who are pure are going to pay the price and the trouble of taking care of it. So I'm telling you clearly: go to Anatolia, you have to explain to Anatolian geography that this theft and corruption has not been committed to people who vote for you from the clean, white milk of their mothers. Now, the Justice Department has returned the proceedings, sir, the prosecutors are being replaced, the police are being replaced. And I ask you: If you love your God, who in this country can unjustly blame the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0301par0588	He's guilty, he's guilty.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0299par0589	Who can unfairly judge the Prime Minister and the Minister in this country? If you love God, place your hand on your conscience and answer. But if the Prime Minister is involved in corruption, he will answer. That's the way it is in our religion, and that's the way it is in our law. If the minister's involved in corruption, he'll pay for it. I mean, why do you have to defend the congressman, the citizen who voted for him, who didn't have an ounce of money at his throat? You're having media wars. You're looking for a parallel government. There's the parallel media. You created parallel media, parallel media. You've created parallel NGOs. You put a man in charge of every media organization. It's the Prime Minister, like, Farc, or something. I mean, that kind of media. How far do you think you'll go with lawlessness and injustice? Remember, you come in prayer, you leave with a prayer. Rest assured, you'll be looking for your days with wax. Therefore turn from error, and stand not by iniquity, and be in the face of iniquity. It is fitting, and it is the right thing to do. Thank you. My respects.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0302par0594	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three proposals in Article 97. I'll have them read and processed in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the statement of the chair of telecommunications, which was proposed in Article 524 after Article 5651 of Article 4 of Article 5 of the Common Law Proposal 524 shall be changed into the Chair of Technical Communication, which will include all the interests of this presidency. Osman Oktay Ekşi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Ramis Topal Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion makers, or I'm going to have them read their reasons. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 524th article of the proposed bill be removed from the draft text of the bill. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Altan Tan The signatures of the other motion are: Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Seyfettin Yilmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı Do you agree with the motions, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0303par0620	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0302par0621	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0304par0623	Why?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0305par0624	Why don't you tell us why we should join?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0306par0625	Read the reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0307par0626	I'm reading the reason: If the institution staff commits a crime, it is a practice in autocracy to give permission to the head of the institution and the minister, to be granted immunity, as in the MIT law, to not be judged if the fixed ones are not allowed, to be put on trial, to prevent a fair trial. Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0308par0631	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, this material is bringing in a new shield. So, now, the Undersecretary of MIT has come to protect, and now the President of Telecommunications Communications. We've been arguing a lot up there. I don't understand this business, the Chief of Staff of this country is inside, the Joint Chiefs of Staff are inside, at least we're not saying all of them, but at least if you'd done it fair, or at least with the Prime Minister's permission. I mean, there's protection until Telecommunications Communications President, the Chief of Staff isn't on trial. The Chief of Staff is not on trial in the Supreme Court, you leave it in the hands of two judges. I'm having a hard time understanding that. Why am I having such a hard time? You're talking about Kumpas. Dear friends, Dear Minister, if there is a plot, why don't you put the Chief of Staff there and put it there, and I don't understand.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0309par0635	He's coming, he's coming.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0308par0636	So what are you afraid of? I don't understand why you didn't stop the broadcasts while you were plotting against everyone, but now you're protecting the president of the TİB because of the courts that will open when you stop broadcasting about yourself. These plots were set up for everyone. We've asked over and over again, is there justice in this country? Why? Why didn't you stop them while the sheets were being printed? Isn't there a telecommunications communications president then? The indictments against everyone, the subject of private life in the indictment, which has nothing to do with the investigation, with the permission to listen, were published in sheets and sheets and websites, so why didn't you make the law? You didn't have a majority, or you didn't think about it? Really, these are very important issues. I wonder where you were then. We asked here if there was a leak? We told Mr. Secretary, whether he's leaking out of town, leaking out of court, leaking out of the system, giving out by prosecutors? We said, "Who's giving him?" We said, "There's no answer." What kind of law state would that be? And when he came unto me, the guard came unto thee, and God brought his work unto thee, and when thou didst come forth, he was at the mercy of judges and prosecutors. Dear friends, there can't be a double standard, there can't be a shield like that. Whatever law is applied to other bureaucrats... it's a high-level bureaucrat. The state of the Republic of Turkey has a State Officers Act, a Government Service Guide. It's obvious who's in charge there, and we put indicators on it, and they get paid accordingly. There are 7,000 areas, 6400 spaces, 3600 spaces; how do you put them? The nature of the work. So, now, how do you fit the shield? If he touches us, if he has trouble with them, let us protect them; but if he does not touch us, let him go. Therefore, this substance is a very harmful substance here. There's no regulation in the law, no regulation based on the circumstances. It's against the principle of generality. It's a legal massacre to do such a thing. Now that I'm here, I wonder, why is this material really needed? We asked upstairs, we asked Mr. Secretary, but I can see between the lines, and there's always more news. In connection with the bugs in the Prime Minister's house, the President of the Inspection Board has completed the investigation. When? A year later. More or less, from what I've read in the media... now, oh, that's why this stuff came in. These insects have some information that should not be leaked. Now, you still... changed it. Well, friends, let alone the prosecutor you haven't replaced, there's no judge left, there's no police chief you haven't moved, I still don't understand why you're afraid. I don't see how anyone's going to get this information and leak it. If the investigation isn't legal, you can do it without securing the necessary procedures. On the one hand, you're going to stand here... and I think it's about the bugs in the Prime Minister's house, and they're going to come to me through him. There's something about his son Bilal Erdogan, whom he calls, Bilal Erdogan, who is so bitter that the law is coming.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0310par0639	Yeah, and they put the bug there.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0308par0640	Look, we've supported a lot of the stuff in the law, a lot of things related to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, a lot of things related to the disabled, and we've supported all the opposition parties here, but this bag has become a mess, and everything that needs to be done, it's irrelevant, it's irrelevant. Please, come, let's stop killing the law. Let's do the law, murder the law, and get this rule of law to limit personal freedoms only when they're damaged for you. I expect you to support our motion, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0311par0644	Thank you. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the statement referred to in Article 524, which will include all the activities of this presidency, shall be replaced by the Chair of Technological Communication, which shall include all the areas of this presidency. Osman Oktay Soshi (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0312par0651	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0311par0652	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Sour, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0313par0656	Mr. President, the bill we're talking about, the bill we're discussing is actually a bill of countless wrongs in terms of freedom of communication and the communications world. For once, it's an extraordinary antidemocratic joke. Earlier, our dear friend Reza Turmen, who spoke before me, reminded Turkey that the European Court of Human Rights had been sentenced to antidemocratic provisions of Law 5651, which is now in effect, but you are trying to make it even worse, and that it was recommended by the European Court of Human Rights to change it in terms of democratisation. You've brought here a bill of law of the opposite nature, and I'd also like to say that you've brought a bill that's bad enough, not just in reverse, but in terms of democratization, to be found in the sense of antidemocratization, to be a very rare one. Some of my friends before me have made some points. For example, they mentioned that the decision to be taken from a prosecutor by a government official named Telecommunications Communications President was made worse by increasing power, by making it worse than the previous one. This is one of many wrongs, as I have just said, the statement of the Telecommunications Communication Presidency. Why? My dear friends, telecommunications is a concept that means communication with telephone, radio, telegraph and television, if you look at ligaments or look at other sources. When you call it Telecommunication Communication Presidency, you put the concept of communication into the same name twice, so in a sense you're calling it radio, television, telegraph and telecommunications, communications presidency. I'm not personally convinced that this is an acceptable part of Turkish. So, as I have suggested in our proposal, if it is called the head of technical communication, it is a concept and a correct name that includes both radio, television, telegram, telephone, and the world of communication. That's the first thing I'd like to bring to your attention. Second: My dear friends, this bill requires that a unit called the Union of Compulsors be formed. I'm not going in because I don't have time to go into detail, but there is one in Italy in 1928. In Italy, it was founded in Mussolini under the name of "Aleo Professionale" and put the membership of members of the industry as a condition of working in the industry, just like ours. A similar one was established in 1938 as the Press Union, and the media of the period -- of course, there is no sense of media at that time -- has literally put the press world into the oppressive understanding of the single party period, and in 1946, this union has been mixed with the rebellion of journalists. What you're doing now, knowingly or not, is bringing back the Press Association, which happened in Turkey with the history of the Mussolini era, with the Aleo Professionale. It would be a shame for all of us to take part in this law. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0314par0662	Thank you, Mr. Sour. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two proposals in Article 98. I'll have them read and processed in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the terms of the Article 524 of the law under Article 98 of the current law shall be used primarily in the service of the Telecommunication Communication Presidency. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı Seyfettin Yılmaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 98 of the current bill of law. We request that the item be removed from the text. Aydın Ağan Ayyadın İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Musa Pine Durdu Özbolat Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0315par0679	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0314par0680	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0316par0681	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0314par0682	Mr. Ozbolat, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0317par0684	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on Article 98 of Law Bill 524. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear friends, in every country where corruption and poverty and exploitation rise, the police state also rises and becomes the dominant form of governance. This has happened all over the world, unfortunately that's the case in Turkey. In our country, the control roads of the House are blocked, neutralized, and even criminalized. The independence and neutrality of the judiciary have been destroyed, and any opposition, including the media, has been "trafficker" and "puller," and even opposition to the current government has been considered a crime. Turkey is no longer a state of law, nor is it a state of law, but a police state. These facts can't be hidden by putting the law in a bag. Dear friends, there was a decree of censorship and exile issued in 1990, you all remember. In a proper analogy, the decree of the SS was referred to. The rulers of the period stopped, gathered, banished, kept, and lost in custody for days. The bill in front of us is nothing more than the modern version of this decree. Our disabled citizens, our needy citizens, unfortunately, have been used as a cover of this bill against the fundamental human rights and freedoms, that's all. See, a member of the MIT is appointed head of Telecommunication Communications. After that, the TİB, given unlimited powers to block access to the Internet, is rewarded with immunity to the National Intelligence Agency. ▪ The task of Internet gendarmeship is given to the TİB to block the right to learn and communicate the truth, hiding behind fancy words such as the violation of private life. The minister and Telecommunications Communication Chairman are also appointed prosecutors, as it is predicted to record all activities conducted on the Internet through this regulation, authorizing the Telecommunications Communication Presidency to shut down the judiciary and block access. The authority to block TİB personnel and president granted immunity is nothing more than to create a new AKP intelligence agency for which it is exempted from direct judicial control. Therefore, the bill is the AKP's censorship and exile decree. According to the AKP's private law, the crime element will be identified and the alleged criminal will be punished in various ways. Dear friends, the power that seeks to cover up their own crimes has been recklessly determined to take life and execution into a monopoly. We can't explain a mindset that even prohibits the publication of the question motion with just the word "captive." It's more than censorship; it's the law that's censored, it's democracy, it's justice. Investigating the activities of power, not only investigate, but even the general political criticism of this bill is now officially banned. After this stage, unwritten laws will be passed, under political and personal interests, and secret laws will be enforced. The goal here is not to protect private life, but to eliminate the law to protect private interests. It has been the AKP's new strategy to bypass the law and make everything work. Dear friends, illegal activities, such as the unlawful listening of communications among individuals in violation of the law during the period of AKP governments, claiming to be trying to protect privacy, have been made normal and legitimate, such as video or audio recording of the private life of a citizen at all levels, including lawmakers. The last ten years of Turkey have shown the truth that listening has become more than just a means of political reckoning than judicial needs, used to reshape both opposition and social, economic life. In the research commissions established on the subject, despite the efforts of our friends, the matter has been closed. For example, police officials have informed the commission that six of the 11 listening devices found in Turkey have disappeared, and two of the missing vehicles have been used by one mayor, while the other four have been used by political structures again for private and unregistered listening, but unfortunately they have not yet been found. This, democracy and justice, is not an application we will accept.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0318par0693	Thank you, Mr. Ozbolat. III. (PHP 4 = 4.0.6, PHP 4)
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0319par0696	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0318par0697	Yes, there's a request for roll call. Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Halici, Mr. Sourshi, Mr. Gök, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Ekici, Mr. Impulsion, Mr. Öncer, Mr. Altay, Mr. Özbolat, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Költurk, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Young, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Turmen, Mr. Turman, Mr. Turk, Mr. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the terms of the Article 524 of the law under Article 98 of the current law shall be used primarily in the service of the Telecommunication Communication Presidency. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0320par0713	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0318par0714	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0321par0715	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0318par0716	Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0322par0718	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we have here an offer on the staff of the Telecommunications Communications President. In this article, there's only one interesting thing -- there's another item that comes right behind it -- it mentions the list of additional (2), the head of the agency, the legal advisor, the engineer, your computer business, the officer -- we're already taking 45 people. I mean, that's how it works, I couldn't figure it out. So, there's another one about the officers who were taken into protective custody, and the next one says, well, why don't you put it in here, and then bring it in the next item, sir, and you can't go five times as far as the price ceiling to hire a contractor, you can't go through 75 people? We don't know if he has an expert or an expert of 75 or if he can't get it to work. On the one hand, you're offering a regular staff, and then we're going to hire people with contracts and high salary... I don't know if that's going to provide employment for some of the friends you're going to take care of. There's a way the government works, I just said, there's a State Officers' Law, there's a government staff regime, and there's a State Staff President. I can't get out of this system. We've said so many times, come -- whatever it takes -- do a government staff regime reform, define institutions if you're going to do it. A patch every day. Every person who comes in -- we do it in a budget -- comes out of the agency's law. You changed the laws of the organization of all institutions just two years ago under the law. You've put everything you've asked for in all institutions without us knowing, and now they're illegal because it's supposed to come to Congress and Plan and Budget Commission, and it still hasn't come to us. If you remember -- our friends from the last semester will know -- here, in 2011, before the election, we had an argument when we left, so there's no authority, you just take it off. He'll have to bring it to the council and get it approved, but he'll refuse, but he'll accept, but he'll change it. Now, as far as that goes, you guys get casts, every time you come in, you want a new cast, and we're having a hard time understanding that. Guys, now, that's a double standard. You're doing a double standard in the law we just told you about here in the staff business. So, yesterday, if you remember -- there are friends who aren't here, let me show you again -- I showed you the appreciation that the contractors sent over. Now, these are waiting, your government, the Prime Minister, the ministers, there are promises about the 4/C people, there are words about subcontractors, there are a lot of words about employees. While they're here, we're taking out a contract in addition to the staff here. Isn't that unfair? Really, I don't have time to get too involved in how bad they are now, but they prescribed it here, and they gave you the cure. But, sir, every time we patch up every institution like this, there are ten counselors......why? There may be friends here whom we have relieved of duty. We are returning to the financial institution. Why is it so much foreign counsel? We've got friends here, they're being taken to court if we don't send them on assignment. Such a staff system, such a work system, there's no employment system. Dear friends, look, I mean, so many people are waiting, they're at the door, they've given you a report card. We're looking, they didn't get any good grades from any of them, so it's business, it's work, it's work, it's safe work. So we're looking at it, so let's at least consider it, let's solve these things here without being unfair. Come on, you've got guys you've been favoring, but at least give this to the others. Four times the salary, really... now, for the next article, our friends, you'll see, it's about the motion. The fee for these will not exceed five times the price of the contract for those employed according to Law 657/B. Why? Why would it be five times? That's what I'm trying to tell you, or who's going to work with 75 people? Are you going to hire outside experts, foreign people, international people? We need to explain these matters. Otherwise, we don't have a chance to achieve work peace, justice between employees, social unrest, it's already happening. Come on, let's get these out of here more properly, and again, when we're trying to establish justice and law here, he says, let's not cause injustice again, I expect you to support our motion, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit05spe0323par0724	Thank you, Mr. Günal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0323par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 524. The commission is here. The government is here. There are three motions in Article 99: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "tents" be added after the declaration of Article 99 of the current law bill 524. Kemalettin Yılmaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Seyfettin Yılmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "five times" of the 524th amendment to the "double" of the statement in Article 99 of the current law bill. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Altan Tan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 40 more prosecutors' staffs in the Ministry of Justice have been paid under the name of the Justice Department in order to prevent IT crimes in Turkey and to ensure that the fight against these crimes is quick and swift." We offer and offer to change it into form. Erdal Aksunger Muharrem Light Ramis Topal Aytuğ Atı Kadir Gökmen Öğüt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0324par0027	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0323par0028	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0325par0029	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0323par0030	Mr. Reminder, here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0326par0032	Dear President, I have made a promise on the 99th Amendment. 40 other prosecutors' staffs in the Ministry of Justice have been required in order to prevent IT crimes in Turkey and to ensure that the fight against these crimes is quick and fast by removing the text found in Article 5651 in Article 2 of Law." We demand that it be changed into form. The uncertainty in personnel will lead to arbitrary practices. A new step towards becoming a police state will step forward if the staff becomes a security guard. The immunity armor brought into these ranks is highly ill-advised. Like everywhere else, there will be a police state in the virtual world, and the law will be put under the table. There will be more pressure and fear in the virtual world. The way to create a new parallel MIT will be opened. In addition, it is stated that the fees and other matters for employees to be employed in this way are under the authority of the Council of Ministers and that the payment will not exceed 5 times the salary of employees working at a contracted status under the Law on State Officers No. 657. Five times the salary of current personnel is about $18,000. Dear MPs, today is the 77th anniversary of the introduction of six of our party's principles to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. Republicanism, nationalism, publicism, stateism, secularism and speechism, which are the principles of the Republican People's Party, is stated in February 5, 1937 as the basic attributes of the state of the Republic of Turkey. However, the republicanism of a government that strives to prevent the celebration of Republic Day, but is unable to achieve it with the ownership of the people; the nationalism of a government that leaves its own citizens in need of outsiders -- a prime minister and its own workers, its own farmers, its sergeants, its experts; the poverty of the people from each family, 5-5 -- who want to separate it from the hatred-dur-dindar -- by their speech and practice, to create the tension of Alevi-Sunni; we are not waiting for each other to create a special state; we are not waiting to make its own a state, its own pensioner, its farmer, its farmer, its sergeant, its expert, every country's entire community, to create a state; we are not waiting for a state of society; we are not waiting to make its own a new state; we do not to make its own a state --state; we don't want to do everything --statement -- Dear MPs, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, at a meeting of his party the other day, dared to say that every step they took as the AKP government, every word they said, every deed they did, they paid for it with honor, the judiciary will reveal what they did, as parties, they had nothing to do with it. These explanations and repeated parallel construction rhetorics will not be enough to save anyone who had anything to do with it, no matter what titri. A new one is added daily to the audio recordings where corruption and bribery are documented. Blackmail has even infiltrated justice. Who is the parallel state, Prime Minister? When did these parallels emerge? When your son was called to testify, did the prosecutors become parallel? When the detentions touched your ministers and your families, did they create parallel police chiefs? In January 2009, there are laws in Turkey, democracy, established system, established institutions, rules. In this country, the idea is free, the conscience is free, there are judges. Again, Mr. Bali Yıldırım, who was Minister of Transport at the same time, was referring to phone wiretapping criticism, and was giving a fatwa saying, "Don't be afraid to rest if you don't have the wrong job, if you don't have the illegal job, don't be afraid to talk as much as you want." Five years later, the idea of that day was free prosecutors today's parallels? As you have not been able to bring to the House for 40 days, you have not even dared to be exonerated and have been sent back to your ministers by the prosecutors you praised. You have not learned from the words of those who have been imprisoned in persecutions for five years, not by forgiveness, but by being judged. The December 17th process has changed a lot in this country. The consequences of this will be seen daily. Now, we've seen, however, that you appreciate secularism. Remember, courage is contagious, but fear is contagious. Your knees are shaking with this infectious disease called fear, but you're about to learn your lesson in the chest. We will not allow the creation of a new parallel MIT. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0327par0042	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "five times" of the 524th amendment to the "double" of the statement in Article 99 of the current law bill. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0328par0048	We disagree. President-government?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0329par0050	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0330par0051	I'm reading the reason: The 4th Law of 657. The fee for these chartered personnel (B) will amount to five times the contract fee for the current 4B employees. A very troubling and unfair structure is emerging here. In spite of millions of workers, laborers inflation and large increases, living under the hunger limit, while the government envisions a very small increase in minimum wage, with the government predicting a salary of 5 times as much as the current contracted staff, which is $18,000 in gross salary. Therefore, this fee must be brought down and arranged with justice. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "tents" be added after the declaration of Article 99 of the current law bill 524. Kemalettin Yilmaz (Afyonkarahisar) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0331par0060	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0330par0061	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0332par0062	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0330par0063	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0333par0065	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 99th Amendment of the Common Law Bill 524. I salute your high council. You're laying the foundation of a high-paid staffing position of 75 people in the Telecommunications Communications Presidency with an offer of amendments to the relevant clause. This arrangement, which is said to require the President of Telecommunications Communication, will allow them to purchase without any legislation and will produce irreparable consequences in the future. I think there's been a very serious and ulterior motive at the time of these legal provisions, which have made the presidency an autonomous public institution under the government's control alone, offering very serious concessions. These regulations, which have been monitoring all kinds of correspondence on the Internet, which are the infrastructure of censorship, raise deep concerns for all of our citizens, including public employees, are already restricting their freedoms. Dear lawmakers, many of our citizens have been handed over to the courts, demanded sentences, and even sentenced to prison for alleged writing and sharing against the AKP and the government on various social media vehicles and websites. The government's work, which says it will develop freedoms, has helped people to express their reactions by opening accounts. Dear lawmakers, if we're doing politics, if we're seeking to run the country, we should all be open to righteous criticism. What difference does it make if the ugly traps against our party prior to the 2011 elections and the government, who has not done anything about them on the Internet, now, when the same situation happens on its own, it starts to apply censorship, suppressing the judiciary, media, citizens, restricting people's freedoms? Our current administrators should be very, very careful with this. In addition to that, the government has been dealing with new censorships, while it is broadcast on dozens of sites that have damaged the standing and integrity of the state, while it is openly hostile to the Republic of Turkey and its social media users who have not moved while it is on the air. If it is to be done, it should create a system not in its own power, but through an independent organization that does not intervene, which is not interfered, or under the control of the judicial authorities. In these days, when everyone in the country is living on the level of paranoia, with allegations of monitoring, tagging, staring into our people's eyes, doing this censorship work, bringing censorship laws, it makes you feel like you don't intend to be right. Dear lawmakers, our government must be open to criticism, especially righteous criticism. Any attempt to censor people's individual freedoms is unacceptable, except for the fact that they've tried to undermine the state's survival and integrity. It's not possible for this to be accepted by us. As the National Movement Party, we've always favoured freedom of opinion, we've always favoured democracy. With this, the law demands a coup on our democracy, our freedom of opinion. Clearly, valuable lawmakers, your approach to this law is not compatible with democracy, nor with the advanced democracy you often express. I invite you to reconsider and reconsider these matters, and in this feeling and thought, I salute your grand delegation. Good evening, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0334par0074	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three proposals in Article 100, which I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of the 3rd amendment of the Interim 3rd Article added to Article 5651 and the framework 100th article of the current law bill 524 rows. Yusuf Halaçoğlu Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Haluk Ayhan In the event that the Union cannot complete its establishment during the specified period, the online service providers and other operators providing internet access to the Union are fined by one percent of their net sales in the previous calendar year. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm going to now read are the same property, I'm going to process them together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 100th article of the current bill of law, 524 rows, be removed from the text of the bill. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüzel Hasip Caplan Pervin Buldan Altan Tan The signatures of the other motion are: Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Çam İzzet Cetin Sena Muslim Muslim of the Castle Yeon Aydın Agha Aya Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0335par0099	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0334par0100	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0336par0101	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0334par0102	First, I'll have you read the reason: The Union's primary task, mentioned in the article, has been defined as blocking access. Only companies with predicted block and control infrastructures will be able to join this unit and those who are not members will not be able to provide the Internet service. This will lead to the closing of many companies in large and small, leaving the market to only the great players. In other words, it will not be possible for small access providers to be involved in this union, and in this sense it will create a monopoly dominated by large companies. Mr. Kaleli, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0337par0107	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I don't know if you've noticed, but we're becoming more and more closed regimes every day. Lord Acton's absolute power corrupts, absolute power corrupts. The AKP is in absolute control of the conquest process, as he confirms his promise. The ambition of absolute power to rule, conquer, and not lose created political blindness and deafness. Turkey is being persecuted by the national will. You've thought about the purity of innocence that's been forgotten so far, and it's been transformed into a product of victimism, and it's been created from victimism. The measure of patriotism has become AKP-loving, and everyone else has been declared enemies and traitors. You have an eyebrow over your eye. Anyone who calls it "politic morality" has been a blower. I've been tempted to become a human being, and Şemsi Tebrizi says, "I understand that people think that the thirsty are cowards, the ignored are fools, the forgiving are in the bag." But they are as many people in our lives as we want, and when the AKP does not shut up, they also justify blasphemy and violence as a motive for the speech of bribery and corruption. The sanctioned regulations allow Turkey to be isolated from the modern world and alone. As a matter of fact, Freedom House shows Turkey in part among free countries due to its authoritarian tendencies. The provision for HSYK and the Internet is a manifestation of the government's increasing oppressive and censoring mentality and its own will. Before the law was passed, it took the courage to commit constitutional crimes, and for the first time, it tried to censor even the control activities of the law. Aren't you the one who assures you that if you don't have the wrong job, if you don't have an illegal job, don't be afraid to rest, talk as much as you want? Aren't you the one who tried to design the state and politics with information and documents leaked from the Internet, condemning people to death by branding them like terrorists, ringleaders and marauders?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0338par0110	In the legal papers... tell me that.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0337par0111	The basis for these arrangements was that social media was viewed as a public nuisance during Prime Minister Erdogan's Gezi Park activities. Not understanding the enemy's system is my enemy system. ...the goal is to cover everything up. Keeping the people from sharing in all kinds of things. With this offer, we will have our own unique Internet, such as in totalitarian countries, where Internet access can be blocked without a judicial decision. In the legal state, it is called the right to obtain information and the authority to obtain it. The Union of Access Providers, which is the subject of Article 100, is not a unit that protects the laws of access providers and defends their rights, such as vocational rooms. The only task of this unconditionally troubled unit is to block and report access. The TİB also has unlimited authority. So you forget about the cloud in the air. On the other hand, with this arrangement, many companies in large and small will close and there will be monopoly. Those who oppose closures practice clan law. The closures, the pressure, the pushing were never the answer. I'd like to finish my words with a quote from Jonah Emre. Don't mind him. He's the Creator. Don't think it's the profit of the tyrant. The victim's head will be down. There's a time for everything. He says it's time, and I pay my respects to the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0339par0125	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0340par0128	We want roll call because the preacher's been molested. Our teacher was molested...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0339par0129	All right, all right, roll call's fine. You're making me work out. Mr. Altay, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Akar, Mr. Eksinci, Mr. Sarı, Mr. Yüçük, Mr. Yilman, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Moroğlu, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Değirmeddereli, Mr. Şeş, Mr. Acar, Mr. Ekshi. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Yeah, there's plenty of meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of the 3rd amendment of the Interim 3rd Article added to Article 5651 and the framework 100th article of the current law bill 524 rows. Emin Haluk Ayhan (Marine) and his friends In the event that the Union cannot complete its establishment during the specified period, online service providers and other operators providing internet access to the Union are fined by one percent of their net sales in the previous calendar year. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0341par0146	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0339par0147	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0342par0148	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0339par0149	Mr. Ayhan, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0343par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a motion to change the 524 rows of the law bill, which is included in Article 100, article 5651, and the interim article (3). I salute the grand jury. Requesting support for our motion. Our reason is that it is contrary to the personal and imperfect principles of the responsibility of the criminally responsible person and of those who provide access to their obligations by completing the accession process during the appointed period. For this reason, we think that the criminal officer would be limited to service providers who did not participate in the union, in a way that would block the union's establishment. In fact, what did this part of the bill come about? I talked about it mostly. There is a panic in the AKP; the result of the December 17th incident has come to light. I don't want to say corruption, but the AKP Group, the ministers, also show resentment; something like this happened yesterday. The restraining order of this incident... the minister is taking over behind the institution... but the government is going to have a hard time getting behind it, and it's really troubling, and that's what's coming for him. Nerves are tense, ministers are really troubled, I agree. For example, on the day of this incident, Mr. Finance Minister was here, he cursed it, and he started looking at it a little bit differently in the morning with the tweets, but then he called 300 investors from abroad. His job is really hard. What do you say when you're looking for the investor abroad? Do not withdraw money from Turkey, and bring additional things. How can you say that? For example, I think, sometimes I replace myself with the Minister of Finance: "Ya, because of the corruption that happened on December 17th -- let's say, there's no point in hurting too much -- because of this incident, half of our cabinet has changed, half of our cabinet has gone up, we've had to increase interest rates, we've surrendered to the lobby of interest, but we're changing HSYK. I think the Fezlekes are going backwards, too. ▪ The ministers may come back. Therefore, continue to trust us, and we will do so, and do not be troubled. However, something appears here -- perhaps the Minister will save it -- but if the former ministers replace the ministers who left the mission for that reason, there may be a situation like increasing the number of cabinets. This is really uncomfortable. Now, we're looking, are there parallel state extensions in TÜİK, as well as in the Central Bank? The government doesn't want it, the Minister of Economy doesn't want it, even tells Denizli not to change position. But what does the Central Bank do? It increases interest in an abnormal way. In fact, in the middle of the night -- we were wondering what was going on -- it turns out that someone from America -- the board member -- is going to come, and then it's going to be changed. It's really hard. There's also a problem with the TÜİK, and it's starting to revisit inflation day by day. How? He was over 1,70, 1,7, and he became 1,98-2 today. Yesterday, as much as a third of the government's annual goal was completed in January, and it was gone; and today it has increased, and it is compressing the government. There was also a saying from our Minister of Economy, which would develop inflation in a positive direction, which, of course, would require an explanation, so the ears are a little scratchy. So if it develops in a positive direction, it's supposed to fall off, it's supposed to be inflation, it's supposed to be positive, but the citizen gets it a little wrong, so you have to think about it. Now, the time is short, but yesterday here I called Mr. Minister Onore my colleague, but he didn't dare go to the Turkish nation's pool account and curse those who swear. I'm sorry, I can't say that on behalf of the Minister himself and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Turkey, but at least one of them would come out of there and say, "Don't curse the Turkish nation." I'm waiting for you, Minister. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0344par0162	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 101. I'm having them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the law, which is in 524 rows, shall be changed until the 1 0th Article of the 101th Amendment. Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Seyfettin Yilmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 101 of the Common Legislature. We request that the item be removed from the text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İzzet Cet Musa Çam Müslim Sarı Aydın Agha Ayadın of Kemal Millendere Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0345par0179	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0344par0180	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0346par0181	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0344par0182	Mr. Millerdere, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0347par0184	Mr. President, I have made a promise regarding the 101st Amendment. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, this is a clause beyond the debates of the Internet, in summary, about the reduction of the number of staff working at RD headquarters to 30. Precious lawmakers are dragging high-tech products into the world's economy and trade. We, in particular, should aim to enter into the world's 10 major economies in 2023, which is the claim of AKP power, should increase the rate of growth to 6 per cent and make it sustainable. This engine is essentially moving from investing in RD and high-tech productions. However, when we look at the real situation, the low-tech production structure, as we have done in the last decade, will not be able to reach that goal as low- and medium-tech exports continue. When we look at the production and export structure of our country's manufacturing industry, the production of our high-tech products has fallen from 5.7 per cent in 2003 to 3.5 per cent in 2012. In the same regard, exports fell from 6.2 per cent to 3.2 per cent in 2002. The ruling party speakers who came up here boasted that during this decade, we increased our illegal national product to three times as much, they say. But on equal terms, Mexico, Brazil, Indonesia, we don't evaluate them. On the other hand, look, valued lawmakers, when we look at our industrialization today, we see that our industry is down from 23 per cent to 16 per cent in national income. I don't find it right that after December 17th, Turkish lira reached 30 per cent of its value loss and the rise of interest. Although Mr. Prime Minister said, the process of corruption and lawlessness, which led to the increase of interest by 100 per cent, has also struck a severe blow to industrialisation. Look, valued lawmakers, the sum of our RD investments -- the sum of our citizens, private sectors, universities -- are only 0.84 percent of our non-national revenues, and only 0.84 percent of our non-national revenues, which are very important for us to make development jumps. In this short time -- here, Israel 4,38, Finland 3,78, South Korea 3,74 -- to look at more than that in a budgetal way: Dear friends, the United States of America is investing $415 billion, Japan is investing $179 billion, China is investing $135 billion. But more importantly, what we have to go through to get into the top 10 economies is South Korea, $38 billion, Canada, $30 billion, Australia, $28 billion, we're only investing $6.7 billion. So, dear friends, as we say in the beginning, we say the world's economy, its trade, its advanced technology. What do we do if we don't? Thanks to you, we're being dragged into a parallel pattern into a conundrum behind the shoeboxes. Dear lawmakers, we have a obligation to train young people based on science, knowledge, to make a jump on RD, beyond the layer of evidence that we can't bring our RD centers into the system by reducing the number of experts. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0348par0194	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the law, which is in 524 rows, shall be changed until the 1 0th Article of the 101th Amendment. Emin Haluk Ayhan (Marine) and his friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0349par0201	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0348par0202	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0350par0203	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0348par0204	Mr. Ayhan, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0351par0206	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, with the motion, we propose and propose that the declaration of 524 rows of Bill 101 shall be changed until further notice. Our motive is to benefit from lower SMEs, more than RD supports. I don't know, Mr. Secretary, as far as he's concerned, I don't know about him in there, but we wanted to give the poor poor -- what can I say -- a little bit more opportunity for the little SMEs. I mean, we understand that the AKP, of course, opposes the fact that you're with the rich, but I didn't think your witness would object to such a thing, but it's true that you speak for the government. Now, we want smaller businesses to take advantage of these benefits if possible. The interest has already gone up, I just told you. The interest lobby has captured the government; the government has no solution; inflation -- I just told you -- is being revised daily, they're slowly feeding it. Prices are going up along with the courses. Our Minister of Denizli said that interest, currencies, tax increases don't affect inflation. He said, "I don't want to give a name in one of the subscribing channels; if the Prime Minister follows him, you should probably phone him and take him out." I mean, you have to be careful with the ministers.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0352par0210	Maybe he did, maybe he did.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0351par0211	Now, the Federal Reserve says differently. When you look at it in dollars, about 40 percent of the deposit is in dollars, whatever you do. What do you do to everyone, take the position. You say, "Take the position." But the government gives the position. And now I'm going to tell you about the pool account, and I'm not going to go too far. In our little pool accounts, there were two fountains of water coming in, a certain amount coming out from below, but that would be minute and clocked, and we wouldn't have gone any further. Now, when we look at the pool accounts, there's no leakage in the pool accounts, it's closed. It's closed, but the people who go into the pool say to each other, what happens in the pool, and then to those who come into the pool for the first time or to those who come to the pool for the first time, they say, "You'll get used to it next time. I mean, it's really important, there's solidarity...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0353par0213	I've got protection.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0351par0214	I've got protection and practice, so they're training. Now, when you look at it, the pool account really has grown, it's grown. So what do we do when we think about it like this, that's what makes it so stressful? The ones in the pool, the first ones in, they get through that shock in, like, a week. Now, it's not easy, it's not easy for the people in the pool and it's not easy for them. Because, are the negotiations constantly changing, the same conversations? If they're the same, it's a little easy to get into a habit, but if you keep trying to teach each one of them the pool account, he's a real pain in the ass and a curse on what he gets. I mean, something like this really... the government needs to have a wider visionary view of these issues. If you say, "I'm going to organize all these things in some way," you're going to be in trouble. Anyway, if you look at the fact that this bill is coming here today... in the form of this bill -- in the form of a design -- in which there are dozens of different issues, you'll see that it doesn't mean anything. When you look at it, it is neither in accordance with the law nor in accordance with the technique of making, nor in accordance with the Civil Law. At the same time, what you bring against the Constitution, and what you offer, and what you bring with you, and what you bring with you. And there's no way that you can go through history as a legitimate government, often digitally, when you're in this business. I feel sorry for you: you may pass like this, but as a result, you pass as the government of the Republic of Turkey. My regret, my concern, my concern is that such a government is history in the name of the future of my nation. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0354par0218	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Thank God! The votes of the substances in section four are complete. We will now begin the interviews of section five. The fifth part includes articles 102 to 125, including the interim article 1. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Müslim Sarı has asked for a statement on the fifth chapter. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0355par0228	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the majority of the fifth chapter of Law Proposal 524. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we have a new bag of legislation ahead of us. It's hard enough to even talk about the general part of a bag of legislation because it doesn't have a systematic integrity. It's not easy to talk about it in general because it's not consistent with a whole approach, and it's not systematic, but I'd like to share with you my thoughts about a few of the substances that I choose and particularly consider important. The first is about the privatisation of highways. The other, if I have time, is about the transfer of Article 122, or the Ministry of Health of the Foundation of Turkey to the Ministry of Health. Dear MPs, the privatisation fair in Turkey began in 1985. According to privatisation management figures, between 1985 and 2013, Turkey has received $58.6 billion privatisation. A total of $58.6 billion privatisations were made in stock sales, property sales, IPO, sales in IMKB. In the middle of the 1980s, we see this rational and rationalized privatisation of Turkey's conditions as time goes by, moving from where we are today, from its original goal, from its original philosophy, and from far beyond its original structure to very different points. I'd like to make an assessment of this through a few criteria. What's the privatisation for? One of the most important elements is to take advantage of the market's efficiency factors, which is to increase competition. Now, there have been such privatisations in Turkey that, for example, as in Turkish TELECOM privatisation, there is no efficiency in the market anywhere. What did we do? We've turned public monopoly into a private monopoly. So, just because Turkish TELECOM was privatized today, competition in the telecommunications industry has increased, efficiency has increased, no one can say, no one can say. What was another matter, one of the most important reasons for privatisation? They were financial problems. These were companies that were seriously damaged, and there had to be serious investments here. So it was said that there was no way that the people could bear this burden. But for example, today no one can tell us where the privatisation of the National Lottery Administration is in this logic. Strategic sectors are the sectors that need to be carefully evaluated for privatisation throughout the world. So in this context, no one can tell us today where to put the privatisation of ports, highways, energy and mines. We know that one of the things that needs to be taken care of in privatisation is the right price, and that, in accordance with the market, privatisation should be made, and that's one of the most important reasons for the public. But for example, no one can tell us today how the liquor department of TEKEL could be sold for $900 million without investing in it, without putting any money on it. Again, production, the level of production, the level of concern about employment should be one of the issues that should be taken care of by the public. In that sense, no one can tell us what part of privatisation of the Meat and Fish Foundation and sugar factories is involved in. Now, after these general statements, the 110th article on privatisation, which is one of the most important items in the fifth chapter, is very important, and we have some concerns here, and we want to share them with you as opposition. Article 110 is the evaluation of highways and facilities. All highways in Turkey are planned to be sold and privatised for twenty-five years, including a 100 per cent public-owned company as part of the privatisation administration of all highways, and later to sell assets and shares in IMKB, including the sale of shares. Dear friends, not long ago, as you all know, there was a privatisation tender about 1,975 kilometers, including two bridges and eight highways. This tender, which has been offered to the Coach and Country Group for about 25 years at $5 billion 720 million, is a much lower price than we expected. At this price, privatisation was treason. However, our Plan and Budget Commission has asked questions about how much revenues will be transferred into a company that will be put into this privatisation portfolio today, or rather, into a privatisation agency, for 25 years, and has not given us a clear answer to the questions we've done. In 2012, the texts that were brought to us as a draft show that we were talking about roughly $300 million in income, after taxes were dropped, maintenance and repair costs. When I multiply this by twenty-five years, twenty-five years from now, twenty-five years from now, we see that this company is roughly $7.5 billion. Now, I'm asking you here: why is it that for 25 years, the privatization of a company that is roughly $7.5 billion worth of value is not treason, but the current revenues, we think that's enough, and we're canceling a tender that's been invested in 5.7 billion for 25 years and you don't have to wait, and in a shorter time? If we're canceling this tender, if we're calling it treason at this price, then these organizations in the Privatisation Administration portfolio should be far above that value. There's a very serious discrepancy here, that someone should tell us, here, from this stand, from the public's stand. Another important issue is here in Article 122. See, the Dianet Foundation, the Dianet Foundation in Turkey, even though it is a foundation within the framework of its private legal rule, is protected, despite a foundation within the framework of its private legal personality, from the same foundations, from other foundations, from other foundations in the same status. Today, here, as a member of the Plan and Budget Commission, during my two-and-a-half-year term as a legislator, I have not been able to figure out what the budget of the Foundation for Religious Affairs is. In our recent talks, Mr. President of the Plan and Budget Commission, they told us that we would be informed of the budget of the Foundation for Religious Affairs, but we came here today, and we still don't know that. Even though we've asked several times, and we've tried to explain it to the relevant agencies, we haven't had a chance to find out.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0356par0243	The barber promised.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0355par0244	As a parliamentary member of the Republic of Turkey, as a member of the Plan and Budget Commission, we don't know how much resources the President of Religious Affairs is using, we can't find out, despite all our efforts, and even though the President of the Commission has promised...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0356par0245	Hah!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0355par0246	...in front of the entire commission -- he's in the living room, he's sitting in the back -- and he can't keep that promise, even though he promised in front of his entire commission. The Foundation of Religion is protected, and the spending within the Foundation of Religion is hidden, covered. As MPs, as elected lawmakers, we have the right to know. Now, two hospitals belonging to the Foundation for Religious Affairs are being transferred to the Ministry of Health. We're asking in the commission: what are their accounts? What's the damage? In accordance with what, in accordance with what criteria, are you taking over? What's the information on that? We're not getting that information. The representative of the Diet Foundation says that we wanted to enter this area then, we can't profit now, we can't operate, we can't transfer. What's it to us, what's it to the public? Does it make him privileged to have the name of the Religion Foundation at his head? When this road opens, will the Ministry of Health accept it when all the foundations in Turkey resort to it?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0356par0249	Foundation colleges...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0355par0250	The answers to these questions must be answered here, in public. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0357par0253	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0358par0257	Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you for your support. Of course, from now on, my friends aren't gonna be able to listen, they just have enough energy to keep up with the roll call. Then, slowly, but really, we're discussing some of the important items of this bill. Our friends spoke, and Mr. Yellow spoke in general. Now, I have time here to address a few very important issues. Before, when we were talking about the substance, there's a freaking organization here about the Internet bans. They called it the Union of Enlightenment Providers. Now, I forgot to file a motion on that clause, but I think it should be changed to a restraining order. So is it the suppliers, or is it the prohibiting centre? Why would you hand this over to the private sector? Minister, have you received an immunity? You got it. Do you get immunity here for telecommunications communications president? You're buying it. Mr. Doğan, I'm just making a suggestion to the Minister, if you don't mind. I'll take it from here because it's important, Mr. Doğan. I'm saying, Mr. Secretary, I missed that motion, but let's discuss the monopoly here. Is there such a thing as the Union of Enlightenment Providers? Besides, you're giving him a restraining order... Why are you putting a burden on the private sector? What are you going to do when the guy doesn't forbid it? What law are you going to uphold? He didn't agree, he didn't sign up, what happened was separate, accepted, joined the organization separately, disagreed, and you put it all in a bag. I think it's supposed to call it banning my access, sorting out the news about us or something. First of all, there's a freak in your name. Now, I'll tell you this: you want it to move so fast, new ideas keep coming in. I asked upstairs, Mr. Secretary, our president was there, and I told him, I haven't received any information yet. My Facebook page was hacked. I opened it, someone came and texted everyone inside, and he says, "Mr. Demiröz, I'm out of money, can you send me a message?" Mr. Elvan... he's thrown all of you, all of you. The ones who were awake didn't say anything. I've got information, I've changed it. Now, I'm looking for the vice president of Telecommunications Communications, the head of the department. Teacher, we can't do anything about it. It says, "Send it to this GSM operator." I say, "Look, the GSM operator and the company have the code." If it's this one, send your phone over here, if it's this one, send it over here. I'm looking for the regional manager of the concerned operators, and I'm saying: "Look, who is this institutional?" I'm saying a very important example: "Who is this institutional operator?" This man collects money. The director of the relevant private sector, the company says, "Tell me here. I'm opening it to the police department, I'm telling the police department, we can't do it. I'm going to the prosecutor's office. It's been three months, four months, the prosecution still hasn't filed the case. So, how come you're taking yours off the air in 12 minutes? Mr. Minister, Mr. Doğan will tell you later, we'll take care of it. I was lifting yours in 12 minutes... and I got as far as the D.A.'s office. Look, TIB, PD, the relevant units still don't know about my file. What if these guys keep scamming? Isn't this Internet communication crime?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0359par0265	Change prosecutors, prosecutors!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0358par0266	So, how do you do it, how do you apply it to whom? I told you on the commission, there's still no one coming or going. I'm constantly looking at -- there's a tracking number -- there's nothing there. If those guys are still scamming, if they're hacking yours and texting your friends, who's gonna check? Which unit of this government will be in control? You're here. Let's just touch what's coming out of us, and the rest of it won't happen. We really need to take precautions here to prevent that, dear friends. But when he received it, he came to us, and he came to the other one. Let's not do it. The double standard must be lifted. Now, in this part of the law, something very important is coming. You know, we called it a bag, the soup turned into a mess, everything in it. I mean, whatever you're looking for, it's from the owner, it's from the need, so whoever's for sale, they rush in and put everything in it. There were 61 -- if I remember correctly -- there was a change in law and order. After that, I don't know how much. We've lost track of time now. It was when it came from the subcommittee. Dear friends, there's a clause here concerning the privatisation of highways. He's a freak. Now, there's something coming up behind him, something to do with the hospital's publicization. I mean, how do you do it, put the privatisation back and forth? Bravo! I suppose I should reward you with a commendation, as the subcontractors just did. So privatisation of a substance -- where it shouldn't be specialized -- is in the same law.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0360par0270	He's free of charge, no cost of publicization.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0358par0271	It's a really big success.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0360par0272	He's not paying.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0358par0273	I mean, now, look, we don't know, he says, according to a contract of employment. Whatever's written on that contract...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0360par0274	Hospitals are free. Publicization is free of charge.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0358par0275	Why don't you answer there, Mr. Irony? How do you put the two, I say, privatisation and publicization? He says it's free. Now, here's the thing: Well, how much harm does it do? You didn't say. Why are they handing it over? You didn't say. Does a foundation have a purpose? I do. Why did he build that hospital? If the foundation is incompatible with its purpose, then the Foundation's Office of the Foundation must close its foundation. Every year, they're audited, supposedly, so they're audited. Dear friends, you're doing a highway privatisation here. Well, how am I supposed to stop it from happening when you don't go public and sell blocks? Privatization... I'm saying, make a trust, sell the income, open it to the bottom. But now that you gave it to the company, you sold Turkish TELEKOM, as a privilege. All the land sold out, all the properties sold out. We're looking, we're all looking. We go to the courts, we spin, the court breaks again, we go again, we watch. You know, we weren't just going to give him the cable, we were going to give him the privilege; he was going to give it to us when it was over. What's the matter, what's left? Now, that's how it goes, and it goes one step at a time towards privatisation. Mr. Yellow just told me, the numbers are there. We argued many times at the commission upstairs. Why did you break that contract, what did it cost, what was it? There's a lot of bids coming in. On the other hand, it's the same with health. Twenty-five years, the next twenty-five years, we get up from one side and hand it over to the private sector. Health is something the government must provide. For competition, let them do it, but you're building a hospital in 87 per cent of international research called dol-rerala-devret, which is more expensive than the usual tender method. We're warning you, Mr. Prime Minister, you're building a foundation, you're showing it. Well, at least let's try one or two, see how much it costs, how much it costs, and then we say, "Go ahead." So we're building a hospital we don't need. In the same way, the privatisation do-work-development, and now the building-privatization model has arrived. Guys, are you saying that you don't... you don't even realize that we're actually saying this? There's no chance you won't understand, we've said it many times. Mr. Secretary and I both work for the late DPT, the Department of Development has an Office for Public Special Partnership. It's a kaduke. It's an apartment. There was that apartment there when there was no agency. Since 2007, the draft bill has been waiting, since 2007. It worked, guys. As he stood, the Minister of Culture and Tourism came and I'm going to do it here. The Minister of Education came here. I'm going to do it here. It's all... it's like we said in the government staff regime, you have to sit in every system and pull something out like a man. One of us pulls out of there, one of us pulls out of here, and it turns out to be just like everybody described an elephant. So, look, we don't have a chance to run the highways here with that understanding. The highways will take care of it and run it again. I mean, what did I get out of it? It's back to the story of the Agha and the Marauder. There's nothing there.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0361par0281	What's the story, I'm curious.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0358par0282	So now he's... he's gonna get paid. Well, let him do it, let him run it, let him make a profit. If the Highways are going to do it, if they're going to do it, isn't it our problem to lower our cost? That doesn't happen, that understanding is wrong.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0362par0283	He's not gonna fix it, he's gonna fix it.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0358par0284	That's what I'm saying. He's not running anything after he's done the maintenance work, so we're running it. Costs are coming. Dear friends, it's a double standard. The era of the Diabetes Foundation's hospital is also the way. There are other foundations. Take over ours tomorrow. What are you going to do about it? I looked online, for example, at the Elmadağ Surp Agop Armenian Hospital Foundation, which is the hospital, the foundation hospital, and take ours. What will you do if he goes to the Constitutional Court and makes an individual application? I mean, this is a private sector hospital, not the Ministry of Religious Affairs hospital. Look, this is the hospital of the Foundation, of the Foundation, of the Foundation of Turkey. For him, dear friends, these substances cause both injustice and double standards. This place needs to be reviewed, and the materials need to be corrected. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0363par0289	Thank you, Mr. Günal. İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu on behalf of individuals. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0364par0293	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, I wasn't going to talk. My muslim brother and my brother Mehmet Günal have made some mention, but... Today I received a guest I knew many years ago. I'm so sad. I'm informing you, especially in electricity distribution companies, look at the balance sheets in the process of bidding. I'm calling it in. There are, there aren't any power distribution companies. It's my duty to tell you exactly what you're saying. I'm a God-fearing person. Whoever's eating the values of this country is an asshole, he's a bastard, I'm telling you. He's not billing for four months, he's showing the consumer his debt to four months of TEDASH. After the privatisation, those bills are billed, that money goes into the private company's safe, and that money goes to this company. I'm so sorry. Mr. Minister just said, "Why are you in a bad mood?" That's why my asshole is upset. Who do I serve? Why are we giving our lives in this House? To serve the people in this House. I know you have a lot of honest people in you, but you don't call a thief a thief, let's all say together. Cursed be the parallels of the parallels, and whoever steals, and whoever does! If there's a thief, a bastard, if we have it in us, we'll always have our children in this country... Two, Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me, I apologize. You're a project person. Just a moment, brother Müslim, a little bit... when the Privatisation Authority came to the Commission, just ask him if he gave us any information, just one thing. So he explained to us the yield of a project, the ramifications, the feasibility of that project? The problem, sir, was here, and your friends were there. No, we got this information from your headquarters when we said, "What brings these highways that you're going to privatize?" Again, friends, to your consciences, 900 million a year, with today's money... 900 billion, Mr. Undersecretary?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0365par0297	Millions, millions.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0364par0298	900 million revenues now on the highways. They give part of it to the relevant municipalities, and there's a VAT, isn't there? About 650 million dollars go into the pockets of the highways every year, into the pockets of the government. Is it true, Mr. Vedat?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0365par0299	A little more, yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0364par0300	I'm talking about average. If it's 700, I'd be more than happy with 700. Now, guys, that's 15 billion in 25 years, multiply...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0365par0302	But he'll give 25 percent to the highways.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0364par0303	Just a minute, sir. 25 percent of this will be given to that company, a virtual company, virtual. He will export bonds. Minister, a coin has today's value. We're going to privatize it... without any calculations, Mr. Secretary? I'm asking you -- the 110th article is tomorrow -- the plague of these people is always on you, Mr. Secretary. Before you do the math on this... let's say you're going to export today's net print value, which is today's value, what kind of bond are you going to export? What about these interest rates tomorrow? For twenty-five years, you will put a circle under the yoke of this country. If inflation falls to 2 per cent tomorrow, if inflation falls to 3 per cent tomorrow, who will account for the bonds you sell with 12 per cent and 13 per cent today? Twenty-five years, who's gonna pay for this long-term interest? You're going to pay about 15 billion dollars.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0366par0306	First the highways, then the agencies will pay.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0364par0307	No. Twenty-five percent... care, repair, highways.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0366par0308	No.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0364par0309	Those workers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Secretary, without any books being done, without giving these people what they're bringing and what they're carrying, if this material passes, I'm telling you, I'll die, but 25 years from now, the plague is on your neck. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0367par0314	Thank you. Talks on chapter five are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section five to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. On Article 102, there are three proposals, two of which are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the co-ordination of the relevant activities in Article 102 of the current law bill 524, which is to be added with the additional security and notifications before their declarations. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Rusar Demirel Alim Ikım Emin Çınar Yusuf Halaçoğlu Now, since I have two proposals that I'm going to read, I'm going to process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 102 of the current bill of law. We request that the item be removed from the text. Aydın Ağan Ayyadın İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Musa Pine Moon Pitcher The signatures of the other motion are: Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Hasip Kaplan Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0368par0340	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0367par0341	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: Since the concept of national cyber-security, mentioned in the article, is a vague definition that can be drawn in all directions, it is possible to violate the privacy of individual and personal information using national cyber security as an excuse. Mr. Aslanoglu, who will speak?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0369par0347	The Moonslayer...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0367par0348	Mr. Horseman, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0370par0350	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion on the article 102° of the Law on Soup No. 524. I salute all lawmakers who do not want to keep computing and social media in their monopoly. Dear friends, you're trying to add a dam to the Electronic Telecommunications Act. You say here that we will ensure the safety of real and legal people by setting up policies, goals, strategies to ensure national cyber security. As always, we will provide security. You say, "What will come out of it?" You're trying to do something good, let's see what comes out of it. Why do I say that? Because we know painfully what you understand about the physical and cyber security of our citizens. For example, did you kill Ali Ismail Korkmaz to protect him by the power of the government? Did the officers you ordered kill Ali Ismail Korkmaz to protect him from living in this wicked land? Is this your idea of protection? Was it your intention to protect these and similar killings? For God's sake, don't protect us. We don't want that kind of protection in any way, so it's yours. Now, you want to do a similar application to the Travelers, which are not worth protecting, which you prefer to kill rather than protect, in cyberspace. How will our citizen trust the government agency that censored our MP's motion to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? I mean, how can he believe that the government is protecting the citizen? How can our citizens rely on such understanding when you're ruining people's lives by uploading telephones? How can he trust me with the protection clause that you added with this clause?..... that my government protects me......? How did you make such a mistake? Now we ask the question: are you in power? Is that why you think that 50 percent of the people are enemies because you're in power? The generations that will build tomorrow grow up with the free Internet, and you fear the world of the Internet. Would you make such a law if you weren't afraid? You're scared. And how you fear, you learn it from the Internet. You are banning the Internet on the grounds of protection. I thought you guys were fighting against bans. I thought you guys were struggling with the forbidden mentality. Why are you banning the Internet, and why? The government seeks to deprive young generations of their peers and competition in the world of internet ban. You don't want young people to have brains, you don't want young people to have brains. I will protect you, my son. You say, "I will protect you." But you suppress them. Just like their grandfather who missed the industrial revolution, they will miss this revolution, thanks to you, but we will never allow it.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0371par0358	We'll protect them, we'll protect you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0370par0359	I don't understand what you're saying, Mr. Congressman, but if you think it's appropriate, I'm teasing you, so come here and say two words, and I'll understand what you're saying. I don't understand, but I'm picking on you. Mr. President, if you promise, let him speak here. I mean, don't you think we realize that you're trying to make others pay the political bill for the corruption and bribery you've been stuck in? We're all aware of that. You're using the Internet ban as a means to clean up your own mess when you're trying to get rid of this mess you're stuck in as a government. You've made a mess, and you're going to clean up this mess by banning the Internet? What do you mean, for God's sake, I've authorized the Telecommunications Communications President, he can block access in any way he wants. Is stealing a private life? Is that why you're authorizing this? Were you not afraid of God? The novel, written by George Orwell in the 1940s, was a reality in our country. In this novel, a ministry of love was formed that controlled everyone everywhere. Now, this ministry is the Prime Minister of Turkey. Good night.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0372par0364	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit06spe0373par0365	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0373par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of the two motions in the same context was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the motions back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. We will continue negotiations with Bill 524. The commission is here, the government is here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the co-ordination of the relevant activities in Article 102 of the current law bill 524, which is to be added with the additional security and notifications before their declarations. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0374par0013	No, we don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0373par0014	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0375par0017	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0373par0018	Read the reason, please. The subject of activities to be coordinated is specified. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 103: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 103 of the current law bill, we propose and propose the removal and removal of the declarations from the text of the substance of the Article of the Telecommunication Communication Presidency or other units. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Rusar Demirel Yusuf Halaçoğlu Alim İlk Mehmet Günal Congressmans, since the two motions I'm going to now read are the same property, I'm going to process them together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 103 of the current bill of law. We request that the item be removed from the text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Musa Pine Müslim Sarı Haydar Akar The signatures of the other motion are: Fair Zozani Pervin Buldan İdris Baluken Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Hasip Kaplan Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0376par0046	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0373par0047	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Motive... The TİB powers mentioned in the article suggest that it will be a very vague institution in terms of democracy and human rights. With its qualifications defined in the bill, this clause cannot be accepted by expanding the authority of the TİB (TİB). Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0377par0053	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made in Article 103 of the Bill of Law, which is 524. With this clause, the Cyber Security Board may appoint the Telecommunication Communication Chairman for security and Internet codes. It says, "This arrangement is made, but it can be appointed by the Cyber Security Board." It says there is no Cyber Security Council. Because the Cyber Security Council is established on Article 106, a non-institutional institution is given a task. I don't know what kind of stuff that is, but there's a law like that coming up. But is such an institution necessary, the Cyber Security Council? Yes, such an institution is needed, Turkey needs such an institution. Because in addition to the opportunities that IT and IT technologies provide for facilitating life, we're all watching for alarming developments in the security dimension. Every aspect of our lives, every aspect of our lives, from health to education, without transportation to all our jobs, we now live together with IT and IT technologies. You see examples of this from iPadbooks, tablets, PCbooks, telephones. The work of these Assembly microphones, the president's management from there, is due to IT technology. Hence, the security dimension is of great importance. The most alarming dimension is the plan to preserve personal data. Now, protecting this personal data was supposed to be our priority. The priority for cyber security and the protection of personal data were supposed to be our priority, but what about our priority? Our priority was the ban on the Internet. Again, after 5651, we try to make a new arrangement to make it even more unreachable to the Internet with stricter rules. And for that, he was chosen to be a private bureaucrat. Well, what a talented bureaucrat I'm surprised at my friend. We've always given the authority of the judge, the prosecutor, the authority of psychologists who know the ethical rules, the authority of sociologists to this fellow. And that 9/A article, the 8/A joke, it's a joke. There's no need for anyone to apply, and as soon as our bureaucrat friend feels that he can stop the broadcast, he's got a job like this. Again, we're looking, now, we're supposed to break this law. About what? It's the law of protecting personal data. Did we get this off? He arrived at the House on April 22, 2008, but he's still waiting in Parliament. Of course, we don't make this law, it's the law of protecting personal data, because the SGK markets our data for 72.5 million TL. I mean, we're going to set up a cyber security law, we're going to set up an institution. In case they don't get our personal data from outside attacks, but who's going to protect it from the institutions of the state? Who will protect us from MIT, from the TİB, from the SGK? It's hard to understand. Again, we see, among the countries signing the Council of Europe's Cyber Crimes Convention is Turkey, signed in 2010, but we do not approve. Why don't we apply it or try to censor it? There's only one reason, guys. I'll be back for December 17. As the Prime Minister describes the December 17th in Germany today, he says: "We are a government that does not allow corruption. We are a government that does not allow corruption." I'm asking you right now: isn't the money on these dress racks corrupt?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0378par0059	It's not!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0377par0060	Again, is there no corruption in ministers wearing 700,000 TL watch?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0378par0061	No!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0377par0062	Again, isn't it a sign of corruption that the minister's children are in prison?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0378par0063	It's not!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0377par0064	Let's not touch Harama because of the fact that the counting machines are in the home of the minister's children. Isn't it, or is it, corruption?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0378par0065	It's all slander! It's all slander!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0377par0066	Isn't it corruption that the Public Bank Director is still in office and there's $4.5 million in shoe boxes?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0378par0067	It's not!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0377par0068	Isn't it corruption when the People's Bank gives $575 million to a bankrupt company?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0378par0069	No, it's a conspiracy!
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0377par0070	What I understand is that the Prime Minister doesn't allow anyone but himself and his followers. When he and his followers do it, it's all free and clear, but when others do it, it's corruption, which I understand, none of it is corruption. How do we know that? We understand from the prosecutors you hired -- I don't need to explain this -- you all know -- we understand from the chief of police who was brought to Istanbul by the Prime Minister's private plane, we understand from the police chiefs you've relieved of duty, and again, we understand from the Prime Minister's son who didn't show up for 35 days. How do we know? After we get the contract, we get it from the contractors who have fun and disbelieve in people. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0379par0074	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 103 of the current law bill, we propose and propose the removal and removal of the declarations from the text of the substance of the Article of the Telecommunication Communication Presidency or other units. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0380par0081	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0379par0082	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: Since it is clear that the Information Technologies and Communication Agency will perform its tasks in the matter of its duties and powers, it is estimated that unnecessary notifications of the matter will be issued. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions in Article 104, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the terms of the law bill 524 in the box of Article 104 without the knowledge and consent of its person, without the written consent of its person. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Rusar Demirel Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Günal Emin Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 104 of the current bill of law. We request that the item be removed from the text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İzzet Çetin Aydın Aghadın Muslim Yellow Levent Sky Musa Pine Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0381par0105	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0379par0106	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Light, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0382par0110	Mr. President, of course, in two and a half years, I've learned here what you're thinking: let's do it first, and then we'll try to exonerate him. If what you do helps you first, you don't make any noise, then if it hurts you, you try to make a new one without touching it. And while you're doing that, you're never taking that wrong job, and you're trying to make a new one out of it. Of course, you don't talk to us here either. Thank you! Of course, what is the role of the opposition? The job of the opposition is to tell you your wrongs here, to try to tell you your wrongs, but we've never seen them, except for a few such substances, which don't do you any harm, and we haven't seen you stand up and accept any of them in any substance, because, why, everything you know is right, you have to do them. One of the things about you is that no matter how badly society gets hurt, your power and your allies, if there's any use to the people around you, you continue to go on and on without seeing them. We've never seen you back down for anything, just keep going. Now, you come out here and you say that the country has lived in prosperity for 11 years, that everything is a rose. Citizen sells five kilos of milk, buys a liter of diesel. Citizen sells 20 pounds of wheat, buys a liter of diesel. Between $350 and $500 in straw, he buys 1 bale of weed, 1,500. He can't sell the animal he bought for $7,000 last year for $2,500 at the moment. You know, there's an obligation to make animals wear earrings, which was $2 last year, which is now -- you gave it to the livestock, you gave it to the private vets -- it goes for $8, $10. He wants to sell his animal, he wants to hand it over, the same prices come out there, he tries to get it back, the same prices come out there. There's now nearly 40 percent devaluation, and you're still showing nothing happened. True unemployment is actually over 20 percent, and you're showing that it didn't happen the same way. There was a time when no one liked it, didn't want to put it on the table, more villagers said it was eaten, so now it's $10, no one can buy it. Aunt Ayþe says my inflation is 50 percent, but I'm afraid you're still trying to create a whole kingdom of roses and horrors. Your spokesman says, "If we go, everything will go down." Everything is already screwed up, so what's left to sink? Mr. Minister, TELEKOM has become privatized, while privatizing -- actually there are a lot of things that haven't come out yet, and they probably will -- you're taking the treasure share from Avea, Turkcell, Vodafone, Vodafone, and you're not taking the private share of TÜRK TELEKOM, 15 percent, and that's about 10 billion dollars so far, from the day you sold it, you're going to be $11.5 billion. Why did you sponge away, what does this have to do with TELEKOM? They need to be investigated, and we're sure it's going to happen anyway. Of course, bribes, corruption investigations are being closed, zoning corruption is being tried to be carried out in a big way, major tenders were given to elected supporters, pools were created in these tenders, money collected -- not to give a name, not to advertise -- you got TV, newspapers. In order to destroy the Society for the Support of Modern Life, the President, who had cancer at that time, you tried to get the deceased by morning, of course, the parallel state did it, you didn't do it, but whatever wisdom in other foundations is taxed and free to collect everything. When you're implementing the law, if you're coming to your senses, there's nothing, but if it's no use to you, you just keep coming at it. With so much going on, you can't keep quiet. We're the people's surrogates. Everyone says that, my friends, but -- but you don't mind -- we took an oath on our way here, and when we swore, we said, especially at the end of the oath, we swear on our namus and honor. What's one of our greatest mission? One of our duties is to see and inspect the wrongs made by the executive. Have we ever seen anything like that? We didn't see it. What did the Prime Minister say anyway? I have the law, and I have the execution, and when I have the judgment, it will be all right, and it will be all right. Of course, the Lighthouse has been shut down, the Siemens case has been closed, and now the goal is to work to shut down the corruption of December 17th and December 25th. It's not the right thing to do. Now, maybe you'll turn it off, but I'll tell you this: it's in the public's memory. I think you're already preventing information from being made from television, especially by pressuring you to ban the Internet, but the world has become such a small world that everyone knows everything. That's why everyone's gonna know. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0383par0122	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the terms of the law bill 524 in the box of Article 104 without the knowledge and consent of its person, without the written consent of its person. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0384par0129	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0383par0130	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Read the reason: Abstract expression in matter is made concrete so as not to challenge the possible conflict over whether or not the person has knowledge or consent. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 105. I have them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the bill of law, which is in 524 rows, shall be changed from one day to one hundred days in Article 105 of the framework, to five hundred days in the form of a hundred days. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Rusar Demirel Yusef Halaçoğlu Alim Ikım Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 105 of the current bill of law. We request that the item be removed from the text. Aydın Agha Ayyadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kadir Gökmen Öğüt Müslim Sarı Musa Pine Gürkut Acar Commission?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0385par0153	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0383par0154	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Acar, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0386par0158	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion for Article 105 of Bag Number 524. I salute you. The sanctions for companies serving under the Electronic Telecommunication Act are being redesigned. Forensic fines from one hundred to five hundred days are reduced between fifty and a hundred days. There's no way to tell if it's really enough and deterrent. It's been five years since the law passed. In this five-year period of practice, what has happened, and what has happened, is going to be a discount like this, which needs to be explained in a concrete way, not revealed. Dear friends, this is what happens when you try to fit everything into a bag of laws. You have reduced Turkey from being a state of law and made it a state of bag law. Turkey does not practice law, justice does not operate, a process where only the laws of the AKP's administration are made in bags. Turkey's main problem today is the issue of law and justice. In Turkey, the judiciary is independent and free as long as it does not touch the AKP, but if it touches the AKP, there will be no independence of the judiciary. You've created a Turkey where the police don't listen to the courts, dear friends. The Lighthouse is happening again, and you think you can cover it up like him. For years, you have ignored, blocked, ignored the objections of digital lunatics in cases such as Ergenekon, sledgehammer, Poyrazköy, military espionage. Even though the electronic documents were documented by expert reports, the court ruled them out. He said, "There is no need." Now, what happened? Years later, the experts of TÜBİTAK said: "In these digital data, there are forgeries in electronic documents." Now, courts are evacuating people who have been on trial for years and years and years and years and years and years of their lives. What do you say now? You call that law? You call that justice? People shouted: "We didn't write these files, they came with the virus, they never opened it, they never opened it, they were in prison for years because of a false electronic document, even though they proved it. Prime Minister, what did the ministers say? There are other things there. A book can be as dangerous as a bomb. Now it's said: "Sorry, these are fakes, these are plots." It's not enough to cover up these sins, to bring back the three years that have been stolen from people's lives, to bring back five years. They must be accounted for at the Supreme Court. Years stolen from people's lives by false documents must be accounted for in the Supreme Court, and corruption must be accounted for in the parallel state, the government, and the gang's account in the Supreme Court. The High Court must also account for interfering with the investigations by calling the prosecutors at midnight to prevent the police from meeting the court order. The Prime Minister is responsible, the Minister of Justice, and the AKP ministers are responsible. Dear friends, with digital data, electronic documents, it is clear that legislation on crimes committed in the Internet must be revised. But what do you prefer? You prefer to censor the Internet, you choose this. Censored, forbidden, you can't get anywhere, you can't cover anything. You're obviously scared of the whole trip thing, but it's not something you censored. First, you have to prevent forgery. In order to do that, we need to be brought here as soon as possible by the Dair Law Charter, in order to confirm Act 380 of Virtual Crimes in the Circumstance, and it is necessary and necessary. He's been waiting for about two years. Why didn't you bring it? Because these forgeries were good for you. Look, guys, you didn't pass the treaty through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey because you knew that counterfeiting would come out. It must be brought to the General Assembly at once. For such frauds to happen again, this law must be enforced immediately. Dear friends, freedoms in Turkey come to mind when the AKP needs law. Today, the Prime Minister complains about illegal wiretaps. A deputy prime minister said they listened to all the members of my family. I'm asking you from here, what did you do for a living? Are you a salt shaker? Didn't you become Prime Minister to prevent any of this? Until yesterday, didn't the Prime Minister use illegal wiretaps in the polls? You blew up illegal wiretaps in Turkey, created a horror empire, now you're complaining. Dear friends, it'll turn around, it'll turn around. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0387par0166	Thank you, Mr. Acar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the terms of law bill 524 to five hundred days from one hundred days to one hundred days in the box of Article 105. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0388par0173	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0387par0174	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: This sentence is increased because there will be no deterrent of the judicial fine prescribed for falsifying documents and work done without the person's knowledge and consent. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 106, which I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the provisions passed in Article 106 of the current law bill 524 rows be changed in the form of decisions taken by the Council. Yusuf Halaçoğlu Erkan Akçay Rusar Demirel Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Çınar Alim Light Now, since I have two proposals that I'm going to read, I'm going to process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 524th amendment of the law shall be completely removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Secret Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Hasip Kaplan The signatures of the other motion are: Aydın Agha Ayyadın Erdal Aksunger Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Musa Pine Kadir Gökmen Öğümün Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0389par0205	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0387par0206	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: The Cyber Security Council, along with such concepts as national cyber security, gives the impression that the rights and freedoms of a person are an institution that has the potential to violate the privacy of personal information. Turkey's bad history and record for the preservation of personal information will pose a major problem in the context of freedoms with the imagined sense of cyber security. Mr. Aksinger, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0390par0213	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Cyber Security Board, as Mr. Haydar Akar said, are coming in on this matter concerning the board, actually, the proposal of the law actually comes in here, but they've already described the tasks. Of course, this is one of the most essential issues of cyber security, and we have no objection to that, but we have no confidence in any of these institutions since we haven't seen the rules of operations. In fact, let's not go too far away from security, for the MPs under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I don't think it's safe for them to use their address e-mails, but it's very clear, it's not safe. Because why isn't it? I think this is... I asked the Secretary General himself, and TÜBITAK had a security report like this, a review here. But I can't get into that report as a congressman, they won't give it to me, they won't give it to me, and Congress won't give it to me. Why? Because TÜBİTAK has made a report that -- for this Parliament, I say, for these braves -- there is one thing that claims that seven outside law enforcement forces have the right to go into these places and look at some places. I claim that the TÜBITAK report should be brought here and explained in this Parliament, and that it is in our favor. Because there's a weakness of security here that some of the tenders made by the Secretary General have been authorized from the outside, from the distance, as part of the maintenance agreements with some firms. And the answer is that a lot of guys who don't know who's in charge are still working here. I have a claim like that, it's a very important claim. I'm curious how the Cyber Security Board will function when the mails of lawmakers under the roof of their own House have security issues. I wonder how people who don't care about this are going to be interested in the rights of citizens outside, so this is a very important issue. Now, here's the situation: What happens if the International Convention on Virtual Crimes, the security of personal data, doesn't bring it? In fact, as long as Turkey does not make this security agreement with Europe, it is unable to co-operate with Europol on certain crimes. Why is this law, which came to the Ministry of Justice in 2006, not being brought in, but is now being brought in? I know it's the future. Not last week, but the previous week, he came back, he withdrew again -- he came back in 2008 -- he comes back, he comes back. Why don't you bring this? Yeah, well, it's kind of a thing that gets in the way of that, you know, from the outside to the businessmen coming here because they have protocol agreements. As long as you don't pass this law, you can't act on the application of the contract in 2001, which you are a party to in Europe. There's no such thing. Well, somebody's got to tell me the problem with that. The issue of crimes committed in a virtual environment is similar. Unless it's these two, there's no way to ensure the safety of the issues that friends just told us, which is, for sure, obvious. So, what are we discussing now? Cyber Security Board's on its way. E, it comes and you don't have a mutual agreement on the other side of Europe or America, and you can't prove that you've secured the safety of your own businessmen, your politicians, and he says: "I won't cooperate with you." E, he won't do it, so you take it away and bring it back. Why don't we do this? I'll tell you one thing about the safety of personal data, one of our friends told me that, yes, there was the safety of some data that was relevant to cases. These cases are the last I've seen on the KCK case, especially some of the issues. Well, some personal data is subject to cases, but they can't be brought there, and if this law comes, it's a crime, whoever brought him there committed a crime, whether he's a prosecutor or a judge, whoever he is. If this law comes, I think, on one occasion, all of this should be judged. So if anyone didn't bring it, and anyone who's planning on bringing it in right now, they could be planning something else. Look, I don't know about this, so let's get somebody to explain it to me, so let's just say it's not. Because when you do, there'll be a lot of crime involved, so you'll see. Also, because of the crimes committed in the virtual environment, there are people in Europe who have suffered a lot of damage because we didn't make this agreement; it may not be reflected here very often, it may be considered a technical issue, but the European Union explains our weakness in its reports on this. I'm sure the ministers know that, but if they do, why don't they plan an action on it? Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0391par0220	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the provisions passed in Article 106 of the current law bill 524 rows be changed in the form of decisions taken by the Council. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0392par0227	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0391par0228	Government? We don't agree. Read the reason. It is clear that there will be exceptions to all institutions or some of them. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 107: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second joke of the 524th amendment proposal, we request and demand the addition of the statement of the Economist Minister of Agriculture after the statement of the Minister of Agriculture and Animalism. Pervin Buldan Secret İdris Bauken Abdullah Levent Corporate Fair Zozani Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 107 of the current bill of law. After the statement from the Minister of Forest and Water Affairs at the end of the Article, we would like to add the expression of relevant NGOs. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Hasan Ören Haydar Akar Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ramazan Kerim Özkan Haluk Eyidoğan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework 107th amendment of the current law bill 524 rows be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Rusar Demirel Alim Imlum Emin Çınar Mehmet Günal "The first joke of Article 3 of the Law on the Offices and Missions of the Offices of Afet and Emergency Management No. 5902, dated 107-29/5/2009, has been changed as follows. "The Minister of National Defence, Minister of Interior, Minister of Finance, Minister of National Education, Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Minister of Health, Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications, Minister of Family and Social Policy, Minister of Development, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petty, and Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs established. The council meetings can be called by concerned ministers, institutions and organisations, representatives of NGOs and experts on the issue. The board is tasked with approving plans, programmes and reports on disasters and emergencies. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0393par0259	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0391par0260	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: Decisions regarding the formation and mission of the High Council of Disasters and Emergency are being made clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 107 of the current bill of law. After the statement from the Minister of Forest and Water Affairs at the end of the Article, we would like to add the expression of relevant NGOs. Ramadan Kerim Özkan (Burdur) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0394par0271	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0391par0272	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Altay, who will speak?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0395par0275	Haluk Eyiborn will speak.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0391par0276	Mr. Eyeborn, come in. All non-signed friends -- I'm saying it for all parties -- then finish it. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0396par0279	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in this bag, even in the law we can call a sack, are the 3rd and 4th articles on the AFAD, which are founded in 2009 with high hopes of reducing disaster risks. We've said over and over again about Law 5902, this law must be rewritten. We said this law must be rewritten. But it's still being corrected by certain substances within the bag of laws, but I think it's hopeless. I mean, the government thinks it's going to perfect this law on reducing disaster risks by fixing certain substances, but unfortunately, there's no sense in the world of reducing such disaster risk. He's going down the wrong road on government AFAD. So we've expressed it over and over again. Now, there is a change in the law in Article 3 of Law 5902. There are two goals: one is to add the ministries and some institutions that are not mentioned in the text of the law, which were established later, whose names have been changed. It's an understandable arrangement. However, another change is being made, what is that? The High Council of Disasters and Emergencys is taking out a sentence from the third article on this. What's that sentence saying? The meetings of the Kurul can be called to concerned ministers, institutions and organizations, representatives of NGOs and experts on the matter. They have said that they are gracious, that they can be called, that they can be called. This genius has disturbed the government. This sentence has been changed: the relevant institution and organisation, representatives of NGOs and experts on the subject have been removed from here. Why was it removed? Because there's a situation here that bothers the government and the Prime Minister: representatives of civil society institutions and relevant experts. I mean, NGOs and participation, one of the fundamental stones of democracy, are being removed from here. Why? We know the government's view of NGOs in the events. Mr. Prime Minister, you know he doesn't want NGOs, and he doesn't want the forces to break up. What did he say in 2012? ▪ Bureaucratic oligarchy and judgment, we are stuck with them. There's another obstacle for the Prime Minister, NGOs, NGOs he doesn't like. So, the removal of these NGOs in Article 3 of this AFAD is not scientific and technical, but purely arbitrary and personal. Look, I'm going to give you an example of a social event that we had last year that everybody knows about. What is this social event? It's the Historical Travel Park thing. On the 17th day of the resistance in the Travel Park, the delegation, consisting of NGO representatives and artists, is called to the Prime Minister's residence at the invitation of the Prime Minister. The meeting lasts three and a half hours. The meeting is controversial from time to time. Mr. Prime Minister, during this meeting, know your position on the committee. Take the young ones, and if you don't take them, we'll clean them up. When Mr. Prime Minister describes DİSK Secretary General Arzu Çerkekoglu as an extremist unionist, he needs to see the sociological truth behind the issue. When the Prime Minister says, "We know sociology and psychology, we are politicians." He says, "We are politicians." He leaves this NGO meeting, leaving the delegation he invited alone. Of course, if that's how the Prime Minister sees the NGO, then you're going to remove the relevant NGO in this article and the relevant things about it, and that's what you're going to call it. Later, Mucella Builder, Ali Çerkeoğlu, Beyza Metin, DİSK Secretary General Arzu Çerkeoğlu were detained and searched by police. The police who went to search Çerkeoğlu's house say they called Çerkeoğlu and broke down the door because the phone was busy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Today's news is even worse. The prosecutor demanded that these NGO representatives be tried under Article 220 of the Turkish Penal Code. If the indictment is accepted, these NGO representatives will be charged with two to six years in prison on charge of criminal organization charges. You see what happens to occupational and NGO hostility. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0397par0287	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second joke of the 524th amendment proposal, we request and demand the addition of the statement of the Economist Minister of Agriculture after the statement of the Minister of Agriculture and Animalism. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Do you agree with the commission motion?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0398par0294	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0397par0295	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: In our country, where natural disasters often occur, these disasters affect the economy directly in the region, where they are parallel to its size and its effects. For example, the negativity caused by the Van earthquake in the region's economy remains in effect today. This motion aims to include the Minister of Economics on the High Council of Disasters and Emergency. Thus, in the region where the disaster took place and affected the economic situation and the development of its healing policies, the Minister of Economy will make a positive contribution. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions in Article 108, which I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 108 of the current bill of law. After the declaration of "other ministries and organisations" at the end of its Article, we would like to add the declaration of "interested NGOs." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Ramazan Kerim Özkan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Hasan Ören Aykut Erdoğdu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second statement of Article 108 of the 524-line law proposal, we request and demand that the statement of "The Minister of Economics, Agriculture and Animalism" be added after the statement "President of the Kızılay Association of Turkey or mayors in the region where the emergency or emergency has occurred and has been affected." Pervin Buldan Secret İdris Bauken Abdullah Levent Corporate Tiger Fair Zozani Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 108 in the framework of the current law bill 524 rows to the following form. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş Emin Çınar Rusar Demirel Mehmet Günal "The first sentence of Article 4 of Law 108-5902 has been changed as follows. "The Ministry of State Defense, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Health, Transport, Maritime and Ministry of Communications, Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Ministry of Energy and Social Policy, Ministry of Food Agriculture and Animalism, Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, Minister of Development, President of the Ministry of Emergency and Emergency, Chairman of the Ministry of Emergency, Chairman of Turkey, President of the Ministry of the Redwoods, President of the Ministry of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Social Policy, Chairman of Other Ministry of Energy and Resources, Minister of Food Agriculture and Animal Development, Minister of Environment and Development, Minister of Forestry and Water, State of Emergency, and State of Emergency. The board is tasked with co-ordination between institutions and organisations and NGOs before disaster and emergency situations, preparation and harm reduction, disaster and emergency responses, after which to assess efforts to improve, to determine measures to be taken, to ensure the implementation of these measures, and to oversee them. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0399par0326	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0397par0327	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Read the reason. Decisions regarding the formation and mission of the High Council of Disasters and Emergency are being made clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second statement of Article 108 of the 524-line law proposal, we request and demand that the statement of "The Minister of Economics, Agriculture and Animalism" be added after the statement "President of the Kızılay Association of Turkey or mayors in the region where the emergency or emergency has occurred and has been affected." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0400par0338	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0397par0339	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Motive... This motion aims to include the Undersecretary of the Minister of Economy and Emergency Co-ordinating Board and the mayor or mayor of the region, where disaster or emergency situation has occurred and affected it. We'll just have to look at the Van Earthquake to see how important this motion is to be accepted. The negativity caused by the Van earthquake in the region's economy is still in effect today and still has not developed a regional economic policy that will eliminate the negative impact of the earthquake. The undersecretary of the Minister of Economy should be assigned to this board in that sense. In the separate Van earthquake, the Mayor of the Metropolitan was kept out of work for a long time. This has caused serious negatives in itself. The presence of mayors in charge of disaster and emergency municipalities during the duration of the disaster in these co-ordination boards will contribute greatly to more effective and faster work. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 108 of the current bill of law. After the declaration of "other ministries and organisations" at the end of its Article, we would like to add the declaration of "interested NGOs." Aykut Erdoğdu (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0401par0350	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0397par0351	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Erdoğdu, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0402par0355	Mr. President, I've made a pledge on Article 108 of Bill 524. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the provisions within the bill, unfortunately, now carry provisions that could result in the government's arbitrary censorship of the Internet, which unfortunately concerns us and the other opposition. So, why does the government need this? Because the government claims it's been facing a parallel structure recently. Dear friends, I'm the MP of the main opposition party, and I'm not parallel, and I'm a very steeply placed MP. And this isn't about the parallel, I'm just telling you so you know. Recently, the Prime Minister is looking for a television station manager and asks that the director of this television station, the opposition leader, Mr. State Gardenlı, not even be quoted in subtitles. Now, I'll tell you a little bit about the background of this situation, how we've become like this, my dear friends, this is a network owned by a company that operates in mining and energy operations. Now, do you remember, there was a referendum on September 12, 2010, just before that referendum, there were coal mines called Meadow, and this group is building a thermal plant in the meadow coal mines, and this group wants to buy coal mines there. The government first tenders these coal mines, doing what it has to do. At the time, the group panics because if the coal mines are auctioned off, another group can take it and put it in economic difficulty, right before the referendum and during this referendum, suddenly, this Haberturk daily Bakir Coshkun is laid off. As Bekir Coshkun was laid off, this newspaper is entering an operation that supports the campaign of the structure that you and today's parallel structure, and making a documentary three days before the referendum; this documentary officially wants to vote on music. And you're voting with 58 percent -- despite all our struggles -- which I see you regret today -- and these coal mines are given to this company this time without bidding, dear friends. It's taken into account, it's given to this company in an impossible way, coal mines. Not only that, but there's a Yellowy Dam next to it. This company draws 17 million cubic metres of water from the Sariyar Dam, and there is no exception to its drawing water, my friends. This is not the end, our political rivalry continues with you: other transactions are being made to keep this newspaper and television. What do you do? Our asphaltite mines in Şırnak are assigned to the thermal plants of this group, dear friends. But you know what hurts the most? Elbistan mines are being given to this group and the Elbistan mine, and you're making such a contract that this group starts digging in the Elbistan mine without any security measures. As he digs, there are cracks, seismic movements start, obviously the mine will collapse, yet, he brings down his workers, collapses, and 11 workers are trapped in a cave-in, and nine of them still can't be removed. We're being tried, but the Minister of Energy won't allow it, dear friends. The Minister of Energy won't allow this to be judged, the case against those nine innocent mining workers. That's not the end of it. There's privatisation of the troona mines. It doesn't end with that, my friends, that the TMSF, Show TV and Evening, who auctioned off a toy, gives it to this group without a contract, and a gentleman who we know has nothing to do with this group is assigned to this group as a general broadcast coordinator. After that, the Prime Minister calls from Morocco, saying not to mention the bottom of the summer. Dear friends, this shows that we have reached the final point of democracy. You leave us no choice as opposition. You're down to the government, you're in the media, there's nothing we can do to make our voices heard. Is it going to communicate with smoke? We're sending carrier pigeons to our own constituents?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0403par0363	Have you been down before?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0402par0364	We've never collapsed before, my dear friend, that's a very cheap approach.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0403par0365	You say, "Don't fall."
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0402par0366	When... the last time we were in power was in the 1970s. If we were in power, this country wouldn't be like this. Unfortunately, this country is like this because it's your mindset. So today, we live in a country that sucks from traffic to corruption, because of this right mentality. I'm asking you because you're saying one thing and you're not thinking about the other. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0404par0369	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 109, which I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the 524-line bill, which is currently in session, is regulated by the regulation of Article 109. We propose and submit the introduction of the declarations, which are not in violation of the general provisions, before their declarations. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş Emin Çınar Rusar Demirel Yusuf Halaçoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second joke of Article 109 of the proposed 524 rows be changed in the following manner. The staff of the General Directorate's Technical Services Class is appointed according to the ranking of the Group B. Pervin Buldan Secret İdris Bauken Abdullah Levent Corporate Fair Zozani Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 109 of the current bill. We request that the item be removed from the text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Kemal Ekinci Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0405par0395	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0404par0396	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Sower, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0406par0400	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have been promised Article 109 of the 524 main law under discussion. Mr. President, I salute the entire House in front of you. Although there was a law on the agency and its duties of Highways No. 6001 on 25/6/2010, three and a half years later, new additions began to be made. Turkey's conditions were the same three and a half years ago, and Turkey's conditions are the same today. When we think about it, if we make a law, if we add it to our minds, there's bound to be some hesitation in one's mind. There is no change in Turkey's conditions -- nor in Turkey's geography -- or in Turkey's physical conditions -- after three and a half years. Although the employees to run are received with KPSS, they are also requested for oral interviews. There's only one reason for that, is to take care of people, people he knows, people he knows. Mr. General Manager is here. I told you at the budget speech. The degeneration of an institution is about the personnel movement. If you include the cult, the congregation, the integrity, there will be no length of life for that institution. Why do you need it? It's said that in Turkey's conditions, we can't find people to work in the east, southeast. Usually they work for a short time, either they want a transfer, or, for some other reason, they're moving away from their workplace. Number two: If the KPSS is a female, they either get married or they get pregnant, they have children, so we can't have them. Three and a half years ago, our women, our working women, were they not allowed to get pregnant? Didn't they have the right to be mothers three and a half years ago, and they have the right to get married? It's all made up. For him, you can't be convincing. You can't convince us. If you're so sincere about this, you can record an interview with a camera, and no one will worry. We don't have anything to say about that. But instead, you don't have to employ people who are close to you in the staff movement, for reasons that are pure and simple. If the General Directorate of Highways, our Minister of Transport -- very new -- wants to revisit the highways in this regard, first, let him improve the rights of the personnel he employs. Talented, working, competent personnel can't keep up with the highways. And no one works for that fee. The General Manager is here, I'm asking you: you can't hire a chief engineer, a control engineer, a land engineer, a construction chief for that price. Once he's got the information, he'll switch institutions immediately for better pay and go somewhere else. Now, in that understanding, an organization can't sustain itself for long. No matter what you do, you can't convince anyone. There's only one thing that can be done, and in the future, it's basically, if you're going to have an employee, you have to get it on tape. There's a lot of subcontractors working for the agency. You're dragging those contractors, even though their legal rights are court-ordered. If only you could give us the rights of those contractors when we were thinking about hiring some of them like this. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0407par0410	Thank you, Mr. Sower. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current law bill 524 rows is regulated by the direction of Article 109." We offer and propose the addition of "no violations of general provisions" to come before their declarations. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends Commission?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0408par0417	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0407par0418	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Motive... The regulation for appointment and transport procedures is intended to comply with the general provisions. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the second joke of Article 109 be changed as follows by the proposed law proposal 524 rows. "For the staff of the General Directorate's Technical Services Class, the People's Staff Selection Exam (B) Group is appointed according to the score order." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0409par0430	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit07spe0407par0431	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Motive... In recent years, the AKP has also expanded the interview test, rather than putting directly KPSS points into public staff assignments. The post-season interview, which began with expert recruitment, has been widely conducted until the picking up of forest conservation officials. The spread of the interview on public recruitment in an environment where the claims of recruitment are constantly on the agenda is causing the public's anxiety of the level of neutrality and objectiveness to increase the credibility of a public procurement regime, which is already controversial. This offer aims to end the favor of this man and not retain the public staff as a political force. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-05sit08spe0407par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Congressmans, the Council of Counsellors has a proposal that I will have read and process and submit to your votes. The following proposal was approved by the General Assembly at a meeting Wednesday (March 5/2/2014). Cemil Cicek Mahir Ünal Engin Altay Turkey's Grand National Assembly Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party The President's Group is the Vice President of the Vice President's Group Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The General Assembly's merger Thursday (February 6, 2014) has been recommended to continue its work until the completion of its talks with Bill 380. Anybody want a word on the counseling board proposal? No. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We'll resume the talks of Bill 524. [[Continue]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 534, which is ranked in the fifth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. On Thursday (February 6th 2014), the decision to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order is at 14 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
