tbmm-2014-11-26sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0001par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The opening roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to İzmir MP Hülya Güven, who asked for a comment on International Fight Against Violence Against Women. Here you go, Mr. Trust.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0002par0015	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers have taken an off-the-book commitment to the Women's Fight Against Violence Day, and I salute the grand delegation. Congressmans, we're all aware that violence and murder of women have been increasing. Hence, from time to time, various motions have been made to investigate for the past four years. Also, there's a lot of information about violence and the number of murders on the woman, and we can't get to the facts because the relevant ministries leave our questions unanswered. And we also know that most of the murders are reflected as suicide. A study by NGOs shows that men killed 214 women and 10 children in 2013. The number of violence against women is also very thought - inspiring in the statistics of the gendarme region. In 2013, the number of victims of 13.551 domestic violence has been determined to be 12.22. In particular today's issue, I would like to address our women's deputies: Why is violence increasing, is it considered? You won't miss the bat from the woman's belly, or the bat from the back of her back. Isn't it true that her speech and her speech are not equal again, that she has no equality in her body? Isn't it the discounts on child rapes of his own volition? Actually, there's a lot more to it than that. The woman's clothing is mixed up in how many children she's given birth to, how she's giving birth, how she's walking the streets, so women are being sent messages that men can inflict violence on. If we are present as women at this time, if we can work as members of the group, vice president of parliament, as ministers of parliament, if we can have a say in the government of the country, we also owe it to the women of Anatolia who fought the heroic enemy of the Battle of Salvation. For their children's future, they fought heroically on the front lines to help a poor nation from war prosper. We also owe it to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who founded the republic with them and knowing the importance of women. Let us not forget the Battle of Salvation, the Black Fatma, the Makbule of Gördes, the Habibe of Domanic, the Sherife, Nene Hatun, and many other heroic women. In Gaziantep, let us never forget Fatima. During the fight against the French, the unwanted Yirik Fatma replied, "Is my blood cuter than yours?" Yes, members of lawmakers, is the blood of us women very different from the blood of men, but there is no equality in her body? Is our blood white? If the man is violent yesterday, it is because of the woman who raised the man. The responsibility was tried to impose upon us women. Yes, indeed, if a woman is not trained, brought up from her childhood with superstitions and humiliation, preventing her from getting the right information, they will bring up a worse generation than they did. Isn't that the purpose of the 4+4+4 system that was brought in? So, don't girls in particular get less and less schooling? Daughters are locked up in houses today and children's marriages are opening up. Congressmans, let's take care of the achievements of our republic. Let's stop politics over women. Let's take care of the children of our country, the children of those who come to our country with immigration, because they are our future. Let's build a country for women and children where there's no violence. We're the ones who've been reaching out for years. Even if it's election time, the fact that the research commission has been established is a big step. I offer my regards to the results of the commission's work and its results. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0003par0025	Thank you, Mr. Trust. The second out-of-date statement belongs to Yalova MP Basal Coshkun (the Yalova MP), who asked for a comment on Teacher's Day, Week and investments in education. Here you go, Mr. Coshkun.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0004par0030	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I think the value given to our esteemed teachers on November 24th Teachers Week, as well as their problems and demands, the investments, the opportunity and resources given to the teacher are important. Let's take this opportunity to remember the past, the situation of the teacher, the opportunities for education and investments. Praise be to God, where we come from is a good point. The teacher's salary, which was $470 in 2002, reached 2,148 TL, with the exception of additional tuition fees, as of 1 July 2014. In 12 years, teachers' salaries increased by a total of 357 per cent. In 2002, we increased the number of universities, 76, to 176. In our 12th year, we opened a total of 100 universities. In 2003, we raised our academic number from 76,000 to 130,000. We respected our teachers' standards, their beliefs, and their thoughts, and we helped to remove obstacles. The vocational schools, especially the Imam-student schools, have re-lived. We built a third of our total number of classrooms during our rule. In 11 years, we distributed 1 billion 754 million free textbooks. The cost is $3 billion. We've taken significant distances in training. From eight years of uninterrupted education to 12 years of mandatory and gradual education. The difference in coefficients in college, the injustice has been solved. In 2002-03, primary schooling was 90 per cent in the school year, while in 2013 it reached 98 per cent. We strengthened our training staff with about 460,000 teachers appointed during our rule, reaching the total number of 850,000 teachers. The current number of teachers has been appointed during our rule. The latest news that our Prime Minister has appointed 15,000 teachers has given the education community a separate breath. In 2002, the central budget split into education was 11 billion, while in 2014 it increased 710 per cent to around 78 billion. Mr. President, we have significantly improved our living standards, along with valuable lawmakers' education and health investments. With the Marmaray Project, the Istanbul Eurasian Tunnel Project, we became a country the world admires by the third throat bridge, by the third airport. The 4th largest bridge in the world is being built in the area of our Yalova. Istanbul-Yalova-Bursa and İzmir are connected by the most modern road network. İstanbul's Yalova is a six-minute drive, Bursa is an hour, Eskişehir is a two-and-a-half hour, İzmir is a four-hour drive. An average of $4 million per day is spent on this project that will save both time and energy. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, our Yalova, are one of our cities ahead of our education. In our Yalova, we serve 39,042 students with 160 schools and 2,620 teachers in 1,767 classes. I thank them from here. In terms of basic education, we will continue to take significant distances in the subject of the classroom and take these as well. And in this speech, while I strongly deny violence to women, as I express my respect to all our women, it is with these feelings that teachers celebrate again the Day of Teachers on November 24th, and I say that teachers are architects who build the world. Greetings to all teachers.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0005par0043	Thank you, Mr. Coshkun. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy, who wants to talk about suffering in Turkey's history and facing the past. Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0006par0048	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book promise to face the past and apologize for the painful events in Turkey's history. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the debate on the state's past is becoming increasingly important both in our geography and elsewhere in the world. Unfortunately, due to the painful past, Turkey still has an attitude towards not accountability, covering up many massacres. It is also pragmatic that the massacre of my class is sometimes expressed by the AKP government and is intended to save daily politics. The government's apology, however, does not mean that past crimes can be avoided by an apology, that they can close a period and move on. You know that what happened must never happen again, and the conditions for the inner peace facility must be established. Faced with this aspect of the past and apologize are directly related to what kind of society we want to live in and what kind of future we want to build. Dear lawmakers, some painful events in the past have come to the agenda of politics from time to time. However, over 20,000 Kurds are wanted to be forgotten about the Zilan massacre. As it is known, the Kurds who were subjected to rejection and denial along with the formation of the republic have started riots all over again and again. There were 24 Kurdish riots in 17 years until 1921 Koğgiri, 1924 Nasturi, 1925 Sheikh Sait, the River, Sason, and 1926 First Ache, 1927, Second Ache, 1930 Zilan, Oramar, Third Ache and 1938. Many of these riots began and ended with great massacres and crimes of humanity. The Kurds who took refuge in Zilan Valley with the riots were subjected to a full genocide by the Army Commander Salih Pasha of the period. Turkish planes bombed the Geliye Zilan region, and the mountains and streams were under fire. The area was surrounded by tens of thousands of soldiers and a massive massacre was carried out. He was killed by human machine guns of all ages and sex, from newborn to 90. Look, I'd like to read to you a story from the past, a newspaper article: There's about 1,500 songs left in the hills of Mount Pain, defecting to holes. Our Thais bombard them violently, and Mount Pain is constantly roaring and roaring in the fire. This is a report in the Cumhuriyet daily, and it was published in the Cumhuriyet daily on July 16, 1930. Again, according to the July 1st 1930 decree of the emerging General Staff, the villages of the villages in the riot zone will be completely burned. For those who did so, there is also a protection law. According to Law No. 20 July 1931 and Act 1850, from June 20, 1930 to December 10, 1930, there will still be no crime in the pursuit of riots, military or civil authorities, soldiers or rangers or other acts committed in Erzincan Province, including the Pülmür and First Investigation Zone, including Erciş, Zilan, Ağan, and the surrounding areas. Dear lawmakers face and face numerous state backgrounds in order to establish social peace, peace in history. This happened in Chile, in America, in Australia, in England. The Roboski massacre was carried out by this government, but still, three years later, there was no apology about it. What needs to be done is to establish a commission in Parliament to face the past immediately within the framework of ongoing peace talks. Continuity and continuity are essential in the state tradition. Therefore, because of crimes and massacres in the past, this government cannot say that it has nothing to do with us. The state is responsible for all the painful events and must answer for them. Apology is a virtue, honoring man and state. I hope and wish that the state of Turkey will face its past and know how to apologize to the public. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0007par0056	Thank you. Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0008par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, when we look at history, there have been riots in history in many states. It's called "The Insurgent." Rebellion means defying the government. If you rebel, the state will form its state and suppress the rebellion, no matter who it is.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0009par0062	He doesn't have to.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0008par0063	Thus, if history is to be faced with such events, they must first think about why the rebels rebelled and why they defied the government, why they were armed, and why they killed many people. So that's how it's supposed to start at the beginning. We also say in the matter of Dersim, we say that if the subject of my lecture is to be thoroughly investigated and what is intended to be discovered, then all of the events that occurred at that time -- including relations with foreign states -- should be investigated in detail, and that, in the beginning, the archives of Italy, France, Britain and Russia should be reached, along with Turkish archives, if there really is a mistake the state has made. As a matter of fact, in the Armenian case, the Turks specifically asked the diaspora Armenians to apologize or face their dates. The state of the Republic of Turkey has called on Armenians and has also called on other states to set up a commission of international historians, offering to investigate and conclude this issue in detail. This has actually shown how comfortable the Republic of Turkey is to face its history, and the fact that the other states disagree has actually shown how politically they offer it. There have been many different events in history. Not only was there a small riot, but only 30 million people lost their lives in World War II and 60 million people in World War II. How many of these millions are soldiers, how many are civilians, children, women? And if you think about it, unfortunately, it's hard to say that there have been some very pleasant events in human history, because war, unfortunately, is one of the worst events in history that have such consequences. The important thing is that it's the right way to sit down and talk and come to a conclusion with a mind before you're ready to fight again in your time.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0010par0067	Mr. Halaçoglu, I'd appreciate it if you could wrap it up.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0008par0068	Therefore, it is necessary to act in a situation that does not challenge wars. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0010par0070	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0011par0071	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0010par0072	The speaker, Mr. Aksoy, used the word "seminalism" during his speech regarding some painful events in the past. I think it would be more realistic not to use such words. Yes, there have been some painful events in the past, and that's the title of your speech. We all owe it to each of us to share those painful events, to carry the responsibility, but I think it would be healthier if we brought these matters up in a way that we can all share in our language and style. Thank you. HALIL AKSOY- Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0012par0075	We had this argument the other day, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0010par0076	Mr. Aksoy, what is your request?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0013par0077	Once, it's only fair to describe the death of 20,000 people or millions of people expressed in similar numbers as a catillam, in some other way...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0010par0078	I mentioned genocide.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0013par0079	But it doesn't mean that the massacres of the past don't mean that they have to continue today. Therefore, I would like to take your word for what the congressman has stated.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0010par0080	You want to make a statement?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0013par0081	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0010par0082	If you're going to explain, please, take your seat. I'd appreciate it if you could wrap it up in a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0014par0086	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are now at Ercish, Zilan, Ağrı Mountain Airport where 20,000 people have been killed during this period of time, which has been constantly monitored and continued to take place. But right now, after today, we have to take certain measures to prevent these massacres from happening. Now, my congressman is speaking; my grandfather, my uncle, my uncle, my uncle were murdered there, and here we are, sitting under a roof, sitting under a roof. Shouldn't we at least apologize to each other so we can talk more freely under a roof or even shake hands? And we must have a stance to make sure that these events in the past -- not after today -- don't happen after today -- don't happen after today. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There have been times in the past when he played the role of a party that belonged to our friend in question. For example, he played his part in the poppy crop, problem solved.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0015par0090	If you do, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0014par0091	He played his part in the execution, the problem is solved, but after today, we expect him to play a part in solving a big problem like the Kurdish problem, and we certainly hope they have something on it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0015par0093	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. Congressmans, the presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are resignations from the commissions, I'm having them read: On 18/11/2014, I resign from the Interior Commission, which I am a member and spokesman for because I was elected President of the Security and Intelligence Commission. With all due respect, I do. On 18/11/2014, because I was elected head of the Security and Intelligence Commission, I resign from the National Defence Commission, which I am a member and spokesman for. With all due respect, I do. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Hate speech that has been in Turkey for a long time, and has recently grown remarkably visible, is developing, and based on that, hate crimes are being committed. In society, these forms of non-responsibility, insults, hostile rhetoric and violent attitudes lead to unresolvedness. These hateful attacks on the media, education, politics and so on. It is supported by structures, causing bigger problems. In order to prevent hate speech and hate crimes on different identities, to investigate whether the government's policies on this matter are effective, we demand the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. [[Mardin]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] In Turkey, hate speech and hate crimes have been a very common problem in social and political life in recent years. Hate speech and hate crimes related to this expression are a known fact throughout Turkey's history. The incidents of September 6th versus the non-Muslims versus Maras, Çorum, Sivas and Gazi massacres and historically hate crimes against the Alekis and the Ezidis, and ethnic hate crimes against Kurds, Armenians, Suryans, Jews, and Greeks, are exemplified. The fact that existing hate speech and crimes are not legally based and that their perpetrators are not legally tried in connection with this has led to the fact that today's killings of hate cannot be ended. The murder of Father Santora in Tripoli in 2006, the murder of Hrant Dink in 2007 and the killing of three people at the Summit Publishing House for spreading the Bible in Malatya, the murder of Ahmet Yıldız by his family in 2008 and the assault against Ahmet Turk in Gebze on the grounds that Kurdish workers were harassing his neighbors, and the use of banners containing hatred against Armenians during the February massacre in Istanbul, and the beating of slogans on Batman in March are the most remarkable examples of the attack against Ahmet Turk. The separatist and hostileizing language for different identities that exist in Turkey is also produced and normalized by the media. In 2010, Professor Yasemin Enceoglu stated that in the National Press Study of Hate Crimes: 10 Years 10 Examples of the Social Change Association, as a tool of the dominant ideology of the media, social anger and hatred have been directed against others while reinventing nationalism and racism. The Hrant Dink Foundation reported in 2012 that discrimination against Kurds was produced by the Peace and Democracy Party (BDP) and that homosexuality was described directly as a threat to the community, while trans-members were described as a threat to the community. The law on hate crimes against preventing hate crimes and punishment for those who committed these crimes has come to the agenda. In January 2012, various NGOs and individuals who felt that the law was an obligation and that it had to be done urgently launched a signing campaign under the name "I Want the Law on Hate Crimes." This long-standing work failed to become part of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's agenda, and during that time, different identities in society, including the Kurds and Alevis, were exposed to hate speech by Prime Minister Erdogan. On the other hand, last month's film "The Innocence of Muslims" caused violent protests in the Islamic world on the grounds that Muhammad was insulted. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, on this matter... International regulations must be made to promote attacks on people's holy, religious beliefs... I'm instructing national law that insulting values, beliefs should be considered a hate crime, so let's do it right away. Turkey will lead the world in this regard. Prime Minister Erdogan made a subjective comment by linking the concept of hate crime with words that only insult Islam. The law on hate crimes, unlike maintaining one religion, one nation, must aim to cover all differences in society. As part of all these problems, we demand that the research commission of our Constitution, the 98th Amendment, 104th and 105th Articles of our Civil Code be established in order to ensure that hate speech normalizes within the community and the dangerous results of hate crimes on individuals and society will be conducted in order to address the problem that exists. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th and Civil Code, in order to investigate the problems of families with autistic children and to determine solutions. Autism is a neurobiological disorder that is considered to be caused by the different structure of the brain and nervous system or its function. Autism, which prevents interacting with others and allows one to be alone with his own inner world, usually appears before the age of three and affects individuals' social interactions, interactions, and behavior negatively. Autistic children are incapable of social interaction, unable to respond to other people's feelings or their thoughts with appropriate responses; they have object obsessions; they hold on to any object, especially hard objects; they carry them, twist them, turn them, or smell them; they show extreme sensitivity to sight, hearing, taste, smell, or touch in some of their senses; they are insensitive to pain; they do not react to pain, when they fall, when they fall, when they are injured; they experience extreme activity, or lack movement; they are insensitive to danger. The genetic effects of autism are important. Recent research to shed light on the causes of autism has also found that genetic, brain functions, immune factors are among the causes of autism, organic, neurological, or biological factors. There are also studies that show that autistic children are sensitive to unexpected life changes, breakups, lack of stimuli, and other stressful situations. One of the hardest and most stressful moments for a family is when they first learn that their children have autism. Parents are faced with a critical and vital question from this point on: What should I do to help my child? What treatments should I take? How should I treat him? Families with autistic children experience widespread concern about what awaits them and what their children will be like in the future. It is especially difficult to look at the situation at a very early age and see what point the child will reach and how it will improve. Families don't know if their children can talk first, then, whether they can go to school or not, what kind of challenges they'll face if they leave. As long as the child's condition is noticed early and educated, the monitoring of the child and the revealing of his strengths and weaknesses lead to family and educators. Families with autistic children face serious difficulties when dealing with their children's health problems. The lack of spaces for autistic children in hospitals are some of the shortcomings, such as lack of psychological support centers. Autistic children's education is also one of the main problems. The lack of teachers to provide school and special education for these children puts families and children in a difficult position. Other than that, the psychological challenges that parents face when dealing with these problems are among the biggest problems they face. A parent who raises a normal child during the development of children requires greater responsibility and work, so there is a great lack of psychological support for these families. For all these reasons, we believe it would benefit us to open a parliamentary investigation to determine the problems of autistic families and to investigate solutions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the opening and demand of Parliamental research under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the immediate measures taken in order to determine the full, equal and effective participation of disabled citizens and all physical arrangements that will enable them to benefit from services equally from other individuals. 08/10/2012 1) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu (Izmir) [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] 4) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] 5) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Lug]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[Kastamon]] [[Kütahya]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Samsun]] [[Erzurum]] [[Kayseri]] [[Paddles]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] By July 7, 2012, all physical arrangements to ensure that public institutions and local governments and disabled citizens benefit fully, equally and effectively from social life and services as well as from other individuals, were ordered according to the interim and interim Articles of the Act of Responsives No. 5378 adopted during the 59th Government. Law 5378's 2005 talks with disabled citizens have been voiced the importance given by the current government and have been promised by law to leave their homes, to enter both social life and working life. These promises and promises to our disabled citizens are still available in the TBM reports. As long as seven years have passed and where we have come from, the physical provisions that will ensure that our disabled citizens will benefit fully, equally and effectively from social life and services equally from other individuals and will be in their favor and that our disabled citizens, who have been waiting with hope of their commitments in 2005, are in their homes, and have been frustrated by the government's failure to fulfil their commitments to themselves. We also see that the government pursues this important and vital issue insincerely and insensitively from what has been done so far. The Prime Minister's Office, which bears the signature of Prime Minister 2006/18, has been published, but the results have not been followed. Again, despite the Prime Minister's directive dated 12/8/2008 and the article dated 12/12/2011 that the Ministry of Family and Social Affairs sent to 81 province governorship, we regret to see that it still does not take the necessary steps in this area, whether it is by public institutions or local governments. Although Law number 5378 rules what needs to be done for our disabled, the government, which should be a follower of those who have not been implemented so far, has, in June 2012, postponed the implementation of the standards of accessibility for our disabled citizens in their homes for three more years, in accordance with the law, in accordance with the law, and in accordance with the two years. Under all this information, a full, equal and effective participation of our disabled citizens in social life and all physical arrangements that will enable them to benefit from services equally from other individuals must be opened under Parliamentary research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to be identified by the TBMMM, the largest responsibility in this area, the immediate determination of measures. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Wednesday 26/11/2014 (today), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. On 22 July 2014, the Parliament's inquiry motion to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in order to investigate police violence and non-proportionate use was proposed by Vice President Idris Baluken (551 rows), which was given to the General Assembly on 26/11/2014 Wednesday, before other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. The first speaker in favour of the People's Democratic Party's group's proposal is Mr. Ertugrul Kürkcı, MP of Mersin. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0016par0247	Mr. President, my dear friends, our motion was submitted in June, and the numbers presented in June were in fact unacceptable for a single year. According to the Human Rights Association report, the torture cases in the Marmara Region increased by 200 per cent in 2011 alone. 818 people from the Marmara District have filed complaints against the Human Rights Association that they have been subjected to torture and abuse. In one year, 818 people complained that two people were subjected to torture and abuse every day in just one of our districts. But it's not just torture and abuse, it's deaths. For example, according to the Human Rights Foundation, 175 people have lost their lives in front of police barrels since 2007, when the Law on Police Affairs and Rights was adopted. That means that more or less ten people lose their lives each year in the presence of police barrels, and when we look at all of this together, there's a very strong conflict between citizens and police in Turkey, between citizens and security, facing each other. Because once the cases are examined, it will be seen that a large number of them are cases that can actually be solved, solved without force. But it's highly daring to use deadly violence against the citizen by police forces. We see that the extraordinary powers that the Law on Police Duty and Legislatives has granted to police and other security forces have been expanded in recent days to provide even greater freedom -- freedom in use of force and personal decision -- could use lethal force by any police officer's personal decision. So, what could all this mean? Could all of this really have something to do with the government's claims, a democratic process? The fewer states, the more democracies can be summarized. The less citizen's safety interference, the less administrative intervention, the more democracy. But when we look at this painting, it's clear that increasing state violence does not give us a democratic view of the regime. However, it's hard to imagine that this is the result of the police's self-function, because we have not seen that either President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been Prime Minister in the past, and now President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in the face of police violence, as a deterrent to them, as a warning that it is a crime of humanity. The closest example is the fate of four of our citizens who were killed after the attack on police officers in Bingol. These four citizens were shot to death shortly after police chiefs were killed. However, it turns out that there was no correlation between the weapons that police chiefs were killed and the weapons that were said to have been captured on our citizens. However, Prime Minister Davutoglu did not hesitate to point out strongly that those who killed police chiefs were punished. So there's a very close relationship, a right proportion between police violence and the mentality of those who run the country. Think of any country that gives police officers the authority to judge and execute themselves, and instead of facing these consequences, it speaks in a rewarding way. And after all that, I'd like to read today the President's words to our unaware friends to be an example. Our president says that in our civilization, in our national and civilized spirit, a tradesman and an artist is a soldier, an alperian, a martyr who defends his country, a martyr, a hero, a cop who establishes order when necessary, a judge who maintains justice, a compassionate brother who, when necessary, is now a stranger, as an unacceptable thing as leaving the work of a country's law to any group, to abandon its integrity and its morality? Moreover, this glorified civilization does not include ever in Ottoman civilization the moral of the guild, the tradition of the guild, the attitude of such arbitrary violence to put itself in the role of restraint. He has his own material infrastructure, his own unique law and morality. Therefore, those who call us to the Ottoman golden age with force and violence now, in fact, don't be surprised if they tell us this very soon: to hang the defendants by the hook to make them speak, to put them through the foot of the cliff, to drag them into the horses, can be an interrogation technique, because these are among the methods of the interrogation of the great Ottoman Empire, are they going to do this? So instead of making up stories from the past, we need to look ahead and into the future. Now, the police who acted the way the Prime Minister and the President said, and part of the tradesman Travel days, they did this: they went out to punish the citizens themselves. One night in Eskişehir, a college student named Ali Ismail Korkmaz was killed by police and bakers, who were beaten to death by the square, and now this trial is still going on and it's not getting any results. The most important issue is this matter of punishment. That's how many cases we're counting. In a year, we say that about two people every day have been tortured, about 10 people have lost their lives every year for police brutality, but 10 police officers haven't been charged with killing people every year, two police officers haven't been tried and punished for torturing people every day. There's a very strong injustice going on. Turkey is not an exception in this regard, it is not the only country in the world where police violence is seen, but perhaps it is taking on a unique place to be a country where police violence is not condemned by the rulers in order to appear in its image. About 50 of our citizens were killed during the recent events of October 6th and 8th. Government, Prime Minister, other government spokesman have accused our party, members of our party, executives in the region of taking part in these events one way or another. Let's say it's all true, none of it's true, but what investigation has been conducted, who's being questioned, who's being investigated, in the face of the fact that 19 of our 50 dead citizens have been killed by soldiers, police, gendarmes and special operations bullets? Let's say that all of our party members are involved in these events in any way, which law gives the government or any power to shoot them? So, it's become a very serious issue of police violence. The downside is, the new security package that's being put in the middle now, in fact, is putting the lives of all citizens at the end of a barrel by freeing the cop who already has a free hand. In this regard, we would like to ask that our Parliament take the will and launch an investigation to end this journey, and we invite you all to join us in the mission. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0017par0257	Thank you, too. The first speaker against the People's Democratic Party's group proposal is Mr. Oğuz Khan Koksal, Kırıkkale MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0018par0261	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, I salute you as you begin my words. I have made a pledge against the group proposal of the People's Democratic Party. In particular, first of all, I'd like to talk about the duties of the police officer written in the law, but of course, before I speak, I just listened to the speaker, and there's one thing I don't understand here. Are they complaining about the police, or are they complaining about justice, the courts that decide what the police say they're doing? It's not that obvious, or maybe they're complaining about both of them because they don't like it. My dear friends, given the description of the police, the police have two kinds of tasks: judicial duty, administrative duty; these are the two basic tasks. Police carry out their administrative duties and their duties using the authority vested in them by Police Law 2559 and the Law on Rights. When we look at it this way, if there is a crime committed, and the police carry out their legal duties in the criminal law and other laws. The police, on the other hand, have a duty to prevent criminal acts from being committed, especially as an administrative law enforcement agency, and to take pre-criminal measures, and to carry out their administrative duties. When we look at this point, first, I want to continue by describing the philosophy of the AK PARTY when it came to power. WHEN the EC PARTY came to power, he said: "First of all, we will maintain the balance of freedom and security. Human rights is a leading issue for us, as well as zero tolerance for torture and abuse. From this point on, the police have taken some precautions by adapting themselves to it. I just want to talk about him briefly, and then I'll go back to the relevant thing. First, when the EC PARTY came to power, it was around 30 per cent of university and university graduates, and now 90 per cent have graduated from university and college. So he tried to create a police force that was more educated, more knowledgeable, more capable of serving people by graduating from university and university, and he put a lot of emphasis on police training. At this point, more or less 50 per cent of the organization received internal training each year. Human rights and human rights were at the heart of this service education. Of course, for the police again, the balance of freedom and security, that was the most important goal when the police were serving, so on the one hand freedom, security, keeping the two in balance, so on the other side, our police acted. Then, they were advised to approach the police patiently at every opportunity, at every point, at every point, and to approach the situation with their youth and to take precautions without being harmed as much as possible. Our dear congressman just told me that I'm looking at it a little differently and I'm going to say it differently. When we look at the images of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) people being invited to the streets on September 6th, September 7th, in the face of a number of incidents taking place in the streets, in the face of the burning of public buildings, public vehicles, destruction, and destruction of public vehicles -- the police' Panzers, vehicles -- which are reflected in public, reflected on television -- it seems much more obvious how patiently the police have come to them. I want to express it here. In addition, the police department is equipped with cameras at all police stations in order to cut off the torture of police stations, or to cut down on citizens, who have already been referred to as police officers, or to those who have arrived, to cut down their position in suimuamelement, but the police, the AK PARTI authorities, are equipped with all kinds of things in particular with cameras at this point, so if you're going to act on an idea that wants to torture, abuse, you're going to be in every police station right now, you're not going to be equipped with cameras, and you're not going to record yourself, but you're not going to be able to do anything like this, because the mind of the AK PARTI authorities is at this point, and it's a very important thing. Communication is important in social events. In order to communicate well in social events, in each province, there were people who were then trained in psychological training, who were fully co-operated with universities in this matter, and through these personnel, police and citizens were tried to avoid confrontation. So, when we look at it, the AK PARTY and the police have taken every precaution on the matter, first of all, they've made the point of action through human mentality, but my dear friends, on the other hand, the police have another task. What else was he doing? I've just told you, especially when the public order, the safety of people's lives and property is at stake within their administrative duties, the police will intervene on the basis of the authority vested in them by the Law of Law and Rights, which is why they have to intervene. For him, the police force, of course, will intervene in social events when such events occur, but even at the point of intervention, it is to be very patient. The police are listed in order in the Law on Duty and Rights, saying, "This, this, these interventions can also be done." The least of all, the police are trying to intervene, starting with the smallest of them, and they do not hesitate to bring as much interference as possible to the citizens, but not to bring them to justice by doing the necessary punishment or necessary procedures to those who damage the property of others, the property of others, or the public order. At this point, our mentality as an AK PARTY was that we're not the judge of the nation, we're the people. That's what the police do with that philosophy. I would like to express this in particular here once again. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, on the one hand, the police will, of course, do their duty at the point of public order. When you do your duty at the point of public order, which is around 250,000 cops. Maybe that number's going up a little bit, it's multiplying. Even if it's federal among the 250,000 cops, there may be criminals. In this case, the agency immediately does its duty, and administrative and judicial investigations are under way. I'd like to give you an example or two: look, 500 police officers have been investigated in 2012, 420 police investigations have been launched in 2013, 299 police investigations have been launched in 2014, 98 have been punished, and there are others who have continued. So I'd like to say that the police department is now doing what is necessary to maintain public order, do what is necessary for the state to stay and continue, and do what is necessary to deal with criminals and fight and arrest criminals -- especially by stepping on them -- is doing it with great care and effort to deliver them to the judicial authorities. The wrong-doers are being punished, as in everything else, and they are being punished, and they are being punished, as well as by the judicial institutions themselves. There's nothing we can say at this point. I repeat: The police force is not an organization that is said to be an organization, but rather an organization that appeals to people's heart bridges, trying to ensure their future, working day and night to sleep peacefully when they put their heads on the pillow. This organization will do its part in its cooperation by maintaining its respect, love, and devotion to its people. In short, I would like to put it this way: the police force will continue its mission to renew itself day after day, as a feared dream of the lawless, but as a port for the oppressed to take refuge. This is where the HDP has once again expressed that we are against the group proposal, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0019par0276	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0020par0277	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0019par0278	Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0020par0279	I want a promise for bullying.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0019par0280	What did he say? Picking on what?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0020par0281	He said our complaint wasn't clear what our motion was about, what it was about.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0019par0282	It's not a tease, if you'd like, I'll give you my word on your position, make a statement.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0020par0283	Second: he made incriminating statements concerning HDP. Therefore, this must be met.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0019par0284	Actually, there's no bullying here, Mr. Furkman, I've listened very well.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0020par0285	What kind of teasing? For example, what he did, what he did. Does it mean a truth?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0021par0286	You're related to HDP, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0019par0287	If you'll excuse me, I'll finish my sentence.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0020par0288	Sure, I'll help you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0019par0289	I listened to the speech. Yes, with your group proposal, your party's group suggested that some things could not be understood, that you could not determine whether you were accusing the police or the practices. If you're referring to it as teasing, then be my guest.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0020par0290	It's not just that.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0019par0291	I promise you for two minutes because of the bullying. I think if we listen to each other, we'll work things out without any tension. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0022par0296	Mr. President, dear friends, it's clear what our motion is about. We have exhibited a series of cases, cases, which have been subjected to police violence, and the victim's injury due to the injustice of the police has been inflicted and can never be fixed for those who have already lost their lives. That's why we're complaining. In part, there may be a trial, but since it is necessary to get the police to stand trial, the fact that the judiciary does not act is primarily a matter of those who run the police force. So it's obvious where the complaint came from. Second, we do not accept that the People's Democratic Party is held responsible for the demonstrations and violence that took place in many cities in Turkey on October 6th or 8th. We have the authority to exercise our democratic rights, we don't have to ask permission from anyone to call our citizens to a meeting and demonstration. We did not invite our citizens to violence, nor did we invite persecution; on the contrary, 21 percent of our citizens who participated in these demonstrations were killed by the fire of security forces, all near our party, all in the same direction, and a significant number of them were unknown, and some lost their lives during the mutual agreement. And I welcome a former police commissioner who can't say anything about an investigation into it. 50 citizens have lost their lives and no investigations have been carried out, is that the way to run a government? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0023par0300	Thank you. The second speaker in favour of the People's Democratic Party's group proposal is Mr. Namik Havutça, Balıkesir MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0024par0307	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, of course, police violence in Turkey has become a problem of democracy and freedom that we should all be sensitive about. Look, we don't have to look at ourselves here, we have to look at how they see us from the outside. Dear friends, corruption threatens democracy, freedom in Turkey. What are you doing? After the December 17th investigations, you changed the MIT Act in Turkey. With the MIT Law, you have equipped the MIT with powers that will not exist in any democratic country. With the MIT Law, it has brought almost ordinary citizens to a point where even lawmakers can't predict what will happen to them when they walk out the door right now. Look, the police got so worked up about the violence that they finally got to the top of the Trips, didn't they? Look, Abdullah is generous, Ali ismail Korkmaz, Ethem Sarısülük, Mehmet Ayvallıtaş, Mustafa Sarı, Irfan Tuna, and the last one is Selim Önder. These brothers lost their lives in peaceful demonstrations, during travel events, while performing democratic, peaceful demonstrations, have they been investigated? No, it wasn't. Look, a month ago, I was in Balıkesir about Abdullah's generous case. Who is Abdullah Benevolent, where did this happen? It happened at Hatay. Hatay was shot and killed by a police officer. So, where is that cop now? He's in Mersin. The trial was given to Balıkesir, a distance of 1,300km from Hatay. What about the trial in Balıkesir? I'll tell you what happened: there are no defendants, no witnesses; witnesses are in Hatay, the accused is in Mersin, the case is in Balıkesir. When you look at it from the outside, with that kind of understanding... We never want to blame an entire police force here, but it is a fact that Turkey, in European Union reports, is the country that pays the most compensations after Russia in the European Court of Human Rights. Let's save Turkey. Here, all cops are torturers, we're not claiming that all cops treat people badly, but it's clear that the findings made on police officers are seriously under the pressure of political power. Look, what did the Prime Minister say after the trip? The Turkish police created epics there. My dear friends were created in the legendary Çanakkale, and in Çanakkale, they are created against the epic enemy. Can you stop that cop if the Prime Minister of a country tells the cop who killed his own sons? That cop will always write epics. Against who? Against his own citizen, his son, who demonstrates his democratic peaceful rights to travel events. I'd like to ask you from here: Did the Prime Minister, who cried to Esma, in Egypt, shed two drops of tears in his eyes after the death of our 15-year-old son? Wasn't that boy ours? Look, we don't identify these things, I'm giving you examples of the European Court of Human Rights. See, in the March 6, 2005, the Women's Day movement in Whiteıt, the Nergis Scout was attacked with pepper gas and batons, and the European Court of Human Rights condemned Turkey for violating the torture ban and freedom of assembly. Two: Europe's Human Rights Court, again, Attorney Gülizar Tuncer, who protests F-type prisons on İstiklal Street, has been severely treated, received five days' notice, courts have expired, the police have been without punishment, but the European Court of Human Rights has condemned Turkey for abuse and torture again, Turkey has not even been able to defend itself. Ali Çoban again filed a complaint to the European Court of Human Rights in 2007 for kicking, beating and using tear gas during May 1st demonstrations held in İzmir. The European Court of Human Rights found Turkey guilty and punished Turkey. Now, look, we're not saying this again. The Human Rights Watch report, published in September 2014, highlights Turkey's tendencies for authoritarianisation. My dear friends, these are not our findings, but the identification of Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, international institutions. I mean, there was nothing, and we're just here talking about nothing? Didn't the police cut off the head of our fellow teachers who were gathered in Turkey yesterday about their union rights demands? Just yesterday, the other day, in Istanbul, did he not brutally attack fellow journalists, journalists who had the right to be informed? Eventually, he attacked modern lawyers, lawyers, friends. Now this is a case. We don't want to judge an entire police force from here because we're torturers. But we have to stop, investigate, and find solutions within the police force, to attack democratic rights and freedoms, to abuse their rights and authority. Look, Turkey is already a violent society. There's violence in the family, there's violence in the school, there's a stick in the army, and our young people are a violent society in Turkey. We have to deal with this violence now. In our schools, teachers can no longer shake a student's ear, slap a student, no such thing, and those who do so will be severely punished. We have to do the same thing with the cops. Turkey has taken legal measures to prevent torture, removing torture from police stations by law in the late Ecevit era. How was it removed? In the first phase of the investigation, there was an obligation to have a lawyer present at the police stage, and the next time a police station was moved to a transparent police station, not a police station, but in street protests, we couldn't do it out there, we couldn't do it, but it had to be done. Look, my friends, Turkey's Human Rights Watch report, which contains Turkey's Regression in Human Rights Area and Reform Proposals, states that extreme steps have been taken to weaken Turkey's rule of rule of law under AKP administration, control the media and the Internet, and to intimidate those who criticize the government and the protesters. It's true. Isn't that right? It's not our findings, it's the Human Rights Watch's, it's Europe's. Now look what you've done, you brought the MIT Law. And now, as if those powers were not enough, you are trying to take steps to increase the authorities of the police, as if Turkey is not the country most criticised in Europe. He just arrived at the Commission yesterday, and we heard you stopped him right now. You're bringing in a lot of things about judgment again. Again, see what he says: reforms must be done in the criminal justice system. ▪ It says that human rights violations of the past are still being done by state officials. And the statement says the restrictions imposed on media, Internet freedoms and rights of assembly and organization must be put to rest. Who says that? That's what the European Human Rights Watch says. My dear friends, Turkey, if it's going to be a country of truly democratic freedoms, we have to face ourselves and our fears. We have to take this country out of the systematic torture country of the 1980s and make legal arrangements to guarantee the rule of law in the criteria of the European Union, which we've all accepted, which we've accepted as a civilization. Just as we've removed violence from our schools, our young people, our children, and all of Turkey's legitimate political views should be able to say freely in the streets, in the squares, and the police should be able to protect it, not by scaring them. We know there's a lot of pressure on our cop friends. We know they have psychological problems, heavy working conditions. So this motion for research will give us an opportunity to deal with it in a way. I say this is for the democracy of Turkey, to create a modern, liberal, pluralistic, human rights-affirming Turkey for our children, and I say it is necessary for the health and safety of not only our community, but those of our fellow police. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0025par0323	Thank you. The last speaker against the People's Democratic Party's group proposal is Mr. Recep Special, Isparta MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0026par0327	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. I have made a pledge against the group proposal given by the People's Democratic Party. Yes, there's been a request for a research proposal in reference to a number of false practices that the police have sometimes applied. Of course, when the speakers arrive here, every day, two citizens are subjected to torture and abuse of their citizens. If only our police officers, who were martyrs in the same conversation, had been able to give us the number of officers who were wounded by stones, sticks, and Molotov cocktails, and the number of our martyrs, we could establish justice together. Yes, the police may be misusing their authority in certain practices. The point is, is there a political will or are we behind this wrong exercise or not? Whoever's doing the wrong thing, whoever's doing the wrong thing, is being brought to justice, the required administrative, legal investigation, and getting him punished. Of course, throwing stones at police, public buildings, private businesses, vehicles, and throwing Molotov cocktails at them can't possibly be explained by any freedom, by the use of the right to perform. We will provide security and guarantee freedom. No freedom is to the end, and it's not that wide. The main thing is to establish public order. No investors come to a place where there's no public order, none of us can do politics in a safe environment, no investors, no business owners, no citizens can feel happy and peaceful. We will ensure public safety, public order. This is the support we have for our fellow police officers in the police force who provide this, and we're not always supposed to put them in the same way as the heads of torture, just because there's some sort of brutal treatment going on. If they have the wrong practices, whatever barriers there are in front of their judgment, whoever's doing it wrong, we need to raise it together. Of course, the first thing we did since December 17th is that there's probably something wrong here, like changing the MIT Law. The MIT Act took place on February 7, 2012, not after 17 December. And I'd like to correct that kind of misinformation here. Safety to the end, freedom to the end. We'd like to take out today's judicial package, which is on the agenda of HDP's proposal for the establishment of this research commission. There are improvements to the rights of equity that the judges and prosecutors have been waiting for, there's a disciplinary pardon, so let's get it out of the way. Since our agenda is clear, I say we're against it, and I give you all my regards, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0027par0334	Thank you. I put the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 26/11/2014 meeting Wednesday (now), I propose that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On October 25, 2014, the Council's motion for parliamentary research, which was issued by Ankara MP Zühal Topcu and his friends, whom we have given the head of the TBM with the 2014/2310 issue, was proposed on Wednesday (now) to be read in the General Assembly on Wednesday 26/11/2014, in which their talks will be held in the United States. In favour of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal, the first speaker is Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0028par0350	Mr. President, I have made a pledge as the National Movement Party to make a motion to investigate the problems of the teachers. We salute you all. The Day of Teachers, which we celebrated on Monday (November 24th), was actually a scene in many tragic situations. The first one in particular was the reception at the illegal palace for teachers from 81 provinces.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0029par0352	The palace is not a fugitive, Hajji.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0028par0353	This was nothing more than an attempt to legalize the illegal palace. If you invite the lovers of this country, who love this country's children and do this country's service for nothing, to this runaway palace, these practices will not be enough to blind the infinitive of the illegal palace over the nation.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0029par0354	Where in the palace is he on the run?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0028par0355	And it's so sad that on November 24th, there's been so much fancy talk about it, but in 12 years of practice, nothing seems to have happened. In fact, if it wasn't for November 24th, no one would remember the teachers. In 12 years, really, the education community workers have been consumed, finished. No promise has ever been fulfilled. If AKP power were sincere, they could do some activities or projects in order for this national educational community to step up to more positive developments in 12 years, and these teachers would be asked specifically about their views. What do you really need, what kind of system do you want? They've been brought down so hard, so hard-core, they're trying to sell it in the name of democracy. The Ministry of National Education doesn't know what he's doing, and the Minister doesn't know anything. One of the most important acts for the unity and integrity of this country is done in education. The language of education has been opened in Kurdish, and they are currently continuing their studies. We want to get this out of here. They've started their training. This is actually a step towards sabotaging our culture of co-existence. We asked the Minister specifically in the Ministry of National Education budget, and we said, "Mr. Minister, these schools have been opened, they are now in service. The minister's answer -- along with his undersecretary, they can actually be printed -- we don't know anything about that. I wonder what they know. An hour after Mr. Secretary gave this answer, there was news on their websites that they had successfully moved on with their lives and continued their education. So we're asking from here: is everything called, I don't see, I don't hear, and I don't know, under secret agreements with the terrorist leader? This is one of the most important practices of the new Turkey process, and the structure of the general state of the 12-year AKP rule is that there is poverty in our country, but there is corruption in the new Turkey; there are victims in our country, in our Turkey, in theirs; there is shame in us; there is shame in us; but there is shame in others. If this hadn't happened, the situation of the teachers we're talking about today would have at least been different. In particular, five ministers of the National Ministry of Education, five undersecretary of the Ministry, 360 senior executives, managers of the Ministry, 68 county managers, and around 200 vice principals of the AKP's 12-year administration. As we've always said, in no country in the world, such as this, in transitioning from basic education to secondary education, the exam system has not changed three times in five years. Now, when we look at it, it's run by a higher management that really doesn't understand education pedagogy, the Ministry of National Education, and especially Mr. Hunter is actually on the list of non-responsive ministers.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0030par0357	You're insulting me. It doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0028par0358	The education community has already given the Minister of Education a poor report card. The Minister of National Education has failed in class, unaware of the situation and unaware of himself.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0031par0359	You're talking about training. If you'll pay more attention to the language...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0028par0360	Because, in view of the general situation of teachers, we can actually see that the situation of teachers, the condition of the national educational community, is pathetic. And the education community is unclaimed because they used automatic pilot training for a while. Another minister compared the teachers to pigeons, and the other one works for 15 hours, and they get paid as much as this. That's not fair to the officer, he said. That's how the ministers and the prime minister testified. But despite these words, these teachers were tolerant, and they gave those words to their rawness. And now teachers have really low status because salaries are important deterrents. 30 per cent of teachers do additional work. Now, when we look at them, especially on their average salary, they get 2,150 lira -- when we add at the bottom and top, you can call it 2,200 in general -- they get paid. If you look at these salaries, believe me, they live on the edge of poverty, between the poverty line and the hunger line. Constantly, when the teacher's salaries were compared to this power in 2002, they are no longer able to make the teacher's salary comparison today. Especially when the Finance Minister's salary increase comes up, it's as if he's ignoring that job, while he's raising expenses for palaces or luxury investments, the teacher's salaries are never paid attention and this institution is recklessly spent on this establishment. 80 percent of teachers have credit card debt, they can't afford their homes anymore, they can't provide for their children, and half the teachers and teachers can see that they don't have a house of their own in recent research. Now teachers don't trust both this power and the administration because teachers don't know what to do anymore, they're desperate. This is where we share that the reputation of this profession is no longer a common belief among all teachers. Because now the teachers also share with their own minds that their influence has been reduced to zero in schools. Teachers didn't have the influence of the schools, but when it comes to speaking, the teachers are all, like, very valuable beings, very kissable beings, and here's the driving force of this education, and the way you look at it, you can actually see that teachers are in the back rows when they come to the service. We can also see that it has been abandoned, especially by this power, that the reputation of this profession has been greatly discredited. In particular, when we look at the budget, the Minister has explained to the National Education budget that 78 per cent of this budget will be spent on staff costs. With these expenses, how do you think you can provide services to teachers or educational institutions with this budget alone, and how do you think you can resolve these problems? Many schools employ subcontractors, cleaners, assistant staff, and assistant staff. So, together, we say, come, this may be the last turn, especially the teachers' problems. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0032par0368	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. The first speaker against the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal is Malatya MP Mustafa Şahin. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0033par0372	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group proposal that the esteemed MPs have made regarding the current problems of teachers. I salute you all. Before I begin my remarks, I celebrate the past Teacher's Day of all the teachers who raised our future generations in the light of knowledge throughout Turkey. As I perform this sacred profession, I regret to offer my condolences to the families of our teachers who have been killed by the terrorist organization. Dear friends, teaching, one of the world's most sacred and oldest professions, has a very important role in the process of producing, developing information and transferring it to tomorrows. Thus, like yesterday, our teachers are today the key to change, development, renewal, and walking toward further goals. The most important task of achieving our country's goals of development, change, transformation and development is with our teachers, 2023 and 2071. Given the reason-effective relationship between education and development, there is a direct relationship between higher education, quality education, spending per student, the share of education in the budget, higher education and economic development. Of course, it is our teachers who also determine the quality of education and training that will give us the most important momentum to move forward economic development, transportation, industry, health care, justice, defense. Dear friends, in this scope, we strive to provide our schools in a way that suits the needs of the age of knowledge and technology, to bring us to a better future, to provide all the opportunities and to improve our rights to our teachers who will raise those young people. However, we do not see enough of the work we did during the AK PARTY administration. Because we've moved up until now with the awareness that there's a lot to be done to solve all the problems of our education community, and then we'll act with the same consciousness. The claim that our Ministry has made against the teachers in this opinion is that the limits of mercy are compelling. Happily today, we have been given the highest share of the budget in national education. The National Ministry of Education budget was $7.5 billion in 2002, with an increase of 532 per cent in 2013 to 47.4 billion. In 2014, it was currently estimated to be 55.7 billion euros, and it increased by 642.6 per cent compared to 2002. Dear lawmakers, from 2003 to 2014 during our AK PARTI rulings, received 458,496 staffed teachers. 784,720 teachers are present at the official knitting and widespread educational institutions of our ministry, dated 30/09/2014. In addition, 847,002 teachers are involved with 62,282 educational institutions managers. As of September 2014, there are 1,582 teachers and 9,015 staff members, especially under the employment of disabled staff. Over the years, we have been constantly witnessing the classic group suggestions of our opposition parties regarding the living standards and working conditions of our teachers. In 2002, a teacher's net salary, especially at the first level of the 9th degree, was raised to $2,104, as of 1/1/2014. In 2002, the additional tuition fee for the same teacher's 60 hours a month was $165, while it was raised to $544.86 as of 01/01/2014. In 2002, with additional tuition, a teacher received a total of $635, and in 2014, $2,649. According to 2002, the same teacher received an increase of 317 per cent. Our teacher's net salary, which is $470 in 2002, is approximately $312, according to the average dollar exchange rate of $1506, published by the Finance Ministry in 2002. The additional tuition fee for 60 hours per month was $165, $109, and the total salary plus tuition amounted to $421. In the first quarter of 2014, the average dollar exchange rate of $1,076 is $278, according to $1.955, published by the Finance Ministry, which is the net salary of our teacher at the first level of the 9th degree. In total, salary plus tuition is equivalent to $1,355 in dollars. According to 2002, the increase in salary plus tuition is 933 dollars in dollars. In 2002, a teacher's education and education allowance was $175, while the grant was raised to $700 in 2012-2013 in education and teaching, and to $850 in 2013-2014 in education and teaching. There has been a 385 per cent increase in 2002. According to the computation of the latest supply and service basket in the range, an item basket, which was $100 in January 2002, makes $326 in January 2014. The total change is 226%. In this case, the new teacher's net salary appears to have increased by 121 per cent as of January 2014, when inflation was purged, except for the extra course in 2002. On the other hand, the OECD's 2014 report shows that the annual gross salary of a teacher in Turkey -- calculated using the purchase power parite for 2012 -- is 26.653 in the pre-school education level, and the OECD average is 37.350 in the first level; the OECD average is 26.678 in the first level; the OECD average is 39.024 in the second level and the OECD average is 27.607 in the second grade level, while the second level is 40.570 in the second level, and the average is 42 in the secondary level of the secondary level. There is also part of the report where teachers' salaries are evaluated in the context of Turkey, which, for some reason, is not mentioned at all. Because the report shows that teachers' salaries are quite good in comparisons of those who have the same quality of education in our country. The point is that a 15-year-old homeroom teacher's salary is 9 per cent higher than the average annual earnings of a 25-64-year-old group with the same degree of higher education. Branch teachers are 13 percent higher than other employees with the same degree level. Given the OECD average on this issue, our country appears to be among the countries that share the most in teacher's salaries within its economy. Again, Turkey is also one of the OECD countries with the highest real increase in teacher salaries from 2000-2012. Yes, dear friends, and when we look at the arrangements that we physically gave to our teachers, the number of students per class is 36 at primary school in 2002-2003, 31 at secondary school, 34 at general secondary school, 27 at vocational and technical secondary schools. In 2013-2014, 29 in primary school, 29 in secondary school, 29 in general secondary school, 29 in vocational and technical secondary school. We especially desire that our opposition parties pay attention to these details, who are always trying to make the work we do about our teachers seem small. THE EC PARTY has increased the reputation of teaching in all the studies it has done in education, in contrast to the fact that it has been proposed. Because our vision of 2023 in education is that in the 100th year of our republic, it will be one of the top 10 countries in the world, with stable growth, regional and global competitiveness, and will be one of the world's top 10 countries, providing education and environments for all who are in the region, in accordance with the development of qualified and equipped individuals. And we are aware that our teachers are the only ones who are going to make this happen. For these reasons, we don't agree with the group proposal the MHP gave us. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0034par0392	Thank you. In favor of the National Movement Party's group proposal, the second speaker is Mr. Tanju Özcan.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0035par0394	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0034par0395	Just a minute, Mr. Ozcan. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0035par0397	He compared it to 2002, so he compared it to the current government at the time. That's why I want word.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0034par0398	You're going to make a statement?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0035par0399	I'll explain.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0034par0400	Mr. Ozcan, a moment of your time. Mr. Halaçoglu, I'd like to ask your position for a moment. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0036par0405	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, he compared 2002 to the salary. Let me just say that in 2002, a teacher who had just started at that time was getting 24 quarters of gold on his salary, now he's getting 14 quarters of gold, I'll just say that.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0037par0407	How much was it, how much was it?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0036par0408	So, that explains everything, but other than that: again, according to new statistics, 55% of teachers have a house of their own, 45 percent have a house of their own; again, teachers have 53 percent of their own; teachers have an additional job; 29 percent of teachers have an additional job; 41% of the teachers have a business debt; 51% of the loans are between 51,000 and 10000 euros; 39 percent of the teachers owe money to people in cash; 79% of the loans are in debt to any bank; 28% of the loans are in addition; 51% of the teachers are in debt from the teacher's credit card; 51% of the teacher's credit card is between 51,000 and 61%; 21% of the teacher's members are between their parents; 21% of our teachers are between the parents; 21% and 41% of their parents are in debt. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0038par0410	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0039par0411	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a brief statement.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0038par0412	Is this about this?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0039par0413	It's about this.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0038par0414	Here, take your seat...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0039par0416	In 2002, the gold amounted to $300 an ounce, up to $1,600 an ounce in 2014. Right now, it's probably about $1,200-1300. In 2002, the teacher could receive 24 quarters of gold on his salary, but if he receives 12 quarters of gold today in 2002, if he is increasing by five times as much in gold as he is at $300 a gold markets in 2002, it is also an indication that there has been an extraordinary improvement when we evaluate gold prices in the world markets and look at the teacher's salary. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0038par0418	Thank you. Mr. Ozcan, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And thank you for understanding.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0040par0422	Look at the buying power.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0041par0423	Roll it when you're ready. The gas was worth $1 per liter, now it's $5. That's when you get in the car, now the car's a load. You roll it when it suits you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0038par0424	Congressmans, we're listening to the speaker. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0042par0429	Mr. President, valued MPs, of course, it's an important issue, but the ruling party's ranks are as empty as ever.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0043par0430	How is it empty, Mr. Ozcan?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0044par0431	There's more of us than you!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0042par0432	I'd like to thank the National Party for bringing up their problems. However, our teachers and our non-assigned teachers now see the truth: Here are the representatives of this power that you have brought to power, which you have contributed to it, and unfortunately, not even one of it is in the General Assembly right now, and they are not interested in your problem.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0045par0433	At the moment, there are more than 5 times the number of CHP residents in the hall.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0042par0434	Yes, we had a very nice talk here before me. I want to contribute to that. Of course, Mr. Elitaş immediately turned the numbers around, so, here's ten of the gold, and at that time, he tried to get something by playing with numbers, saying, Mr. Elitaş, look, you're not getting anywhere. In the case of the teacher, if you compare 2002 to 2014, no one will tell you that we're better off in 2014. No matter how you do the math, do the tea bagels, do the math on the basic consumption materials, everyone will see that the teacher in 2002 is much better off than the teacher in 2014.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0045par0436	He rents out half his salary, and now he rents out a fifth of it.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0042par0437	Congressmans, now, when you say the problems of teaching, you have to divide them in two. One, the problems of current teachers, about 850,000 teachers who are currently on duty, and the problems of non-assigned teachers.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0046par0438	Tell me how much was in 2002.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0042par0439	Now, look, Mr. Elitaş...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0047par0440	The right to answer...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0048par0441	We're listening, guys. We're listening.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0047par0442	But he's talking to me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0048par0443	Is he looking at you?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0049par0444	There's research they're doing, and some of it's the union that's...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0050par0445	Mr. Tanju, what was the number in 2002?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0049par0446	Mr. President, will you intervene?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0051par0447	I'll give you time. Wait a minute, Mr. Ozcan, I'll count your time. You started a conversation, so...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0049par0449	No, no, we're not having a conversation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0051par0450	That's why I was late with the intervention so I wouldn't ruin your conversation. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0049par0452	Mr. President, I know you'll give me one more minute after this.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0051par0453	I didn't say one minute, I cut you off, I said I'll add it later. Go ahead.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0049par0455	Mr. President, this is extremely important. Look, Mr. Elitaş, there are numbers that even the yellow yellow unions, even the yellow unions, who are close to you. They say that even they now say that if a single teacher works as a family head, the family lives under the poverty line in Turkey, according to the government's official Statistical Institution's research. In fact, they are about to enter the category of families living under the age of starvation. If a family of four is working together, the husband and wife are only close to the poverty line. What are you still talking about under these circumstances? Look, the minimum pension is $2.136. So, what's the latest number of poverty limits? 3.926 liras. The hunger limit is $1.205 and continues to increase every month. Now, can you still go out and say, "We've given the teachers everything in our power, and our teachers can live in prosperity"? Can you still say that? Well, shouldn't you be blushing when you say that, Mr. Elitaş? I don't notice that in you, I'm sorry to say.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0052par0458	Mr. President, he's giving me a hard time. It's the first time I've seen anyone say anything on the stand.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0053par0459	You'll answer me later.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0049par0460	Congressmans, Mr. Halaçoglu has just made a brief point. Now look, a 25-year-old teacher's salary is $2.482. We're talking about the same research. The increase in a teacher's salary in January is only $64. There'll be a $64 raise for this teacher. Now, about half the teachers have no home, no home of their own. Eighty percent of teachers owe money to banks, over 80 percent credit card debt. Look, this is very important: Do you know the number of teachers who still have help from their parents? 40%. So our current teachers are still looking at the hands of their mother's father. They're having health problems due to debt, 57 percent. Look, these studies -- they're coming to you -- please take a look at them, take a look at them, and then go out and tell them that teachers have achieved very important gains in our power. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0054par0461	Retired teachers are the same.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0049par0462	Yeah, well, it's the same with retired teachers. It's not very different from the general pensioners.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0055par0463	Tanju, where did you get this data?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0049par0464	Congressmans, this data is coming to everyone who wants it, and it's coming to everyone who doesn't, even if you don't want it to. Look...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0055par0465	Where's it coming from? In your dream, where did you see it?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0049par0466	Look, open your Twitter now, your Facebook, your message system, every day, you'll see that teachers who can't be assigned are sending you an organized message.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0056par0467	You need to read a little.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0049par0468	You'll see they're sending an organized message. They say: "Look, we've become one-third suicidal. We're in a tight spot. Fight for our appointment. Do something about it. They're constantly locking up our Twitter, our Facebook, right? Don't you get these e-mails, these messages that come to us? Look, lawmakers, you've surrendered this country with 50,000 unappointed teachers, today it's 350,000.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0057par0470	How much did the colleges go up?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0058par0471	Congressmans, please excuse me.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0049par0472	Yesterday, the Prime Minister comes out, and on November 24th, he says, "I'm going to give you a great deal of good news." What's he saying he's going to give you a great deal of good news? 330,000, 340,000 unassigned teachers announce the appointment of 15,000 teachers. Shame on you! Shame on you! Teachers have been discredited in your era. I wish you'd considered the reputation of this Abdullah Ocalan....of the teacher half as much as you think..
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0059par0474	But that didn't happen either.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0049par0475	...the teachers today would be in a much better place than where they are. At least they'd have a reputation in society. Yes, we, as opposition representatives of the non-assigned teachers, must constantly appoint these teachers from the assembly stand whenever we can, when our language turns. If you cannot appoint, take other precautions.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0060par0477	What do we do?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0049par0478	You're just saying, "What should we do?" So, what do we do? If you can't find anything to do, then let those who will solve this power come, and let them rule this country, Hajji. Now, you're saying, "What do we do?" You're saying, "We can't find a answer." You're saying, "The education schools are still opening up in Turkey." And how do you solve this problem? Every year we give away 70,000 teacher-titled graduates, $70,000.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0060par0480	No, I don't.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0061par0481	There's no such thing as a teacher's title, we're giving you an education degree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0049par0482	You're throwing away 30 grand, tops. E, it's going up 40 grand. You don't have any other solutions. How is that possible under the circumstances? But what do you say? Sir, this is your answer. So, how do you build this thousand-room palace when your treasures are limited? How do you get this new model for the President? Look, our dear teacher just gave me some information, and he said, with the cost of the building of the palace where Mr. President currently resides, you can appoint 71,000 teachers and pay them a year's salary. But you don't prefer it.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0062par0485	Then, what are we gonna do next year?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0049par0486	You tell the people there that the resources of the treasure are inadequate, and the resources of the state are inadequate, brother, but at the point of wastelessness, unfortunately, you're competing with dictators. Congressmans, there's a lot to say, but I'd like to warn you about something.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0062par0488	You're telling a good story.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0049par0489	Look, parallel structure, parallel structure... you're always crying. You've been calling it parallel structure for a year. The parallel structure did this to us, the parallel structure did this to us. Look, I'd like to give you another parallel structure warning, which is more serious: now there's a confederation called MEMUR-SEN, you know? This MEMUR-SEN Confederacy built a parallel structure within the state. East, southeast, ACK; this is what's happening in other places. Look, you realize now that you don't run the bureaucrats that you're currently appointing to the provinces as the government, that MEMUR-SEN runs the governors, the governors, the governors of the state. Look, I just gave an example here in a one-minute speech, and I said, you know, you know, there's a school manager appointment coming up in the provinces, and there's a 70-point success criteria. Do you know who passed these 70 points in Bolu? 29 principals. 26 of these 29 school principals are members of MEMUR-SEN, two are non-union members, and one is a member of Turkish Education-SEN. Well, you're looking at the numbers, the total number of members of Turkish Education-SEN is still a lot higher than MEMUR-SEN. Is that even possible? They appoint 26th of 29th. In many counties, they make national education managers of MEMUR-SEN, in fact, in many places, they pretend to be governors, but they stick their noses in all sorts of assignments. Look, I'm warning you from this bench, Mr. Elitaş, tomorrow one day, six months later, there's a second parallel structure, and we didn't know it. We sat next to them when we tried to get rid of him. Don't say that. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0063par0495	That's the first time I've seen anyone say anything on the stand.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0064par0496	I'll add 30 seconds.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0063par0497	But he thanked me, my friend.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0065par0498	Add it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0064par0499	But thank you. You said, "Thank you." Yes, Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0065par0501	Now, Mr. President, you interfered with my speech, and I...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0064par0502	Who's going to intervene? I'm sorry, I have to keep order.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0066par0503	We interfered, the president didn't.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0064par0504	I give you 30 seconds, you thank me, and yet I'm being criticized; I don't know what that's like.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0067par0505	Well, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0064par0506	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. Nationalist Movement Party...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0068par0508	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0064par0509	Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0068par0510	For the first time, the preacher was taunting and taunting a man who was sitting on the stand.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0064par0511	Right.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0068par0512	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0064par0513	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0068par0515	But you gave me 30 seconds to pick on me, so how much are you gonna give me?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0064par0516	Two minutes.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0068par0517	You give me 30 seconds, you tease me, you give me 30 seconds.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0064par0518	I'll give you two minutes, two more than thirty seconds.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0068par0519	No, you give me 30 seconds when he's picking on me...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0064par0520	No, I didn't say that. I'm rebooting. Thirty seconds less than two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0069par0525	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, the numbers are all wrong.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0070par0526	Then you give me the truth.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0069par0527	I don't know who, where, what he did, what he said on his website or Facebook, but I have to say, if we assume the numbers that you just said are true, those calculations are based on a family of four. You said that the minimum pensioner's salary was over 2,000 liras. You said that the poverty limit of the family of four was as big as this.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0071par0528	If it works alone, I said.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0069par0529	There's only one... Look, 26 million people are working now. If you say the population of Turkey is 77 million, if you work for each family, one family of three is working if you divide all of this. I'd like to point out that not only teachers working in Turkey, but all workers working in the public sector are actually low income levels, but they're available. I want to make it clear to you: I mean, we've made the teachers' salaries extraordinaryly high, we've brought the officers' salaries to this point. We're not looking at them in terms of current possibilities, but in terms of current possibilities, we're looking at the best way in which both pensions and employees are able to buy their salary. We're calling it our power. Let me give you an example with the number: In 2002, Turkey's budget was about $100 billion. The budget's fee was 20 per cent. So this country was giving $20 billion of $100 billion in government salaries and wages. Currently, Turkey's budget is around 500 billion liras. The budget for wages and salaries is 30 per cent, 150 billion liras. From that day to this side, in 12 years, the wages have increased by 7 times. During Republic history, 400,000 teachers were taken, 450,000 teachers were taken during the AK PARTY rule. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So you've come with 50,000 unappointed teachers, you've raised 300,000. You're saying...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0072par0536	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0069par0537	But right now, 400 thousand teachers should be applauded if we've brought them to the point of service and employment. As a teacher, his brother-in-law and brother-in-law. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I pay my respects. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0073par0541	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0074par0542	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0073par0543	Mr. Ozcan, please.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0074par0544	Sir, in his speech, the orator stated that I was lying by twisting the numbers I gave him.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0073par0545	He didn't say beat, he said it was wrong.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0075par0546	I didn't say lying, I said wrong, I know what a lie is.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0074par0547	I want to answer from the stand.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0073par0548	Here you go, two minutes. It's wrong. He said, "The numbers you're giving are wrong." He didn't say smash. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0076par0552	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I'm really looking at Mr. Elitas. Look, the numbers we're giving you are the results of research done by trade unions, by vocational rooms, that anyone can access.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0077par0553	What union?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0076par0554	These are the numbers provided by the state's official institutions.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0077par0555	Tell me which union.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0076par0556	Now, how can you still say that?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0077par0557	What union?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0076par0558	Mr. Elitaş, these are the numbers of the yellow union. So I didn't give you the numbers of more objective unions here, so at least let me give you the numbers of the union that's close to you so you can think it over. Now, friends, is that a thing? Now, with our dear teacher, we've evaluated it while you were talking. Teachers in public, with a slight increase in pay. Everyone knows that, our teachers are the ones with the lowest income -- among the public employees. What are you still talking about? How can you argue against that? Mr. Elitaş, you say this.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0078par0560	He's picking on me again.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0076par0561	400,000 teachers were appointed in our era. You say that the number of non-assigned teachers has increased to 350,000 in your cycle. You can't answer that. We're a disgrace to the world. We have a group of teachers who are no bigger than the population of Iceland.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0079par0563	We're short 140,000 teachers.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0076par0564	Now, what are you still defending?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0080par0565	It's up from 140,000 to 350,000.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0076par0566	What about these teachers? Look, I'm speaking to the unassigned teachers, and that's not how we're going to solve this problem. I'm inviting the 330,000 non-assigned teachers to watch the AKP Group at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It's not like texting and this problem is solved, you can't solve it by getting 50 people together, by acting. Come and pay a visit to the AKP Group, where there are thousands of unappointed teachers. I'm doing this as a call from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0081par0569	He picked on me using my name. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0082par0570	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0081par0571	Mr. President, since I used the wrong sentence, you promised to be bullied, if you don't mind...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0082par0572	Yes, he said, "You are a disgrace to the world." Here you go. I'm gonna hang up now.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0083par0575	He's gonna pick on me.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0084par0577	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, my friends just warned me, I used a statement because of a slip of the tongue. I was actually going to say over 450,000. While 400,000 teachers have served in this country throughout the history of the Republic, the number of teachers assigned as teachers has been increased to 457,000 who joined the system during the AK PARTY rule. I'm fixing this.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0083par0578	Is that a success? There's another 140,000 deficits, is that a success? Throughout the history of the Republic, we have always been the 16th largest economy, the 17th largest economy, thanks to you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0084par0579	Look, dear friends, the minimum teacher's salary was $470 in 2002, and today it went up to $2.148. The minimum teacher's salary...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0085par0580	How many students have they increased? What's the state of education after 12 years?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0084par0581	It's just the opposition's job is to talk trash, nothing else. Mr. President, I mean, you don't warn a man who says things from the stand, you don't warn a man who says things from there. Please, can you please warn those who make small talk?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0086par0582	That's because it's so high up here. Go ahead.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0087par0584	Tell me about the raises you made, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0088par0585	The minimum teacher's salary was $470 in 2002, while today it was up to $2.148. We say that wages have never been enough to satisfy, but we say that with salaries, resources, circumstances, the resources of this country's economy, we have given the best salary during the time of the AK PARTI power.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0087par0586	You're not telling the truth, Mr. Elitaş. The teacher is hungry, hungry; he owes 70 percent; he has no home; he owes money.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0088par0587	We don't stay here as a power force. By the power of the nation, by the power of the nation, we are in power here. There are elections again in June 2015, the polls will be in front of us, the polls will be out, and we'll see who's in power and who's not in June again. We've been saying it here for 12 years. If you do this, if you do this, they say so. But in 12 years, the AK PARTI has constantly come out of 9 crates.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0089par0588	When we got stuck in the trunk!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0088par0589	See, the number of classrooms in 2002 reached 650,000. Classes of between 80 and 100 in 2002 arrived in class 25-30 today.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0090par0590	Where is it? Where is it?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0089par0591	There are classes of 70 in Istanbul.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0088par0592	The level of education has improved. Our people know it, and six months from now, they'll appreciate it, and they'll all pay for it in the chest. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0091par0595	Thank you. Now, the nationalist movement party... Teacher, I'll take your request. It's just...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0092par0598	I want the number of decisions enough, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0091par0599	We're not there yet, Hajji. When you get to that stage, you repeat it. I'll take your request. But there's a speaker, I'll make him talk, and then I'll give you a say in the matter. Mr. Kemalettin Aydın, the Silver House MP, will speak against the party's proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0093par0607	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I apologize to our esteemed teachers from this bench, the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Our very dear teachers, my father and five teachers in my family who had first come to mercy, and with him, I apologize to all teachers for the fact that our friend, who submitted the motion to discuss the current problems of teachers, spoke six minutes of the ten minutes of the time on political issues other than teachers' problems, and for our other opposition MP friend, who had almost two minutes of talking about teachers' problems, I apologize to all teachers for the fact that he had spoken about them.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0094par0608	You apologize to the teachers for what you can't.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0093par0609	Teachers' problems are well known to the AK PARTY, while teachers' problems are being discussed...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0094par0610	Apologize to the teachers for the situation they're in.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0093par0611	...the AK PARTI power, which knows the challenges of running from class to class in dual-tression education, to the challenges they face in the cities that grow from class to school, is an example of the growth in which 80-person classes are actually working on the ground when they are working at the level of life, as they fall into the class of 20 to 30, and the teacher's profession of teaching. We can't discuss it if you just take it in numbers. In short, there's no need to go too far, we know that even though we're in power, we can't solve the problems of our teachers, but we can't get over the important parts of them, and we continue to work on them. Therefore, I share with all our teachers that we will continue to solve problems at the same speed, which have been solved significantly, but also with many problems, the child's kindergarten problems, the spatial problems, the fact that his salary is not a high price despite all the increases, and I offer them my respect, respect, and love, as a child raised by them from the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0095par0614	Thank you. Mr. Topcu, please, let me know what your request is.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0096par0616	The speaker picked on me.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0095par0617	What did he say?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0096par0618	I especially apologize for them. He said. Because to speak of problems...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0097par0619	No hard feelings, sir, this is a criticism, nothing more, and it's not an open session.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0095par0620	Mr. Topcu, you requested a statement before the speaker came to the stand. I'm asking why you asked for a word.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0096par0621	Here's what they're doing: they're twisting the numbers we're giving them because we've got...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0095par0622	Who's twisting it? There were two speakers, who's twisting them?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0098par0623	Both, both.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0096par0624	Especially our friends on behalf of the AKP, the Group Vice President, twisted it because the teachers' salaries were among other employees...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0099par0625	Elistone twists everything.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0100par0626	Congressmans, please. I'm ashamed to give you this warning, please. This is a fellow congressman speaking.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0101par0627	Mr. President, you haven't questioned Elitas all that much. What's with the sensitivity?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0102par0628	Yeah, he's got a motion, at least.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0100par0629	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0103par0630	Now, look, explanations have been made about how satisfying teachers' salaries are compared to other occupational salaries. And I'm saying, right now, right now, we have...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0100par0631	Here, you take your seat, Mr. Topcu. I'll turn on the microphone, give you a minute to explain.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0103par0632	I'll do it right here.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0100par0633	Come in, come in. That's the way it is, please.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0103par0635	I guess the procedure changes according to everyone.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0100par0636	It doesn't change for anyone. It happens according to the law.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0103par0639	Now, as of November 2014, we can see that a police officer's salary is $2,765 lira, the attending's salary is $3,962, the highest teacher's salary is $2.422, and the lawyer's salary is $3,93. So, when we take the teacher's salaries from here, except for family benefits and other additional allowances, we can see that the minimum wager is a teacher, and the last speaker said that while he apologized, they didn't express the problems of the teachers, especially when he apologized to the nation. It's really the AKP mentality that is causing the problems of these teachers now. The people who perceive it as the flyman are only thinking about money. Those who say to the other officers, are lying on their sides. For fifteen hours, only those who evaluate teaching through the school hours are the AKP mentality, so we started talking about them in the first place, and I want to make that clear.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0100par0641	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. Before we started talking, you said it depends on everyone. I'd like to give you some information. When there's bullying, they come to the stand for two minutes, and when they make a statement, we give them a minute of their space. For your information. We've got a situation like this, we're just doing it.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0103par0643	Yeah, but there was teasing.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0104par0644	There was also bullying against Mrs. Zuhal.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0100par0645	Mr. Ozcan, please.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0105par0646	Sir, speaking on behalf of the AKP Group, in the speech I'm speaking on behalf of the teacher's problems for a few minutes, and the rest of my speech is that I'm making teachers' problems political polemic material...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0100par0647	He didn't mean you, he spoke in general.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0106par0648	Mr. President, this is criticism, not teasing.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0105par0649	Mr. President, on behalf of the Zühal Haným MHP Group, who has already submitted the motion, and the other one, since there's no one here but me, it's clear who he means. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0106par0650	Mr. President, this means silence of power.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0107par0651	Mr. Ozcan, for this reason, I don't intend to make you any promises.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0105par0652	Why, sir?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0107par0653	Because it's not a tease, it's a criticism. Please, I'd like you to be sensitive about this.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0105par0654	What kind of a thing is that? Sir, it's not criticism, it's obvious bullying.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0107par0658	I'd like to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0105par0659	Mr. President, I'm not done talking.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0108par0660	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit02spe0107par0661	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who don't agree... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0107par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The nationalist Movement Party's group's proposal for the vote failed to reach a sufficient number of decisions. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it and put it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Wednesday 26/11/2014 (now) there is no consensus among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. İstanbul MP M. Sezgin Tanrıkulu, Ankara MP Levent Gök and 24 MPs have been given Parliamentary Research Front (936 rows) on 29/5/2013 to determine "the measures which must be taken by all dimensions of the Uludere incident." lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations Wednesday (26/11/2014) and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The first speaker in favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal is Ankara MP Mr. Levent Gök. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0109par0016	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. Today, in our current research proposal... after 34 of our citizens were killed by the Turkish Armed Forces in Uludere about three years ago, the Uludere incident -- with a development that we experienced the other day -- with very serious and very grave developments -- remained up-to-date in front of us. What happened in the Uludere incident, in Roboski, on December 28, 2011? On December 28, 2011, an air operation was carried out following the information of the PKK's leader, Fehman Hussein, who was responsible for the armed actions of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). In Turkey, after that, an incredible amount of darkening, cooling, and trying to make it go away has been carried on by the power itself, but at this point today, we are faced with a painting that the spear can no longer fit in the sack, precious MPs. After this incident -- I'd like to remind you -- that a commission has been established within the Parliament Human Rights Commission, the Interior Ministry has appointed inspectors, and if the case has been followed by the judiciary, at the very moment, the Parliamentary Committee of Human Rights has closed the case with the majority votes of AKP members, stating that there were no mistakes in the case, my dear friends in the Parliament closed the case with a matter that the Interior Ministry did not simply grant a pre-examine, and in an investigation conducted by the judiciary. My dear friends, today, the relatives of those who lost their lives in Uludere are seeking justice. In this quest for justice, families have applied to the Constitutional Court as individuals and have been forced to determine the violation of rights, unfortunately. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, in the days when we were going over this incident, the MIT, the Ministry of Interior and the Prime Minister of the present have made different statements. Look, please listen to me carefully, dear friends. I'm trying to explain to you how the government collapsed and all of the government's organs cooperated to shut it down. On December 28, 2011, there's a National Security Board, and everyone on that National Security Board has been informed of this operation, but no one has been able to go after the people responsible for it, because the government is responsible for the entire top-of-the-line incident, my dear friends. While we're investigating the case, the Human Rights Commission has given us this exact text from the MIT. ▪ We are looking for answers to the question, "Who gave you the intelligence? " The text sent by MIT is like this, my dear friends. It is an example to expose the situation of the Turkish MIT (MIT) in Turkey. 34 of our citizens are dead, all agencies are passing by, and the MIT, who is responsible for Turkey's security, tells the Human Rights Commission the same thing: there is no information on the incident in 28/12/2011 concerning the rural units of our organisation (regional ministries and directors). The question is that the first official information regarding the incident reached our Undersecretary on 29/12/2011 with general content as of 9:35 p.m., so what does the MIT say? On December 28, 2011, at the time of the first bomb, 9:39 a.m., 12 hours later, I was informed of it. He says he sent a report to the Human Rights Commission, my dear friends. 34 people have been rushed to hospitals, wounded have been carried on mule backs, agencies report it as news, but our vast MİTbook says: "I learned it twelve hours later. Dear friends, on 30/12/2011 -- the prime minister of time, the current President -- tells the press that our National Intelligence Agency has given false information. That kind of behavior has been made because of false information. But our National Intelligence Agency has no last-minute intelligence information. The current President, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of the time, says my dear friends. What does MIT say? I learned 12 hours later. The Prime Minister of Time says there is no information given at the last moment. So, who gave you the intel, precious lawmakers? Now, here's to the day before. Of course, when your conscience bleeds, somewhere the truth comes out. In fact, we, in the Parliament's Human Rights Commission, made history as the Republican People's Party, and in those days, we said all the facts one by one. It's exactly what we said, no one can deny it. We're about to watch the AKP spokesman. Now, MIT says that I learned 12 hours later, I didn't inform anyone. The Prime Minister of Time says that there is no information given by the MIT. What does former Interior Minister İdris Naim Şahin, who was on duty that day, say? The previous day -- Idris Naim Şahin -- says, when the Uludere incident took place, the Home Secretary of Interior at the time said: "Listen carefully to the letters sent by the MIT and the high-level -- the Turkish Armed Forces have been called in person by the MIT officer, and the Fehman Hussein, or Bahoz Erdal, has been reported to be crossing the border. Although the authorities of the Armed Forces repeatedly asked if the information was correct, the MIT official insisted that the information be confirmed.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0110par0025	Do you believe it?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0109par0026	Who says that? It's from the Home Secretary of Time. Unfortunately, the Uludere incident occurred on multiple official intelligence reports and phone information from MIT.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0111par0027	What newspaper is that? Can you tell me about that paper?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0112par0028	Parallel!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0109par0029	My dear friends, there is a serious, grave painting. Is İdris Naim Şahin lying, MIT lying, is the Prime Minister of Time lying? Who's lying? Why are you fooling people? Why are you making it dark? Why are you setting up the search for justice for the families of those 34 dead citizens? From now on, this event has taken on another dimension. This investigation must be reopened immediately. The Constitutional Court must immediately open its way to the families by ordering a violation of their rights. Who is this MIS officer? Who are my dear friends?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0112par0030	My dear Hakan... my dear Hakan...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0109par0031	Why is it protected when it's known? Why hasn't there been an investigation? The day before today, Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu says: "We will not sacrifice the MIT. " Is that so, Mr. Prime Minister? Is life that cheap? So you will sacrifice Ozcan Uysal, who died at the age of 14, you will sacrifice Seyithan Enç. You will sacrifice Cemal Encü, Vedat Ençüt, Vedam Encu, Nadim Encül, Nadir Alma. You will sacrifice the Encültin and the other young men in Roboski. You will not sacrifice your own authorities. No, you will not. This investigation is now the first agenda in front of Turkey. No one can get away with this. Know that this operation was carried out in Uludere, assuming that Fehman Hussein was involved in which identity the smugglers were identified. The reason the case is being covered up is because the whole top level of the state is involved. The order was given personally by the Chief of Staff on the National Security Council, including the Prime Minister's information. Why are you hiding these facts? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The truth is about to come out. We call it justice. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0113par0036	Thank you, Mr. Sky. The first speaker against the Republican People's Party group proposal is Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0114par0040	Do you have to speak against him?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0113par0041	If you'd listened, I'd have told you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0115par0042	It's mandatory.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0113par0043	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0116par0044	Thank you, Mayor. As the People's Democratic Party, we will, of course, speak in favor of it, it's important. If such a development has occurred, if the Minister of the Interior of the EC PARTY, a member of the National Security Council, has made some confessions, then the law should be required, the special authorities have closed, Şırnak Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, now the People's Attorney's Office must open an investigation immediately. In fact, that Minister must go and voluntarily testify because his words are so overcome, not swallowing. The National Security Council, where he is, has the current President, Mr. Erdogan, the Chief of Staff Special, and the National Intelligence Agency. So, here, a former Home Secretary of the government has made a statement accusing an institution directly under the government's orders, and this statement is extremely grave. Now, in the face of this dire situation, there are things that the living must do, and that's how you should take this motion for research. The Parliament's Human Rights Review Commission had set up a subcommittee. He's gone. He's made a report. This report, unfortunately, was covered up by the majority of votes in power. Now, it's important to ask... if the Parliament's Human Rights Review Commission truly has a conscientious responsibility for 34 lives, it may be a way for the former Home Secretary to run this subcommittee again as a result of his confessions, but, frankly, it doesn't do any good. As Mr. Sky has explained here, the Council's investigation into this with the motion to investigate it, so, just as the Soma Commission has been re-established despite the Mining Commission, Parliament must decide. The House must not be blamed. Parliament should not be the protector, protector of genocide and mass murder against humanity. So, historical responsibility is at this point in the House, where Parliament has to enlighten it, that's the duty of the law. Then the House must take responsibility for the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate, and let's set up a research commission, and we have time. The new legislature can complete this commission until the election. At least he didn't hand over his own negligence, his own irresponsibility, to other elected members during a new era of legislation. Now, there are some very serious issues here. This statement, after this confession, is not only for those who have genuine regrets or for these special authorities, but for the DGM, they are not confessors, they are also confessors in politics. In politics, the reasons for confession may change. Some people might say something about what they have a conscience about, some of them might talk about something they're aware of, some of them -- really, three or four AK PARTY MPs had passed on information like this to me, but I didn't have any data. Without the data, there's no way he's gonna do anything. That's why these confessions were in the press, so the whole world heard them. It's a new situation, so it's a very bad situation. In the face of this situation, then the House must act. In fact, I address lawmakers with a conscience: MPs with a conscience say yes, in the face of the murder of 34 lives. I mean, let's not kid each other, guys. What does Mr. Davutoglu say? The state kneels and apologizes. But won't this state apologize to Roboski, to the people, to the people, to the nation? In my Lonely Lesson? Won't he apologize for the massacres of his time or not? I mean, there's a lot of historical responsibility here. Now, in this historic responsibility, I want to explain to you two important points. Now, in a case where 34 lives have been bombed over and over for an hour, the prime minister of political responsibility, the chief of staff at the time... ordered the air operation, the shooting, that's the whole point, the House needs to investigate. Which politician gave it, which soldier gave it, what authority? Now, who gave you this intel when you were here doing air operations for unarmed civilians? Now, in this intel, there are Predators, the Americans, the Herons, the Israelis. The MIT had explanations at that time. The Home Secretary's statement here points directly to intelligence. Well, then there's a much worse situation here. When the National Security Council conducted its study, thanks to the non-obstructive decision, that prosecutor wrote it well because it says there: ▪ It's 20 o'clock. He was at the office at 00, so we sent the information to the Chief of Staff. The Chief of Staff was in the Special House, and he approved it. I mean, they all know what happened in the MGK, so the Home Secretary who confessed is speaking because he has information. This is new evidence. In the face of this new evidence, will the General Prosecutor's Office ever reopen an investigation or not? Of course, it's their responsibility, too, because there are four generals and one colonel in five suspects. In this case, if we add, the people who ordered the hit are also involved, including the Chief of Staff. Now, there is an opposition vote in the appeal of lawyers in the appeal against the non-obsession decision. There, it says, "The public conscience must be satisfied." In the long run, it's the foundation of property and it's going to hurt justice. Now, Congress shouldn't be a party to this crime, to crime against humanity, to silence, to prevent, to confirm, to participate in mass murder. I don't want any congressman to be in a situation like this. Now, when we look from here, we see that the Constitutional Court has an individual application of the Roboski family on July 18, 2014. Of course, I would personally advise the Constitutional Court as a person who's been doing a lot of lawsuits in Strasbourg, to examine the evidence in place, just like the Strasbourg Court, so call this Home Secretary, whether his confessions are true or not, and listen to the Chief of Staff of the General Staff, the Prime Minister of that era, and his intelligence. It's called a witness finding. It's called a national above-national law. The Constitutional Court has that kind of historical responsibility as a trial. Look, from Şırnak Uludere, from Şırnak Attorney General's office, I brought this responsibility to the General Prosecutor's Office, I went to the Constitutional Court. As soon as the Constitutional Court makes a decision like this, it'll come to life. There's also something that Mr. Sky said in the law, that you have to clear your consciences, my friends. If you say yes to this research motion, we'll solve this situation in Turkey, in the national judiciary. If you say no, believe me, this will go to national judgment, where the trial will be more transparent, clearer, and more cruel. We leave you now with your consciences. As the People's Democratic Party, I would like to say that this new development must be set up immediately in the face of this new confession. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0117par0058	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. The second speaker in favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal, Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0118par0062	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I was part of the Uludere Commission in the Human Rights Commission, and there were serious investigations about it, but there was one question that always haunts us: who gave us the intel? I mean, who did the bombing by giving intel? Because there was a bombing going on beyond our borders, and in order to do this bombing here, the Chief of Staff would have to have known and, of course, the Prime Minister would have to know about it, and there was no way that this bombing could have been carried out. According to the decisions made, it was seen that a decision had been made to intervene with cannon fire first, but later to be shot with airplanes by the withdrawal of this decision. At that time, the Undersecretary of MIT issued a statement and said: "We did not provide any information about Uludere. Did the United States of America present this intelligence or who presented it? In the beginning of what was said was that one of the terrorists was Fehman Hussein, who was part of this caravan. As a matter of fact, Idris Naim Şahin left the AKP, started a new party. At the time, the Home Secretary now holds a statement like this, saying that MIT provided the intelligence. Of course, shouldn't he have said it at that time, it's a separate discussion, but if MIT provided this information, is it from the United States of America? Because all the drones were detected there, there was a record of about seven hours, and we looked at those recordings. Now, I'm saying this for the sake of this: we need to deal with these issues very seriously in Turkey. For example, in the matter of Hrant Dink -- in the matter of murder -- the issues need to be revealed with transparency so that they don't create material for someone. Because in the murder of Hrant Dink, Turkey was actually put in a position to be condemned, and we are all Armenians with banners. So they were able to publicly bring up the genocide issue in Turkey, and in international opinion, they put Turkey in a position to condemn it. The same goes for the Uludere. Many of our citizens who were killed here were actually rangers, doing this job. But then, with these people killed, the color of the work went to a very different level, and Turkey was brought to a position that also violated human rights. The bottom line is, who gave you this intel? How did Turkey fall for this intel, or why did it act in such intelligence? Because, my friends, the bombing didn't happen in one phase, there were four bombings. In view of whether or not the people who were there were to flee or not go into the trenches after the 1st bombing, the second of the bombing, the third of the bomb, perhaps the fourth of the bomb shouldn't have been done. If there is any doubt, at least they could be identified by the people who were standing there from Turkey and who were being sent from Turkey or by helicopters -- with an operation -- they could be controlled, but they weren't. The second bombing was carried out, followed by the third bomb. These were done 20 minutes apart. Forty minutes later, the fourth bomb was launched. Now, finding out who caused all these people's deaths and this kind of action is actually going to mean that those who ordered this action will be exonerated somewhere. Who was believed and who gave this intel and caused the loss of lives of so many people? We believe this is a matter for Turkey to resolve, of course. Because, no matter who it is, Turkey is obliged to ensure the protection of the rights of all people in its country, its nation, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Hence, we are considering the issue in this regard. To find out who the informants are, which we know about all the phases of the operation, but in those phases, if MIT says I didn't give intel, then the Chief of Staff must explain who received this information, because that's the one that ordered the removal and bombing of the planes. So they know about this intel, who gave it to them, and they need to explain it. But, now, if former Interior Minister Idris Naim Şahin says that this was given to him by MIT, then he must also explain why MIT kept this information in the past or from whom. However, at the moment, there is no way that the MIT is being investigated and the MIT is being investigated in any way. Why? Because it only depends on the Prime Minister's instructions. Now, if an interior minister said that such an order was given by the MIT, there's no way he wouldn't know that.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0119par0067	What if he's lying?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0118par0068	If he's lying, he needs to be found out again.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0119par0069	I mean, if he's trying to trick all of us, and you're jumping right at him...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0118par0070	So, if the former Home Secretary is lying today, if he's lying today, then he needs to be found out that he's lying. How do you get it out?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0120par0071	So we're just gonna run after everything they say? So what do we do?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0118par0072	Look, you're the government, you have to run because you're the government. Friend, look, if we don't go behind the back of a statement, an understanding that misleads public opinion and leads all Turkish people, all people, the public, to a wrong place, then how are you going to get the social order, is that possible? Look, I'm telling you, I don't think it's going to make anyone smaller, but it's going to make them bigger. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0121par0076	Thank you. The last speaker against the Republican People's Party group proposal is Mr. Hamza Mountain, İzmir MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0122par0080	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the group proposal from the Republican People's Party. I salute your high council. This incident took place on December 28, 2011, when 34 of our citizens died, leading to the most painful events of this period. Immediately after this incident, a review commission was established within the Turkish Parliament's Human Rights Review Commission, and this commission held its meeting on January 9, 2012, and on February 6, 2012, it went to Gülyözaş to interview both our citizens there and the witnesses of this incident. Later, the drone footage was reviewed, the General Staff, the Ministry of National Defence, the Diyarbakır Special Prosecutor's Office had been asked for information and documents, and at the same time, people involved were heard. If we think about the sad event that occurred after all these examinations -- the reasons for this error -- we've been mentioned by the speakers just now -- the subject of drone images and intelligence. As a point of information and documents that have come to the commission, there is an intensive sharing of intelligence regarding November and December. These intelligences came from both the gendarmes and other institutions at different times, but were not seen in information that came to a special intelligence Commission on December 28th. I'd like to share with you the words that a military official has expressed to us at the point of understanding the military dimension of the incident: I, as division commander, as a commander of the drone footage, would not be planning a flight-unit operation if I knew that these people were traffickers. What I'm worried about is why I don't plan it, because what I caught on that smuggler isn't worth the risk. If I break two of my helicopters there, if he falls, at least 30 well-trained citizens will lose their lives. Imagine if someone fell -- imagine there were 15 people in a helicopter -- 15 people died. I haven't heard of anything like this in years -- five years of my generalhood -- and I haven't planned anything like this. Oh, if they give me orders, I'll go ahead and protest, I'll say the risks, but if they give me orders, I'll do it. So even the division commander here, even though there's no ground security, he's thinking about this flying unit operation. If there was a deliberate situation here, would this person who watched the footage be in a position to organize such an action against a group of individuals who were civilians and who had been constantly in the area -- whether you call their name, or whether you call their name, the trafficking of boundaries? These examinations showed to us that the talks we had made in Şırnak, and the statement given by the division commander there, clearly, there was no intentional situation at the point of this incident, and in the report, we were deregulating them. Mr. President, it's been nearly three years since this incident took place. Now, today, I've been thinking about why the Republican People's Party has brought this up with this group's recommendation, with this parliamentary research issue, and frankly, I've been thinking about it before this conversation. Mr. Levent has cleared that up here. I said, "Did they mess up the dates?" December 28th, December 27th, November 27th, I thought they'd mixed it up. I heard what he said today. Clearly, the country is not ruled by the issue of coming to the agenda of those who are politically deceased. On such a subject, the country will not be ruled by the words he has spoken. Now, why did the Republican People's Party bring this up? The Republican People's Party has been stuck on something recently. What's this about? It's about my class. You know, the one that brought up my class...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0123par0088	Tell İdris Naim Şahin.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0122par0089	Relax, relax. ... And it's actually their own party that's been causing the debate lately. His own Vice-Presidents said he apologized for Dersim (School) in the Non-Aligned Regional Program, and immediately made a statement from nationalist friends. In this statement, they made it very clear that it was the opposite, even an insult, that it was contrary to the founding will. And the presidents couldn't say anything about it. The same Vice-President said that HDP had issued the motion to investigate Dersim....and that we had a statement against him. I was out of the country that day, and I couldn't answer, and I've been wondering how to answer that question ever since, and I've come up with this group proposal today, and I thank you, so I've been able to answer it. In the speech I gave on May 8, 2014, about Dersim. About what our Prime Minister said...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0124par0091	This is about Ulidere, but Hamza, this is about Ulidere, so get to the point.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0122par0092	Don't worry about my future. I'll tie it to you just as you did with a person who's a political asset. Together, together, parallel, CHP, former past ministers, you're walking together, go ahead. I'll get to the point.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0124par0093	Don't you care? Don't you care about Uludere?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0122par0094	The last thing I said was that the Peace and Democracy Party's previous name was BDP and its new name was HDP, and I find this proposal made by the BDP, which had to be changed by the Constitutional Court, not by the closure of the party, but by the political struggle, to make sense, but I did say that we are against the motion in accordance with our studies of Parliament.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0124par0095	Hamza, let's look into this for you as a lawyer.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0122par0096	Now, when I couldn't get this lecture out of the way, the president of the CHP came out this time and said: "The MIT is confusing us."
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0124par0097	Hamza, this is about Uludere.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0122par0098	We're coming to the same place, look, we're coming to the same place.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0125par0099	Mr. Speaker, do not engage in polymia, please.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0122par0100	Please, guys, we listened to you. The president of the Republican People's Party had a statement called "MIT is confusing our party." He also said that the CHP's İzmir MP was already confused by us, there is no need to confuse us.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0126par0102	Mountain, does it look good on you? We're talking about a massacre. Shame on you. It's beneath you. You're an ex-MaZLUMDER member.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0127par0103	Say that again, say that again. You've been saying the same thing for three years.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0128par0104	What did you do in Uludere, Uludere? Don't be afraid of the nation.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0129par0105	Relax, guys.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0130par0106	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0129par0107	The Republican People's Party is now concerned about bringing up a new issue when my lecture fails to bring it down.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0131par0108	Don't bring up 90 years of events, speak of Uludere. You don't talk about Uludere, you talk about other things.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0129par0109	Guys, don't bother with things like this.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0132par0110	Dear speakers, please... Mr. Acar, please...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0129par0112	We, the AK PARTY government, have always been behind all sorts of events and issues in this period, and we are now in charge. If he catches a wolf on the side of the Dicle, his sheep will come to him as a forensic god, and he will ask Omar to account for it. We have an understanding, and we act with that understanding.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0133par0113	Tell us of Ulidere, and tell us of him who is in charge of Uludere.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0129par0114	Now, we're going through a process, look, we're going through a solution process. I advise you to be somewhere in this process of resolution and the conflict we had before 2011...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0133par0115	We're asking you what happened in Uludere.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0134par0116	Don't run from the nation!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0129par0117	I wish Silvan hadn't happened, and if it hadn't happened, I wish hundreds of our people hadn't died.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0134par0118	They didn't die, they were killed.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0129par0119	If only after that the Nergiz House, Zeynep House, Nurcan Olgac, Kevser Cevet, Hatice Belgin, Ceylan Önkol, Yasin Börlar had not died. Dear President, very valuable MPs, this proposal is obviously intended to change the agenda.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0134par0121	It's not like a lawyer to protect murderers.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0129par0122	The Republican People's Party submitted this research motion in 2013, but so far it hasn't made it a group proposal. Our parliament is now on the agenda to uphold the existing law and the immediate legalisation of the existing law...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0135par0123	Did you bomb it or not?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0129par0124	I salute you with love, with respect, with the belief that the package of judgment must come to life.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0136par0126	Thank you, Mr. Mountain. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0137par0128	Mr. President, it is my duty to bring it up with the testimony of the speaker...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0136par0130	Congressmans, I'm talking to Mr. Gök. I'll make a promise to him for bullying. But I have to listen to his reason for being on the record. Please... Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0137par0132	Speaking about the motion we brought up in the speaker's speech, Mr. Speaker said that we were trying to bring it up, especially by deflecting it from the agenda and taking advantage of a political dead politician. This is a serious matter, and I want to make a promise.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0136par0133	Mr. Sky, come in. Two minutes...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0138par0135	You know, there's a lot of teasing going on with Mr. Hawk, but...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0136par0136	Mr. Mountain, please... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0139par0141	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm deeply sorry. Of course, facing all kinds of suffering in our history is the need to be a great state. We, the Republican People's Party, have made the necessary motions to open any archive on this matter.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0140par0142	We don't need an archive, we don't need an archive.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0139par0143	We're here today -- please, let's be quiet -- we're talking about something concrete. After the massacre of 34 young people of Uludere, who had not dried their blood yet, a former Home Secretary and a member of the AKP Group of the time, and a former Interior Minister who had done politics with them, made very important statements, dear friends. Now, are you going to ignore these statements? Is that what you want to say?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0141par0145	Let him speak here, let him answer, let him speak from the stand.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0139par0146	And I'm like, "Who's lying?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0142par0147	Mr. Levent, what newspaper did you get the statements from?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0139par0148	They all have them.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0142par0149	Where do they all have it?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0143par0150	The only newspaper you're talking about is the Zaman newspaper.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0142par0151	Where are they all?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0144par0152	Is the Prime Minister lying or is İdris Naim Şahin lying? Look, you can't get away with this.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0142par0154	No, we're not uncomfortable at all.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0144par0155	Idris Naim Şahin has made these statements, these explanations are obvious. Now, you know what's fitting for us is that our friend who just spoke here went to Uludere, we saw the families, they all had pictures of his children on their chests. They said, "Relieve our tears, justice." Let's go after justice. Dear Hamza, you're a lawyer, and I want those families to contribute to the quest for justice. We've brought these motions over and over again, and you've rejected them, but no one can ignore this new situation, no one can ignore it, no one can.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0142par0156	Is Pennsylvania behind it?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0145par0157	What's the matter, you've been instructed by Pennsylvania again?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0144par0158	I want to find out the truth, why are you running away from it? We gave this motion for justice, to uncover the truth. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0146par0161	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0147par0162	Where did you get your instructions? There's no sound in time. İdris Naim Şahin speaking, one day later you come here and make suggestions.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0146par0166	I submit to your votes the group proposal of the Republican People's Party Group:
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0148par0167	Sir, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0146par0168	After you said it, you asked for it, but next time. Those who refuse... are not accepted. Mr. Sky, I've got one for you, and you'll get enough to decide because his timing is wrong. Members of parliament, according to the decision, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the third place, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and Isparta MP Recep Special and 52 MPs; Judges and Prosecutors' Law and Adjudications of Laws and Laws and Orders of Laws; Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan; 59 of the 1512 Notary Law; 59 of the Notary Act. The Law Proposal for the Resolving of Laws Against Diseases of Noters, İstanbul MP Aydın Ajan Ayaydın; Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Judges and Prosecutors 2802; Justice and Development Party Chairs Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın, Kahrimarash MP Mahir Ünal, İstanbul MP Mihrimah Belma Line and Amasian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı; 33 MPs; Agreement of Justices and Laws of Laws and Laws and Law Orders of Human Rights and Law Orders of Laws; We shall hold a proposal to be held at the same place by İstanbul MP Mair Ünal, İstanbul MP Mihrimah Belma Line and Amasi MP Mehmet Naci Bostancıcıcıcıçcı; Adıncı. Commission? Here. Government? Here. According to the 91st Article of the Civil Code, the talks on the first part of the proposal, which was considered the main law, had been completed. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. There are three in article one, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 1st of the current Law Proposal 655 rows. We submit and propose that the word "empty" in the article be removed from the text and added the phrase "exploded and" to be added. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Cemalettin Lightning Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current Law Proposal No. 655. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. "MEDDE 1 - Notarys, opened and passed from fourth grade to third grade, are announced in the Official Gazette." Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Uğur Bayraktutan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of the 1st article of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Secret Yazayya Leader Ertuğrul Furçı Erol Dora Sebahat Tuncel Demir Çelik Does the Commission agree with the read-out motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0149par0208	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0146par0209	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0150par0210	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0146par0211	Mr. Iron Steel will speak on the motion, Mr. Muk MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0151par0214	Mr. President, very honored MPs, I wish you a good evening with respect and love on behalf of myself and my party. We are here to discuss a proposal regarding the law on 655 rows of HSYK. Yes, the law on HSYK was recently passed in the history of the Republic of Turkey in accordance with the government's approval, preferences and priorities, despite intense debates on the agenda of parliament. However, it has not been decades, nor has it occurred to you that even though a period of time had passed, which had not yet reached its top point for three years, some of its needs had been revealed again, that it was being brought to the agenda of the Assembly. Yes, Parliament exists to make law, but this law must be a legislative act that we have to meet the freedoms of society, the needs of society, by staying on the legitimate, democratic ground. But it doesn't happen, it's like everywhere, it's always and everything, and instead of meeting the freedoms, the needs of society, legitimately, democratically, in this regard, the concerns, doubts, fears, fears, some pragmatist accounts are being approached by the movement of the ruling political party, rather than the fact that it serves its needs in a legitimate, democratic position. If the HSYK serves us, it should remain in this position; there is no harm in keeping the status quo in its position. The understanding is dominant, but if it does not serve us, some of it -- if it serves some of it -- intrinsic, intangible structures -- if it is an organ that serves parallel structures, and if it is an organizational structure, the will must be intervened, the will must be broken, it must be surrendered. The power and the AKP government is acting under the rule of its understanding. Therefore, the action is not democratic, but also devoid of democratic participation. You'll interfere with the judiciary, you'll predict a judicial system that will depend on you and yourself outside the principle of independence of the judiciary. When this judiciary contests, you stand in conflict, conflicting, conflicting, uncompromising with the principle that today's democracy is open to dialogue and negotiation when you approach the idea that it should be broken, that it should be removed, that it should be removed. It's not just that he steals freedoms based on his hierarchical relationship that makes the state a state, alone. If the state will have dignity in society, if its legitimacy and non-negotiable, the state above all should be in a position to be able to sustain itself with it, not by hegemonic self-existence, but primarily by taking into account the multiple identity of society, its multicultural culture, its diversity, its complexity. Therefore, efficiency, sustainability, active service, fair approach, but the most important of all, can account for and must be transparent. Let alone transparency, accountability, accountability, structures, the government is approaching the problem from a point that suppresses institutions, organs. He wants to keep the judiciary, the Supreme Court, the Court, and the Court in a position that is dependent on him and serves him. Such is his view of the Supreme Election Board, and his approach to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors is also sought to be reshaped with that mentality. Mr. President, my dear lawmakers, my call from this office once again is that when you do not allow society to meet its needs based on its own power through its own civil democratic organisation, instead of the original summary of everything and the dynamics of society, when you make everything into one form and connect everything to the center, there will be justice, freedom, equality, and there will be no freedom, there will be no equality, there will be no authority, there will be chaos, there will be chaos, there will be democratic destruction, there will be political destruction, there will be chaos, there will be chaos, there will be political destruction, there will be political destruction, there will be political destruction, there.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0152par0221	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current Law Proposal No. 655. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. "MEDDE 1 - Notarys, opened and passed from fourth grade to third grade, are announced in the Official Gazette." Uğur Bayraktutan (Artvin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0153par0229	He doesn't agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0152par0230	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0154par0231	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0152par0232	Artvin MP Ugur Bayraktut will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0155par0235	Mr. President, before I begin my remarks, there is a problem with judges who are not in charge of this particular law, I want to tell you about it. There's no arrangement for retired judges. Retired judges, unfortunately those who failed to leave first class... I just met Süleyman Mustafaoğlu, who served here for 28 years and 7 months. 28 years and 7 months in the first grade, my dear friends are paid $2,200 due to a four-period bypass operation. And he's getting paid for being a lawyer, and there's a serious problem. Mr. Secretary is here, and I'm also speaking to the President of the Justice Commission, and if we make an arrangement on this issue... retired judges can't vote on this parallel, they have their victims, but I'll leave it to your consciences. I think if we make a salary adjustment on this, we can fix the problem. I told Mr. Secretary last night that I want to repeat myself here once more. My dear friends, there are serious problems with the notary arrangement. Before I came here, I looked at the MPs. There are 122 MPs who are lawmakers in Parliament. Turkey's National Assembly defines 122 MPs, and says, "The prosecutor says," my dear friends say, "The lawyer." There's not a notary in Parliament. No one's saying when they're going to law school, I'm going to be a notary. No one's going to go to law school because I'm going to be a notary. I think the Minister would agree. None of the lawmakers here said that I would finish the faculty, be a notary, my dear friends. But at this point, we're all governors, we're governors, we're judges, we're prosecutors. On the other hand, he's being treated like a foster son, a notary's profession. Not in Europe. A professional group of my dear friends in Europe in terms of notarynical judicial service. But what are we doing? On the one hand, we push it away, and on the other hand, we do other things. Look, I've been thinking about the regulation of the 7th article, and I've discussed it with our members of the Commission, and what's the joke of the 7th amendment? What was the arrangement in Article 7? I'll sign that this is about the notary profession. I also spoke to the Minister tonight. A provision is being provided from judges in administrative courts for five years, for those who have not finished law school or for those who are not a member of the law school appointed by the President. They say, sir, they can enter law schools without a test. My dear friends, I'm speaking from here to all of Turkey: we're pushing the notary away from our hands, and on the other hand, we're telling judges who served 20 years, even though you didn't finish law school, you go to college without a test, get your degree, go to law school in the early years of your mission, get a notary document according to the existing legislation. Put that notary document of yours aside like wine and let it grow old. After twenty years, come before you retire. I'll go into notaryism. I can't accept that, my dear friends. Why can't you accept it? Look, I'm guessing why this arrangement came. I've got two or three speeches, I'll tell you in detail. This arrangement is probably due to the lobbying activity of non-law-school graduates who want to be notarized, my dear friends. Why? Look, there are 1,771 notaries in Turkey, my dear friends, 589 notaries carrying green passports in the notary 1,771 notary. What does that mean? So these are retired judges or treasure lawyers -- very few from the public. Other than that, there are 923 notaries who don't carry green passports. What does that mean? So more than a third of these notaries come from high judgment, my dear friends. If you haven't finished law school, if you have a problem with law school, what do you have to do? Here, you're gonna have to bring in these kind of sanctions. I'm calling from here, and I told Mr. Minister yesterday: If there is a principle of equality taught to us in the Constitution, if such a rule exists, my dear friends, that one day tomorrow when a person goes to the Constitutional Court, he will win the university without taking the university exam. On what basis can we bring an exception to the front of Turkey, my dear friends? We can't possibly accept that. We never accept such an arrangement. In the years before I came here, when I was a lawyer, my dear friends used to tell us that there's a terminology called law enforcement, there's a great power. I'd say, "What is it, sir? The lawmaker does this. " Lawyers, judges, colleagues used to say: "The lawmaker makes such an arrangement. I learned here: there is no such thing as a lawmaker, my friends. There's a motion coming in on the side, and they say, "This one, this one, this one, this one. We raise our hands, those who don't accept it, those who don't." Don't tell all judges, all my fellow prosecutors, all my colleagues, all my lawyers here that when you see something in practice tomorrow, it's what the lawmaker wants. The lawmaker is a virtual concept, my friends. There is no such thing as law enforcement. I saw it in Parliament. I'd like to share this assessment with you in that sense. Do notaries have problems? I do. I have two articles to speak of, and what should be done with those serious problems in the size of Parliament, what are the problems with the notary profession? I will present them in the presence of the great Parliament and you, one by one, with its concrete examples. That's how I got my word on this stuff. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0156par0244	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 1st of the current Law Proposal 655 rows. We submit and propose that the word "empty" in the article be removed from the text and added the phrase "exploded and" to be added. Celal Adan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0157par0251	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0156par0252	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0158par0253	We disagree. Mr. President. -.. İstanbul MP Celal Adan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0159par0257	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're with you to the end of the notary arrangements, we support them. Judges, we're in favor of curing prosecutors, we find them inadequate. We want it to reflect on their retirement, and we want to improve the status of those who have retired so far. Hopefully, with all the members of the Justice Department, the arrangements that involve pensioners will be granted to the National Party of Action. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there are two important issues I'd like to share with you today: one is terrorism, the other is corruption. We know that the Justice and Development Party's government has been co-operating with terrorism and turning justice into a toy for its crimes. And after December 17th and 25th, we are ashamed to follow the will at the point of changing justice in Turkey, where it will fall down into history. Dear MPs, Deputy Prime Minister Yalçın Akdoğan, who rules the state of the Republic of Turkey, explains his crime against terrorism, saying: "If there is no killing in Turkey, if there is no kidnapping, if there is no rescue zone in the region, I will meet with the political extensions of the separatists." So he declares that in a part of Turkey, a man is killed, tax is collected, smuggling, there's no state there. Who says that? He calls it the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. He says he'll see me after him. A political centre points to a target, and if that political centre does not do it again, I will discuss it. He admits that he has the power to eliminate the actual situation, and he tells us that we are all looking at a process that says that the actual situation is going on. And who can prevent that from being judged except Allah? Therefore, all arrangements in 17-25-indicted justice will come to us in the coming days as the greatest shame in history. The second basic event: Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey (Turkish Republic), do not get caught between the anvil of Imralı and the hammer of Kandil. He says, "Don't come out without shame, why do you insult the bandit?" This will, which uses the Republic of Turkey as its father's toy, also plays with justice. There's been a mistrial of 98 people. I'm an Istanbul MP, and I don't know anyone in Istanbul. I called a brother prosecutor there, and I said, "Oh, brother, why are you getting involved in this? Give them to the court, and let the court decide that they will not follow them. What he said to me, I assure you, he said something that you should give up right now: "Admir, they are afraid of the Supreme Court," he said. When you're in the Supreme Court, which is now the Supreme Court, if it were a judgment based entirely on the will of the Justice and Development Party, you wouldn't be able to touch this place at all, and there would be no follow-up. In order to suppress theft, insolence, justice, for God's sake, is it done? A history of corruption as the greatest corruption in the history of the Republic, let the courts sort it out if you can. Why are you missing this? To increase the number of members in the Supreme Court, to increase the number of members in the Court, the number of members you described as revolutionary in the past, to go out in front of the entire nation and put the National Movement Party on the stand, and you did so much time in the coup, but you said no to the referendum. You ratted us out all over Turkey. But we said at the time: "You separate the trial of the coup, remove the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, and we will support you to the end." Then you are overwhelmed by this arrangement. When you look at the suit of the police officers who are dressed in kiğülı, who have not exceeded 200 lira, a story is told in Istanbul; I want to share them with you. It's just like this: when they took $4.5 million, they said: "Take this money away, it's yours." "Is it Yozgat or is it yours?" A police officer from Central Anatolia spits it in your face. Al says, "I don't need it." Is it possible for three cops, four judges, to shake up corruption, to stamp out this insolence, to mathematically launder this corruption with fingers? It shouldn't be enough. You guys should come. I've told you over and over again, every time Parliament enters the election, 65 per cent of them will be renewed, so 65 per cent of them will not be elected in the next election. Come, let justice prevail, and let it go to the courts, if you are so strong. What right do you have to turn the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors into your father's company?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0160par0265	Thank you, Mr. Adan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 2 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 2nd Amendment of the current Law Proposal 655 rows. By removing the text of "all official and private institutions " in its Article, " we propose and propose that the declaration be added to the official and private institutions. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Cemalettin Lightning Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 2nd Amendment of the current Law Proposal 655 rows. We propose and propose that "last" in Article 24 of Article 1512, which was replaced by Article 1512, be changed into "Official Newspaper" and added the following joke to the article. "The identity card given to notaries by the Turkish Association replaces the official identity card given by all official and private organisations." Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Gürkut Acar Jesus Gök Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Article 2 of the current law proposal 655 be removed from the draft text of the 1st. Pervin Buldan Sırrıyya Önder Erol Dora Sebahat Tuncel Iron Steel Ertuğrul Furçı Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0161par0289	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0160par0290	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0162par0291	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0160par0292	Mr. Demir Çelik will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0163par0295	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love on behalf of myself and my party. Yes, for 6,000 years, the government has been taking the future of society, its freedom, with its ability to be hierarchical and judgmental. How can the government get legitimacy for that? However, there is only one condition: it should be that it respects the multicultural, identity of society, prevents society from becoming a living organism, not delays its development, but keeps its growth, proliferation, needs on legitimate grounds. When the state maintains these qualities, I.D.s, religions, cultures, it's equal and fair, and it has power, and it's fair and equitable. The one who is unfair and unegalitarian is the one who imposes his power on society and society dynamics, causing historical, social, cultural, ecological destruction at a historical level to evolve from authoritarianism to totalitarianism to fascism. History is full of this, we can replicate it, but it's not up to date. However, if society calls on its culture, identity, religion, conscience as common values of mankind, if it has its own, if the other is accepted by the qualities of the Creator, if it is respected, the society will win, social dynamics will become the winners. But if you reject one of the identities, if you apply enemy law to one of the identities, the state will come out of the organism that distributes justice, the state will come out of the organism that maintains justice; where injustice, lawlessness, is brought to its knees, collapses, and resolves, where the state will lose, and society will lose. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, therefore, if the state is fair and equal, it must be neutral to religious identity and cultural differences, treat them equally, approach them at equal distance. The opportunity to live together in peace, depending on religious identity, sexual identity, or ethnic identity, is more than ever, against the need of the people of Turkey. And because we've been pushing the government's difficult device, the ideological devices, the suppressive devices, we've been building enemies from within, we've been failing, we've been failing, we've been procrastinating, we've been delaying, we've been pushing, we've been pushing, we've been making enemies from within us. Peoples are not enemies; peoples are friends, brothers. The parameters of this brotherhood's law on dialogue and negotiations have always been human, conscientious. Today, we need to approach the historical, political, social, ecological, economic, democratic problems that Turkey's Republic Assembly needs to do, at a point that predicts an open, peace-axis solution. War is loss, war is death, destruction, poverty, hunger, misery. Peace is freedom, justice, brotherhood. To be on the side of peace is our human, conscientious responsibility. Whatever our religious identity, ethnic identity, or political opinion, we're all losers when one of us criminalizes and terrorises the other when it's printed, instead of taking steps to meet the common values of humanity. What we're dealing with here is the immediate transfer of delayed, suspended and repressed freedoms to society, to society's dynamics. When you do not listen to NGOs, you cannot participate when you do not consider the legitimate demands of NGOs. He says that at a point where the existing problems of identity, religions and cultures are solved, the Parliament must seize the situation and be in a position to pave the way for society at a point on the basis of dialogue and negotiations.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0164par0300	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 2nd Amendment of the current Law Proposal 655 rows. We propose and propose that "last" in Article 24 of Article 1512, which was replaced by Article 1512, be changed into "Official Newspaper" and added the following joke to the article. "The identity card given to notaries by the Turkish Association replaces the official identity card given by all official and private organisations." Gürkut Acar (Antalia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0165par0308	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0164par0309	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0166par0310	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0164par0311	Mr. Gürkut Acar will speak on the motion, Antalya MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0167par0314	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Court of Justices and Prosecutors Act 655, and to the 2nd Amendment to the Amendment in Article 2 of the Law and Law. I salute you all. My dear friends, friends of the Justice and Development Party, you do this all the time, what you do, if you give the ring a spoon, you always gouge it out with the handle. You're camouflaged, to hide your true purpose, to hide it from the public, to bring in all the provisions that will be against the people under it, to violate the basic rules of the Republic in Turkey. See, in this article, in Article 2 you bring the ad in the Official Gazette to remove the notary's unnecessary ad costs. You're also saying that the identity cards given by the Notary Association will be official cards. These official identities were given to lawyers, as well as to these official identities, but the lawyers' identities were unfortunately invalid everywhere we went; not in banks, not in deed, not even at the entrance of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I came in, myself, myself, and I showed the lawyer's license there, and they didn't let me in, and I wasn't a congressman at the time, and I said, "If the Grand National Assembly doesn't accept a document of his own as an official identity, then what's the point of it? I didn't go in, my congressman friends came and let me in. My dear friends, if you're going to give it here, it's also true in the Law of Banks, and it applies in other laws, no exceptions. So, there's something missing here, and I'd like to bring it to your attention, my dear friends. Now, let's move on to other points. I just told you, it's just a cover-up. My dear friends, look, you're doing everything by hiding it from the public; you're doing it little by little, underhanded, slowly, slowly, digested. Really, that's what you did at the September 12, 2010 referendum. I mean, what was your purpose? It was to open the way for judgment on the decisions of the High Army and the Supreme Court, to try the soldiers in civil courts, to allow Ergenekon and the Sledgehammer to be tried for the coup. You did that injustice, you did the substructure. You wanted to intervene in the decision process by raising the number of members of the Constitutional Court from 11 to 17. You've changed the structure of the HSYK. But what were you suggesting? You said we would ensure equality of women and men, you said we would protect personal data, you said freedom of travel abroad, you said protection of family and children, you said access to more than one union, you promised civil servants collective contracts. None of this has happened, but the sledgehammer has opened the path to Ergenekon cases, and you have sparked injustice in Turkey. Now, about that law. What is your real purpose in this law? Your main objective is to create a judgment under the government, under the order of the Justice and Development Party, which is clear and clear, and we make a note of it in history. My dear friends, look, you have brought here, your main goal is to bend the terms for the membership of the State Court, to activate the president instead of the chairman's board of prosecutors, to establish two new apartments in the district office, to replace the members of the Council of Ministers, to interfere with the number of members of the departments through the Chief Prosecutor's Office. You see, underneath all this is the Justice and Development Party ruling the judiciary here as a party. So, what do you bring now? You're going to be a notary identity, you're going to be an electronic notary, you're going to offer legal training to judges who haven't studied law, you're going to increase the salary of judges and prosecutors, you're going to give them a raise, you're going to give them a disciplinary pardon, you're going to give them a gun pardon. My dear friends, look, none of this is enough to hide, and when these people find out, you'll see that one day they'll be chasing you around the streets with a broom handle. Now laugh, and one day we'll laugh, you'll see. Look, for the first time today, tomorrow morning, Professor Dr. Rennan was sentenced to two years and one month in prison for obstructing teaching, for reminding students of the Supreme Court and the Court of Prosecutors' decisions. That's the first prisoner your system has ever done. This is the first time you've been convicted of building the antilateral state system. I'm making a note of history, and you're going to pay for it. Tomorrow is a historic day. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0168par0325	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 2nd Amendment of the current Law Proposal 655 rows. By removing the text of "all official and private institutions " in its Article, " we propose and propose that the declaration be added to the official and private institutions. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0169par0332	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0168par0333	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0170par0334	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0168par0335	Mr. Faruk Bal will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0171par0338	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we don't agree with the President of the Justice Commission in a very loud voice, Mr. President. I'm going to try to explain why he should participate in what he says. My dear friends, the law is free of speech and soul. It's applied to your mouth and your soul, in Turkish. Of course, what we call a word is that the law is very important when one word is written, one word is written. One of them is that he uses clean and living Turkish, and the other is that he's a bell. He understands the word "baby" very well. Now, in our motion, we're trying to translate a strange expression in a clean language, such as the notary card given to notaries about Notarys -- after which, if you can get an opportunity from the Turkish Notary Union -- from the phones, members of parliament, perhaps you'll have something left in mind -- to be accepted by all official and private organizations. What does that mean? Instead, we bring out the official and private institutions. With such a clear, clear statement, Mr. President and Mr. Secretary have rejected such a statement. Of course, we understand that. Why do we understand? The Justice and Development Party, which is driven by waves, has launched wave operations against the judiciary in its political world. This has been mentioned 11 times in the Penal Code of the Wave Operations Act, called 8 times in the Supreme Court Act, 6 times in the Law of State, and has been subjected to eight more wave operations in the HSYK Law. In this law, there's a wave in the wave. We have no objection to the first wave, the first wave is an arrangement about notarys; that's true, it should be, we support. The second is about increasing the financial resources of judges and prosecutors. That's not enough, but we say yes, we say yes, we say yes, we say thank you, and we support you. However, there are two waves coming after that, which are one of the barriers that you want to break: you're destroying the mechanisms of balance and control between legislation, conduct and judiciary within the parliamentary democracy. You're under political influence, political influence, political pressure, and you're doing it to use it as a weapon in the future. You are under political pressure, political influence, and you are involved in plans and secret agendas to use it as a weapon. Now, just when we're here, you're removing the balance and control tools within the judiciary in the second dimension of this operation on the judiciary. We have hung judgment alone, it's not an institution that we cut, it's limited to law; it's controlled by its actions, its decisions, its balances and control mechanisms. In this control sentence, the Supreme Court, the State Department and HSYK are equipped with their own structures, administrative structures, with authority over each other. That's what you're doing with the donuts. So, by eliminating the distribution of business to the Supreme General Assembly agencies at the Supreme Court, you're taking control of all agencies by giving the First Presidential Council a work department under your political influence. That's not enough, you're giving the distribution of members in those offices to the First Presidential Board, to the First Presidential Council under political influence, and you're destroying the balance and control tools here. It's not enough, until the end of this statement...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0172par0345	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0171par0346	This ruin will lead to another disappointment in your future, like 2010. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0172par0349	Thank you. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions in Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the Ministership of the Ministership of the 2nd article of the 655th amendment of the proposed law shall be changed by the ministry. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 3rd of Law Proposal 655. By removing the word "verilen" from the text in the article, we submit and propose the addition of the inscription. Faruk Bal Kemalettin Yılmaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 3rd of the current Law Proposal No. 655. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. When appointed, notary notary notarys in the same class are based on seniors in the notary profession. A notary document issued by the Ministry of Justice in accordance with seniority is preferable to one who has the order number first. Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Ali İhsan İkturk Ömer Süha Aldan Namik Havutça Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0173par0373	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0172par0374	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0174par0375	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0172par0376	Mr. Namik will speak Havut on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0175par0379	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, Turkey is losing real blood on judicial independence. Look, the Minister is here. We, the CHP, base our criticisms on international reports, not just as a systematic political argument. Look, the identification by OECD (OECD) has been made about us: Turkey is ranked 23/3 in economic policy among 41 countries, 39/point in social policy, 41, which is the latest in democratic quality, Mr. Secretary. How's he doing in judicial independence? I'll tell you that. In the World Economic Forum Global Information Technologies Report (2014), who are the 85th and the 85th and the 14th from the 7 points in the judicial independence index? We're side by side with countries like Morocco, Kazakhstan, Vietnam. That's what Turkey comes up with in judicial independence. Why is this happening? Don't we all want Turkey to meet with the criteria of the European Union, an institutionalized democracy, human rights, the quality of freedoms, since 1965? Yes, that's our will. So, what do you guys do? Look, we're at the forefront of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is in violation of the European Convention on Human Rights. The European Union progress reports have serious criticism of us, Turkey. If you have read the latest European Union Progress Report, Mr. Secretary, you will see how Turkey is in severe violation of judicial independence. And in this law that you brought in, without consulting anyone, all the Bars were making statements yesterday, the Bar Association is making statements, and our Bars are making statements. In Turkey, right now, there are a lot of problems with the judiciary. There's a loss on the legal staff's salaries, there's an extension of cases, there's a lack of cases, there's warnings from the European Court of Human Rights about us; they're not being corrected. Why don't you sit down with the bar... and the most important thing about this law in Turkey is the argument-defension-judgment. So, have we discussed what kind of legal arrangement the representatives of the defense are going to sit down with the barmen? No. Mr. Secretary brings himself a legal arrangement, signs three lawmakers, comes to our attention, corrects our friends at the Justice Commission, however much they can. What's the direction of Turkey? Are we going to be a Middle Eastern country, or are we going to be a proud member of the European Union, a democratic country that raises the standards of law? Let's get our bearings. So, look, in this article... yes, the UYAP system is a healthy system in Turkey, our lawyer friends know, but we're concerned about what you're bringing with the Notary Act. What is it? The sharing of information creates the possibility that third people who are not interested in non-disclosure notary procedures will find out. It's a very important risk. Look, how is it that when this legal arrangement is passed in this manner... private life information involving privacy has been reported in Turkey today. So, we worked with our friends at the bug commission. Many information is said to be in the archive of the state -- as the former head of the Security Intelligence Agency expressed to us -- to be used when it comes to it. Again, you know in the MIT Act that the law has given you the right and the right to access all accounts of occupational organisations, political parties, unions, institutions, holdings. We can all imagine how this will affect the privacy principle, the rights and freedoms of one person, when these information is in the hands of others uncontrollably. In that sense, we, once again, are making our historic warning here. I'm saying that Turkey should now really demonstrate a legal desire to guarantee independence of the judiciary, the state of law, democratic rights and freedoms. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0176par0391	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 3rd of Law Proposal 655. By removing the word "verilen" from the text in the article, we submit and propose the addition of the inscription. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0177par0398	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0176par0399	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0178par0400	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0176par0401	In the motion, Samsun MP Jamalettin Simsek will speak. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0179par0404	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the National Party of Action to change the Law on Justices and Prosecutors Number 655, and on Article 3/3 of the Law Proposal. I hereby salute your esteemed delegation. Dear lawmakers, the notary document given by the Ministry of Justice has been provided on the basis of the order number as the appointment of notary documents is being changed by changing a joke in the Notary Law No. 1512, with notary notarms being assigned to the same place, with a change in the criteria taken into consideration of the notary's being assigned from somewhere. In the amendment proposal that we have made concerning this clause, it is requested that the meaning disorder be removed from the text of the substance and replaced. However, I'd like to say that we find this clause reasonable, that we've submitted this amendment motion to make it more meaningful. Dear MPs, the nationalist movement party's main concern and regret is that the Justice and Development Party's method of lawmaking is now known to all of us. It's usually to come across the House with a bag of legislation, and, as in this law, the main goal is to try to cover it up by putting in a few articles that we can call enthralling. As the speakers of the National Movement Party have stated earlier, I would like to say once again that even though we find that this law proposal is inadequate, we are willing to make improvements in the fees of our judges and prosecutors and support other positive arrangements. Dear MPs, our concern as the National Movement Party is that during the 12 years of Justice and Development Party's rule, we become a respectable country in the world. Turkey is constantly changing down steps in fundamental rights and freedoms, freedoms, human rights and freedom of the press in the rule of Justice and Development. Finally, in 2014, Turkey ranked number 154th in the free press ranking of 180 countries. Turkey has become an increasingly lonely country in the world. Dear lawmakers, what does justice and development do when these developments are happening in our country? A leader, especially in totalitarian regimes in the Third World, who is getting richer and richer by an unfair and unlawful gain; a palace built unfairly and unlawfully for this leader, especially in 17-25 December corruption operations, using all democratic organs, including law and execution, using institutions and corruption and corruption. In the meantime, let's look at the content of the laws that the AKP has brought to our Assembly, a law proposal that has generally addressed the problems of our country, which solves the problem of our citizen, is almost never seen. Dear lawmakers, what is the purpose of the Justice and Development Party in this law? To make certain arrangements, to overcome the challenges that come his way, to seize life. Of course, all laws are unfortunately short-lived, since the law has been set up for a number of so-called measures, without any discussion. The proposal for this law, as it has previously been, has been changed six months ago in the Criminal Court of Justice, where instead of the concrete evidence in the search for the suspect or the defendant, the search for the defendant is being returned today to seek reasonable doubt. It was a matter that was arranged according to the needs of that day. And once the Justice and Development Party's need for this clause is resolved, you're turning it back into a more accurate, more accurate part. Such errors in the lawmaking technique are often involved in our Parliament because of shortcomings. Now, with this proposed law... yes, the National Movement Party is not against a number of substances that we would refer to as enticing, but we have already stated that we would support... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're also opposed to certain substances you'd like to remove. On this occasion, I salute you once again.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0180par0416	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the statement of the Ministership of the Ministership of the 2nd article of the 655th amendment of the proposed law shall be changed by the ministry. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0181par0423	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0180par0424	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0182par0425	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0180par0426	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to make sense of the narrative. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 4 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 4th amendment of the current Law Proposal No. 655. We submit and propose the addition of the declaration given by health care agencies, by removing it from the text of its terms. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Cemalettin Lightning Mustafa Kalaycı Mustafa Erdem Kemalettin Yılmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 4th Law Proposal in the current 655th Row. In the first sentence of Article 59 of Article 512 replaced by Article 1512, we propose and recommend that the public prosecutor's office and the government's medical examiners and the public hospital's declaration be replaced in accordance with their reported illness. Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Omar Suha Aldan Jesus Sky Flood Köse Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 4th amendment of the current law proposal, 655 rows, shall be changed in the following way. "The first sentence of Article 59 of Law 1512 has been changed as follows. 'Noters, in case of illness, are considered allowed within the following grounds, depending on the time they receive a doctor's report on their illness. ▪ Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı The secret is Darayya Leader Erol Dora Demir Çelik Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0183par0453	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0180par0454	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0184par0455	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0180par0456	Mr. Iron Steel will speak on the motion, Mr. Muk MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0185par0458	Mr. President, I salute you with respect and love on behalf of myself and my party. We don't have a Minister of Justice, though. What is the main goal that is desired in a reform, to solve society's accumulated political, historical problems? So it has to be radical, it has to be transformative, it has to have the potential to meet the needs of society, but it also has the parameters of solution. If reform serves to create a perception that it alone and alone solves the problem, it will mean nothing but offering us apple sugar, and it will have no quality. Instead of radical interference to open up some of the deadlocks, they left the problem in a position to collect, unresolve. Yes, the judiciary is important, and the independence of the judiciary is more important than anything, because the judiciary exists to offer the person, the group, the freedom the state has spared, and justice. The power that holds the state may be military, militant, police state, policing practices, continuing the authoritarianism of individuals and governments; however, the only power is the guarantee of meeting the needs of society, the guarantor is independent judgment. When it comes to the independence of weapons that are essential to the state of law, it must be understood that the judiciary, the law, the administration, is playing its historical role, regardless of political guardianship, the state's hierarchical relationship, at a limited point. But what is predicted here is that, above all, he does not simply establish and shape the political guardianship, the Supreme Court, the Court, the Court, the Court, but also the notary system, the bar system, the society's civil, democratic organisation, the concerns of the state, the doubts, and the needs to intervene and shape. There's no democracy here. Unfortunately, there are many judicial problems that Turkey has not solved in over 90 years. The rights of judges, prosecutors, delayed and unresolved cases, the files facing collected dust on the shelves are in need of a solution. But it's a relationship that's marketed to us as reform, which, as it's always been, imposes on us a slave-master relationship instead of justice and freedom. In that way, the problem is approached by understanding and approach, which leads to the accumulation of problems, gangrene. For the past two days, our President's words, which have once again marked the agenda, reveal what he understands from the judiciary, what he understands from the government and what our President understands. The tradesman also has the freedom to conduct business. The tradesman can't be a cop, the tradesman can't be a referee, the tradesman can't be a judge; the tradesman is a member of an NGO, it's an element, it's out of state, it's impotent. It's his duty not to approach the problem from a point on which the state is blessed, but to oppose the state's rights from a point of certainty, to oppose them. That's the only way society can move forward. If you put the hierarchy, the power, the state against everyone, instead of society and society, there's no justice here. In that way, I will have to fight corruption, ban and poverty for 12 years instead of the justice and development party's name, and for its persistent 12 years. Instead, you will approach a problem that increases unemployment, poverty, poverty, multiplying, reducing justice, fair conduct so that you will not be able to escape from a situation that has been solved, collapsed, and increasingly discredited by society. Therefore, I would also like to remind Mr. Minister of Justice that the road is near, and that a reform that keeps as far away from the outlaw mentality as possible is a reform that quickly moves our peace; beyond that, it's a deception, it's a waste of time, resources and work, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0186par0466	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 4th Law Proposal in the current 655th Row. In the first sentence of Article 59 of Article 512 replaced with Article 512, we propose and propose that the "patient notaries from the Republic Prosecutor's Office" channel and the declaration "Noters, because of the diseases they received from government doctors or from state hospitals." Flood Köse (Sorum) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0187par0473	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0186par0474	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0188par0475	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0186par0476	On the motion, Mr. Cork MP will speak to Mr. Flood Köse. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0189par0478	Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you about a few things before the law, because we agree on notary arrangements -- except for the 6th Amendment. There was a motion to investigate the teachers earlier, and I'd like to say a few words about it. In ancient Turkey -- thousands -- palaces were poorer than Turkey -- but poor children could study at boarding schools without money and eat and drink. The journey of poor family children from the village led to a guaranteed journey of hope. Every teacher who graduated from teacher's school would have given a job to an old Turkey before the AKP. There was no unemployed teacher in ancient Turkey. My grandfather was able to get five kids to graduate college on a teacher's salary, and my father was able to get his two kids to go to college on a teacher's salary. In ancient Turkey, teachers were not as rich as they are today, but wealthy as they are now, full of hope in ancient Turkey, not obliged to unemployment or unhappiness as they are now. My dear friends last week, like today's Prime Minister in the past, held talks and talks in Dersim. Seven Flames in the last six years. What's the use of seven Flames? If you're sincere about solving the problems of the Alevi, bring the arrangements tomorrow, or bring the demands that we have, and we'll get them out of here tomorrow. You have to understand that you can't paint the Aleki's eyes with openings, workshops, visits, shows. You think the Alevis have problems, or the Alevis themselves are a problem. Are you saying that you should do the internal reckoning among yourselves first? The Prime Minister is gone, he says. You say, Mr. Prime Minister, you say, "Horasan eren," you say, "Hadji Bektas Veli," you say, "Father Mansur," but on the third bridge, you say, "Yavuz Sultan Selim. What diet is this? What sauerkraut is this? [[From the AK PARTY rows ▪ What about the sound of his voice?]] You know exactly what it is.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0190par0484	He's ours and he's ours.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0189par0485	Yavuz Sultan Selim is a Hitler in the eyes of Alevi, when Yavuz Sultan Selim Alevi drank the blood of his children.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0191par0487	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0189par0488	There's nothing to leave.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0191par0489	What's the point of all this?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0189par0490	You're talking about Sultan Selim. You're making the lawyers of the Sivas case, you're making the MP, you're making the board member of the Anadolu Agency...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0191par0491	Leave history to historians.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0189par0492	You're a member of the Constitutional Court. You love the Dead Flames, you're not trying to solve the problems of the Living Alevi. My dear friends, now, until this period of power, the credibility and stability of the law had not really been harmed. Now, he's just said that one of our friends, one of the AKP's ranks, is objecting... what did Rennan Pekunlü do? The Constitutional Court has kept a record of its decisions and the European Court of Human Rights rulings. Is there anything beyond that? It seems to me that two years and one month, this judicial order, this politicalized judicial order, has given less than enough, so let's actually hang it, Rennan Pekunlı. He's going to prison tomorrow. From here, I send him my greetings and regards on behalf of my group, and I send him my love. Now, the Chairman of the Supreme Court recently issued a statement regarding this law. The Supreme Court chief says that since our previous opinions and proposals have never been evaluated and we have not been asked about the institutional opinion, we, the Council of Presidents, will not give any opinion on this law.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0192par0495	Mr. President, I apologize, I interrupt the clerk, but this gentleman here, the congressman, he's turning his back on you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0193par0496	Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0192par0497	I beg of you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0193par0498	You have no right, please.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0194par0499	What's it to you, my friend? What a dirty man you are!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0192par0500	There's a way, a way, a way to sit in the House.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0193par0501	Go ahead, Mr. Speaker.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0192par0502	Please, I beg of you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0195par0503	What's it to you, bro?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0193par0504	Mr. Tanal, please. You can come in here and tell me. You have no right to interfere, please. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0196par0506	If you'll add my time now, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0193par0507	I will. There's no such procedure, no muss, nothing. Now that I've put it all aside, it doesn't exist.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0196par0509	Now, dear friends, on 28/06/2014, Law No. 6545 was terminated by the Supreme Court of First Presidents. How long has it been? It's been five months. Five months from now, with this law, you're rescinding the Supreme Court of First Presidents with this proposal you want to bring in. Where does he stay, the integrity of the law, the independence of the judiciary? I'm curious to know what you want from the Supreme Court. I mean, don't lawmakers here ever question that in their own group? Again, the Supreme Court's president says that the clauses intended to be changed are not based on the demands of the Supreme Court. Why don't our lawmakers pay any attention to the judiciary, the Supreme Court culture, and the independence of the judiciary? I'm curious, I'm curious. In the past, the judges of Ergenekon had never believed that this order would change, perhaps you will remember. And you don't believe this order will ever change, but believe me, the day will come when you will surely pay for what you've done today. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0197par0514	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 4th amendment of the current Law Proposal No. 655. We submit and propose the addition of the declaration given by health care agencies, by removing it from the text of its terms. Mustafa Erdem (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0198par0521	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0197par0522	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0199par0523	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0197par0524	Ankara MP Mustafa Erdem will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0200par0527	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 4th Amendment of Law Proposal No. 655. I salute you all with love. The main duty of the High Assembly is to make laws, to make laws. This law, the peace of society, the unity and unity of the nation, is very important for the future of the state. However, the fact that the laws that have been passed so far have been considered to be personal, for the people, for the group, or for a political party is considered a remarkable threat to our state tradition, our national unity and our social integrity. Because the fact that today's special laws have been changed for someone else tomorrow in the form of a new person's special law has become common amongst the practices of this House. I'd like to remind you that if there really are laws that need to be passed in terms of our social integrity, then there's no need to rush into it, let's wait, let's wait, let's take the end, let's take the length of it, and let's get the law out of it. A new amendment to legislation every day during the 12-year AKP ruling period, a amendment every day, is now an issue that we have had enough of as a society. Dear lawmakers, our great religion and cultural traditions first inform us that the work is the fear of God. No matter what law you make, no matter how you pass it, if you can't inspire that feeling in people, if you can't provide this spirit, this consciousness, none of the laws you've made will mean anything. Again, in our traditions, it is noted that you have no right to ask for what you don't want for yourself, but come again, in this great House, the hostility to one of them, to seize one's rights, or to put one of them in a privileged position among the others, has always been brought to the attention of the law, and has been made to be guaranteed by law. Again, within our values, your hatred or hostility towards a people is taught not to lead you into injustice against them, but we have become a people who have become a normal people, who have become a normal attitude towards others, and we have somehow endeavored to secure it under the sacred roof of this great Assembly. Now, I'd like to ask you a question: Dear lawmakers, what prevented a AKP government in power for twelve years to make these legal arrangements, even though it was so long gone? I want to remind you once again that I remind you of a lot of things from here: what changed so quickly that we needed to live in connection with judges, prosecutors, judges, or members of the Court? Or do we have a concern, a concern, a fear? Or have we taken on such a duty as to mortgage the will of the High Council to discipline someone or to exploit the feelings of this innocent nation? What suits us is that justice is fair to everyone. Otherwise, a miscalculation of the scales of justice means we have to ignore that the laws passed today will be a threat to others tomorrow. In his statement yesterday, Mr. Minister noted that some of the weirdos who work at the justice institution cannot be considered financially because the budget couldn't afford it. Well, the judges and prosecutors deserve $1,155 to vote, raise a hand, but who will protect the rights of this country, this nation, when it has to serve those judges and prosecutors who are proud and conscious of being a member of this state? And I'm asking you, how are we going to build and build this trust that we're getting from this nation? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to point out that there will be no peace and quiet in this community unless we act fairly here. First I say that those who are called justice must rule fairly, and I offer you all love and respect.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0201par0536	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions in Article 5: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 5th Amendment of the current Law Proposal 655. We propose and supply to change the expression of the article into,,,,,,,,,. Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Uğur Bayraktutan Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 5th amendment of the 655th amendment of the 5th amendment of the 655th amendment to the 116th and 198/A/A/116th and 198/A. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı Secrets by Darayya Önder Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Cemalettin Lightning Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0202par0559	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0201par0560	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0203par0561	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0201par0562	Mr. Iron Steel will speak on the motions. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0204par0565	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, it's a matter we're discussing, we're talking about, we're stuck with a package of judgment and a bag of legislation, and we need to discuss it heavily. In addition to this, I'd like to bring one of the important issues of today and our agenda to your attention. Recently, the AKP government in particular wants to renew its hope, acting as if it's an unresolved section of today's problems, as pragmatist approaches the upcoming elections with the agenda to change the agenda. As he has always done, the habit of unresolved and unresolving the problems of the street's Ayþe (Aisha), Ahmetίin, Mehmetίin, or Ayþe (Azeka), as he has always done, is at a point that cloudes the possibilities. Alevis are equal, free citizens of the country we call Turkey, but even though there are no more than 15 million homogeneous identities in 76 million, they have been around for years, but we don't want to think about their rights at the point of worship, neither of faith, nor of free citizenship. Mr. President expressed it, not satisfied, but addressed it to Mr. Prime Minister. In fact, by going to Dersim, he put people in the hope that he would solve the problem, but as usual, the unresolved one of history's delayed problems has left us to face. Religion is the quest for justice against oppression, against injustice, against oppression, against the hierarchy of mankind, especially in three heavenly religions, it is the search for freedom, for equality. Religion is one of the basic ways of attaining righteousness. But ever since religion became a state religion, it's been at a point where it's deprived of equality and freedom, not justice, equality, freedom. They have forgotten all that is good and all that is good and all that is right, and have seen all that is in need of power for the center. If religion is one of those beliefs, if good, good, good, and true, then the State should not have come to the trouble from a point that prevents and repels and suppresses this belief. If the Alevis are one of the ancient beliefs of this community and this country, we have to approach a reality, such as Turkey, Kurd, Arab Alevi, and if there is a reality, then we have to approach it from a point that meets their basic needs. Therefore, when the Minister of Justice brought this reform, it had to be within the scope of the Alevi's self-government status. The Cemevs should have been chosen as a place of worship, legal security as a place of worship, religious lessons should have been removed from necessity, and regardless of the state, religion, whatever its identity, whatever its gender, it should have been neutral to everyone, anyone, no matter what its identity. The state that should be neutral is the state of law, but it seems that the state of the Republic of Turkey insists on not having any part of it. If the institution we call the Diet today has a budget above the 5 ministries, it has the right to share in education, health care and other ministries, while the Alevis are still unable to freely use their own places of worship, their imams, grandfathers, or January owners, and as a sin, it is the duty of this Assembly, which is the will of the people above all. If Congress can't solve these problems, if it doesn't show the will to solve them, then it can't show the representation it deserves in the community. So, at an unscheduled point where we haven't been able to solve it in two years, it seems like we're looking for a solution, and we haven't succeeded in a peaceful democratic solution to the Kurdish problem, and the solution that we can't solve the Alevi problem these days passes through us, through the people, the beliefs, through the civil democratic organisations of society, it says, I offer respects.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0205par0573	Thank you. The other speaker is Konya MP Faruk Bal, please.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0206par0576	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we'll pick up where we left off. We expressed the judiciary as a tool that balances and oversees its place in parliamentary democracy. And with this bill, we were talking about how the balance and control mechanisms within the judiciary have been broken. My dear friends, as in the Supreme Court, the mechanisms of balance and control have been established within the HSYK, as in the Supreme Court. As long as there are these balancing and controlling mechanisms, the judiciary feels secure, this sense of confidence becomes legal credibility, the country's confidence in peace, security, and as a result, the public's confidence in the judiciary increases, but in this bill, the balance tools within the judiciary are failing, the mechanisms of balance are failing. I'd like to share this broken mechanism with you in relation to the past. In the past, in 2010, when you're changing the Constitution, we're going to destroy the Kast regime. Someone chooses someone, and he chooses someone, but people don't have a voice here, they don't have breath. You broke those balance and control tools in the 2010 Constitutional Amendment, and as a result, Turkey was faced with a messy judiciary and a shattered legal order. As a result, during the December 17th and December 25th operations, when the trial began to touch AKP's Zulfuia, you became sane, and now you're looking for an operation against this judiciary. With this operation, you're disrupting balances within the State Department, you're taking full powers within the Council of Presidents who have made some judicial-qualified executive decisions within the Court, and you're forming a presidential committee, which is similar to the one you've already complained about, after you've taken over the majority, along with 37 other members who will be added to the prosecution. This presidential board will determine the members of the prosecutor's office, who will serve within the tax offices, which will determine which cases they will be facing, and even the coroners will submit to a decision between the two lips of this board, and will work under the shadow of your new AKP intention, as well as by its members who will serve in the apartments, as well as by those who will work in the kitchen of those apartments. Such a State Department can never and will not carry out the function of controlling all the actions and procedures of power within its democratic parliamentary system, because it is under political influence, because it is under political influence, because it owes loyalty to those who bring it there, or will be influenced by the influence it will use on those who bring it there. This will result in the removal of this function of the State, which is responsible for implementing what we call the rule of law in terms of administrative courts. You'll be the one who will suffer the most in the future. So come to your senses and let's get it over with. Is that an issue? Yes, it's a matter, it's a matter of law, and the rule of law must be resolved. In the rule of rule of law, the value we accept is the independence of the judiciary, the neutrality of the judiciary, and the assurance of justice. The Nationalist Movement Party is against the caste system that will be built on it and will continue to oppose it.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0207par0581	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 5th Amendment of the current Law Proposal 655. We propose and supply to change the expression of the article into,,,,,,,,,. Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0208par0588	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0207par0589	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0209par0590	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0207par0591	Mr. Ugur Bayraktutan will speak on the motion, Mr. Artvin MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0210par0594	Mr. President, highly valued lawmakers, I would like to bring to the attention the problems with notarys, even though there are many injuries to this proposal of the law. Mr. Secretary, I've been thinking about what to tell the Secretary of State about notaryism, and I'd really like to tell the Minister of Justice. Mr. Secretary, the notary's notary issues could have been discussed while he was here, but they don't have that problem, Mr. Secretary. Anyway, Mr. Attorney General is here. Now, dear lawmakers, we have serious problems with notaryism. What is it? Look, I just brought you a white paper. Look behind this paper, normally, Mr. Secretary, anywhere in the world, even in Europe, outside the system in Turkey, there is no valuable paper price, my dear fellow lawmakers. You're going to say, how much detail do you know? He's got a special occasion, I'll tell you eventually. Look, when you take that paper to the notary, when the government seals it, they get $7.55, my dear friends. The valuable paper price is not in any country of the European Union. And other than that, if it's a power of attorney, if it's a power of attorney, the state seals it again, and it pays 15 lira in this blank paper, my dear friends. The notary doesn't charge for it, Mr. Secretary. It's not, in fact, a valuable paper price, it's more Turkish for tribute, not tuition. The government hits it under the seal, gets paid for it. The Notary Act was published in 1972, and there is a serious problem. Our people have a common, common belief that notary fees are expensive. My dear friends, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance on this, we need to correct this first, so how is it $7.55 when this blank paper is sealed? You have to fix this first. I told Mr. Secretary yesterday that the esteemed MPs, the Turkish Bar Association, have a request. The Turkish Bar Association says: "Let us be given green passports." From the looks of it, the State Department is building a wall. The State Department building this wall is a request for 100,000 lawyers. Now, I'm telling you why this request from the Turkish Bar Association is utopian. Now, there are 1,700 notary notaries in Turkey, my dear friends. The Turkish Association of Notarys did some research on these, including how many notarys using green passports? And the figures that came out are interesting. 923 notaries don't use green passports, nearly 600 notaries have a green passport. What does that mean, Mr. Secretary, the esteemed MPs? That means that before the notary went into the profession, he was either a judge or he was also a treasure lawyer. Now, once these get to work, they don't need green passports. The Turkish Association of Notarys says: "Give a thousand notars a green passport. " A thousand notars, my dear friends. Now, can a government that doesn't give a thousand notary green passports give a hundred thousand lawyers green passports? As far as I'm concerned, let the Turkish Bar Association take back its engagement, take back its demand. It's a utopia, it's impossible to make that dream come true, my dear friends. Now, all over the world, especially in the countries of the European Union, there are 40,000 noters in the countries of the European Union -- my dear friends -- real estate sales are being sold in notaries, real estate sales are being made in notaries. In inheritance law, especially after the adoption of the Civil Law, you know that when you look at inheritance law and family law in both the law and other legal framework of the individual, a new arrangement was made in the early years of the republic, and the arrangements for real estate sales are being carried out in the property register offices, my dear friends, but here's what needs to happen at the coming point: there are two phases of sales. One of them is the contract phase, the other phase of registration. Such dear friends of mine in the countries of the European Union -- the registration process is being performed in the office of the deed registration office, but the contract phase must be done in front of those who are law-abiding, who know the law. Unfortunately, the thing about that is ignored. Sales are not being carried out in notary offices today. There are serious problems with this. Look, there's an arrangement for inheritance terms, my dear friends. From 2011 to today, notaries have issued 1,200,000 veracity warrants after the legal arrangement for notaries of inheritance. Be careful with the number, my dear friends. From October 2011 to this direction, Mr. Secretary, the number of probates given by notarys is 1,200,000. Not a single objection. What does that mean? So notarys, law-enforcement people, they don't just print out a computer, Mr. Secretary, they also reveal their own legal formations, and they do their own calculations on the inheritance clauses, and they come in and give them the valid documents until they prove otherwise. Today our citizens don't go to civil courts, they come to notaries. But there's something interesting about the arrangement. According to reports, there is a preparation in the Ministry of Interior and Internal Affairs Commission for this to be removed from the population managers' offices as a computer output, with no need for justices of the peace. This led to a major disaster in the notary community, causing a major imposition. I hope this information is wrong with us, and I hope this information the Notary Association has given me is wrong. I'll talk about the rest of the stuff in the next article. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0211par0607	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 6 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 655th amendment of Law Proposal. Article 1 of Article 1/A added with Article 1. By removing the word "predicted" in his joke from the text, we provide and propose the addition of the word "declared." You have brought Lightning Yusuf Halaçoğlu Faruk Bal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 655th Law Proposal. Article 3. We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the material text. Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Jesus Gök Omar Suha Aldan Ugur Bayraktutan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 6th article of the current law proposal, 655 rows, be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Ertugrul Kürçü Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0212par0630	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0211par0631	The government...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0213par0632	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0211par0633	Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0214par0636	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are called the reform of justice. The government calls it the revolution. The security package will follow, and he'll complete it.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0215par0637	The counter-revolution, the counter-revolution.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0214par0638	He calls it the revolution. What revolution, fellas? This is, like honey, a parliamentary majority coup. So you're bringing in a system where you're bringing reasonable doubt, you're bringing in secret listening, like you want -- you're violating the Constitution in what you call judicial reform -- and then you're preventing lawyers from looking at the file in what you call judicial reform. You're disposing of the right of attorney to defend the sacred rights. The equality of weapons is the essential element of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. I mean, there's no equality between the argument and the defense, there's no justice. Justice is over, so don't let anyone fool you. Now, what you're getting out of here is you're bringing in a tracking system, technical tracking, tracking. And you do something else -- weird but -- you expand the scope of crime, you bring in the seizure of crimes against the government. So people are responsible for their own actions in accordance with the principle of the individuality of punishment. So you're going to put a measure on his house -- you know that the goods are common -- in marriages -- so you're going to try to punish the family. Now, in this respect, the government is returning to a detective agency, but since the detective agency is not enough, the security package will land on the Internal Affairs Commission on Wednesday, and there, the police will enter the house they want -- the search warrant, the court decision -- will make the call they want. He'll turn your car around, he'll say, "Wait, I don't like your type, you're suspicious." He'll say, "Open the engine, open the hood, move the right, I'll look for you for 24 hours." No one can object, no one can argue, no one can argue. You're going to give this order to the governors, you're going to make 81 state-of-the-art governors, super governors. This is not a state of security; this is a judgment which is not acceptable even in the law of clear fascism. Because there's a 2015 election, and if you accidentally go to power tomorrow, you're going to be smoking with those laws. Every day the police come to your house, search your house, search your clothes, search your car. I mean, if someone wants to abuse these laws, they'll cut you off. So don't call it a revolution, friends, it's like honey, and it's usually ruled by the dictatorship regimes to sustain the dictatorship regimes. Now, imagine, if you put so many provisions in the security package that there's no court order, there's no objection, and look at the 90's where the perpetrators were most committed, the people who would be taken out of their home and disappeared will go to the unknown. Each man who finds a fake police presence, an identity, will go into people's homes, and he will say: "Hands up, you are suspicious, you are wanted, open up the safes, pull the drawers." No one will object to that. Can you? Didn't you enter the House with six fake METIST IDs, brother? They entered the House with six fake MIT IDs. MIT was already given these powers, e.M.I. is already at your disposal. Now you guys are gonna be on your ass with every fake cop I.D. You won't be able to call a search warrant. I don't need the governor's, I don't know, the governor's orders. He must have seen you as a suspect. You're bad-looking, you're not good-looking, you're uncomfortable with your looks, you're losing your looks... Guys, think about the police situation: get out of the car, get out of the car, open the trunk. Your type is suspicious. You played the song here or something, you're suspicious. No, you've done this, you've turned your lights on too much, you're suspicious. You've made Turkey suspicious, suspicious! You're a suspect, suspect! Friends, this won't win anyone, it's bad for all of you, it's bad for all of us. Let's stop, let's stop, let's stop, let's stop, let's stop, let's stop, let's stop, let's stop, let's stop, let's stop, let's
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0216par0644	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 655th Law Proposal. Article 3. We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the material text. Uğur Bayraktutan (Artvin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0217par0651	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0216par0652	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0218par0653	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0216par0654	On the motion, Mr. Ugur Bayraktutan of Artvin.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0219par0656	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'm continuing to explain the notary's problems from where I'm staying. Now, I've just told you about the demands of the Notary Corps and the notary notaries in Turkey regarding real estate. I had made it clear that the basic argument here was the principle of legal security, that a legal person should sign under this bond as well as mutual trust in the sale of real estate, that when real estate sales were made in the notars, possible false claims and the cancellation of property and registration cases would likely be reduced. Although the Association of Notarys has been demanding this matter for years, unfortunately, the results have not been received. As I've just said, there are nearly 40,000 notaries in the European Union countries. The Turkish Association of Notarys agrees as observers. These real estate sales are notarized by the Notary Union's demands, and there's no problem, and I'd like to express it once again from Parliament, from the great Parliament, my dear friends. Look, there's been a real situation with car sales in traffic registration offices, and there's been major problems. In particular, there were serious disputes among individuals, which brought lawsuits to the main court of law. There have been lawsuits regarding the cancellation of the property contract on traffic registration, but at the same time, especially after these sales came to the notary, there were no objections to the signing of the property, no objections to the transfer of the property. So there's nothing wrong with notarizing sales like this. Now, my dear friends, we'd like to discuss matters of substance. Now, look, as far as electronic transactions are concerned, the Notarys Association has no problems, although there is no opposition, it has its reservations about electronic transactions. Why? Turkey is the second country in the world where cybercrimes have been committed since the United States of America, my dear friends. For this reason, Turkey has signed under many agreements in international parliaments, in all its own parliaments, over the fight against cybercrimes. Now, there are serious problems with the application of such a will statement, especially when we reveal the existence of an illiterate group, especially in our country, with electronic transactions. The Turkish Association of Notarys doesn't say anything about this, but I do know that, personally, notaries, notors on the Board of Directors, and notaries on the outside, are having second thoughts that when we talk to our friends who are the experts in this business, especially electronic operations, there may be a problem for their safety in the future. They say that a cyber attack like this could be a problem for the safety of documents, because the notary is required to have documents, that if they go to the notary or in the notary's presence, they will present a possible problem for the safety of this contract, as I have just stated, one day tomorrow, in terms of the safety of the job, in terms of this contract. I'd like to express our reservations in Parliament in order to make a note of history. I've just said, dear MPs, look, notaries don't want anything else, a passport incident. Mr. Secretary, if he's sensitive to this -- I've been trying to tell you all along -- a thousand of my dear friends, only a thousand people in Turkey. The government -- I don't think it's small, I don't think it's low -- gives green passports to the lowest public official, the public official, who served him for many years, the hierarchical mertebeisile, my dear friends. He doesn't give green passports to notaries, why? Now, let's discuss this. Notary, the most trusted officer in the state of the Republic of Turkey, dear lawmakers, most notary trusts the state. You know why he trusts the notary? Because he only gives his seal to the notary in Turkey, he says: "Al, this is my seal, take it, use this seal." But when it comes to the passport phase, no, you're the stepson, you're the tukakaka. He says, it's impossible to accept, my dear friends. I know the Minister means well, and I hope, I hope, and so does the Association of Notarys. Mr. Secretary, is it too much to give them a green passport to raise their professional reputation by removing the wall that the State Department has built in front of us, so that notarys can actually serve them in a sense? I'd like to address this here in Parliament as absurd. The notary's problems are obvious, as I've just expressed. In particular, I have discussed my concerns about the 7th article two or three times, and the 7th article will come to me in a moment -- Levent Bey laughs from there -- the Tashih of the 7th article, and I hope that the regulation on this issue will comfort both the Notaries' Union and the principles of equality in the Law and the Constitution. In this regard, the common council of Parliament says it is interesting to show that law is dominant in Turkey, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0220par0669	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 655th amendment of Law Proposal. Article 1 of Article 1/A added with Article 1. We provide and propose the addition of the word "predicted" in his joke to the word "predicted" from the text. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0221par0676	We don't care, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0220par0677	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0222par0678	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0220par0679	Mr. Faruk Bal will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0223par0682	Mr. Commissioner gave a different answer. It's not a motion he didn't take, but it's a courtesy of me to talk about other things. My dear friends, of course, if you don't learn, history will repeat itself. If you break the mechanisms of balance and control within the legal system, you'd see another disaster coming, as it turned out. Now, one by one, in the legal order of the cause of that disaster, you have to fulfill it in accordance with the principle of individuality and legality of crimes. I mean, you have to do what you have to do against the community you're fighting against, within the limits of the law, if there is a crime. If there is a congregation imam in the Supreme Court, as the former Minister of Justice stated, and he is taking the files to Pennsylvania -- his claim -- this is a disciplinary action in the Supreme Court. Again, in the penal code, it is a crime subject to specific procedures, which you must execute. That's the rule of law. But that's not what you do. How do you do it? You take the congregation, which you see as a mass, within the measure of the invasion, and you engage in illegal activities against it. In these activities, you will use the members you will elect to the high judiciary as ammunition, and you will use them as soldiers. Is there such a thing, such a concept of law? This idea of law leads us to strange points: My dear friends, in 2007 a bill bearing the signature of the Justice Minister's Council of Ministers of the Time sent to our Parliament. It says here that the number of members of the judge is 250, so let's reduce it to 150. The number of apartments is greater, and let's lower this to a lower level. • The idea of this bill, which was sent to serve a different purpose in the terms of that period, was true. Now, four years have passed, 2011 has come. In 2011, you dramatically increased the number of members in the Supreme Court and the Court. So the number of members of the Supreme Court, 250, was raised to 387, and the number of members of the State Council, 95, was raised to 154. We were waiting for it to stop here, it didn't settle, it didn't cut. This time you're redesigning the number of members of the Supreme Court to 516, and the number of members of the Court to 195. My dear friends, this means nothing more than to create an obese court in the world that has no equal. There's another meaning to this: you inject an energy that's been injected into the judiciary with a political image, and it's a job that shouldn't be happening. The statue who holds the scales of judgment is also blindfolded. Why? Because the language, religion, sex, philosophy, religion of those he judges, is bound to treat everyone equally, regardless of their religion. But you open your eyes with open eyes, and raise the number of members of the Supreme Court to 517, and the number of members of the State to 137, in order to use them as soldiers against a certain people. Thus, Turkey is entering the process of a political hormone Supreme Court, a Supreme Court with political hormones, a Supreme Court with political hormones. That won't do you any good. If there is, your struggle with the people you're fighting must be punished in front of the law, according to the principle of individuality and legality of crimes. If you leave here, it means you're setting sail for different fields and horizons. Your destination is the dictatorship.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0224par0687	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0225par0689	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit03spe0224par0690	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit04spe0224par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 19th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. There was not enough decision in the vote of the draft of the bill on Article 655 of the Law Proposal for the Council of Konya MP Faruk Bal and his friends. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. There's enough to decide. We'll continue negotiations with the proposal. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0224par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal No. 655. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Congressmans, there are four motions in the 7th article. The three motions I'm going to now read are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The one in sight...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0226par0009	Mr. President, we're pulling back.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0227par0010	We're shooting too, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0224par0011	You pull it, CHP pulls it. What else? Mr. Halaçoglu, you?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0228par0013	No, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0224par0014	You're not. Since the motions have been drawn, then there are two motions in Article 7. It's the 7th draft of the current 655 rows of the law. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ahmet Aydın Hilmi Bilgin Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mustafa Moroğlu Hüseyin Şahin Ertuğrul Soysal Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, so I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 7th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the Proposal text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0229par0031	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0224par0032	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0230par0033	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0224par0034	Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu will speak on the motion, Kayseri MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0231par0037	Mr. President, in the 7th article, in fact, if we're careful, those who have served five years in the administrative court or who have not graduated from law school by the President and who have not graduated from law school by the President will be placed in law schools by the Higher Education Board in addition to the existing quotas. The procedure and basis for the implementation of this bell are determined together by the Ministry of Justice and the Higher Education Board. Now, as much as the government has to do this, I've been promised that this violation of the Constitution has been placed here, which directly affects and concerns other substances. In fact, there's a statement in the next 11th article: ▪ The presidents are replaced in the second and fourth jokes of Article 14 of Law 2575, in which you reduce the terms of the term "President" to 6, which you reduce to 7, OK, but the meaning of the article behind it is that the third joke of the material has been removed from effect. What does the third joke say in Article 14? Although the members of the United States have a degree in political knowledge, they are unfortunately removing it completely from law-related universities, allowing all agencies to be appointed persons who do not have legal formation. In fact, the 7th and 11th article differ. Now, while you're making it possible for those of you who are in administrative courts to study law on the 7th article to actually eliminate it, you're creating a completely different structure in the prosecution. Therefore, you bear a figure that contradicts the third joke of the 14th article. Now, if you don't take away this third joke of the 14th article, it won't do any good to remove the 7th article. It would be helpful for you to reconsider. So this is where we speak against the Constitution. So I'll tell you this: you'll be able to assign a historian to the State Department from now on, and the historian will take part in the Court. I mean, what's a guy doing out there who doesn't fit the legal norm? How do you explain that? So it's like this: you put someone in medical school who doesn't understand the law, who's going to become the appointment of a social scientist to the surgical department. So there's no logic or reason, there's no legality. Thus, it is only possible if the 11th article is removed together. Since the Constitution also violates the principles of equality, we have asked that the 7th Article be removed due to the violation of the Constitution, but as I said, these appointments must be evaluated very seriously. Why are you removing this clause from the court, which means you're removing the joke with Article 11? I assume you're doing this to give a teacher assigned to the State Department the opportunity to make it to the State Department. So...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0232par0043	Can't he be the new candidate?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0231par0044	No, of course not. I mean, how can you appoint someone who's a teacher who has nothing to do with law? You can't appoint a member of the court.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0232par0045	Anyone who's a member is assigned everywhere.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0231par0046	But you can't appoint him as a member. Now, you're just saying that the administrative courts...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0232par0047	There are people in administrative courts who don't have a law degree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0231par0048	You can assign men from all kinds of majors to administrative courts, but then you say you agree to take it to law schools without a test. Why did you want it removed? Why did you bring it? Because since it's not legal formation, you want it to be here as a person with a legal form. We'll talk about it in Article 11.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0233par0051	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. It's the 7th draft of the current 655 rows of the law. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Mustafa Moroglu (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0234par0058	My dear President, I personally agree with you, and I'd like to submit to the appreciation of the High General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0233par0059	Thank you. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0235par0061	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0236par0062	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit05spe0233par0063	I'm reading the reason: It has been deemed appropriate to remove the matter due to the need for reconsideration of the subject. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In this way, the 7th article has been removed from the commission text in accordance with the agreed motion. We continue to discuss the current clauses of the proposal so as not to cause any confusion. Article numbers will be identified during the writing of the law. We have a new motion, and we need to take a ten-minute break to prepare him.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0233par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 19th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal No. 655. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Congressmans, there are four motions in Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 8th Amendment of the current Law Proposal No. 655. We offer and propose that the "17" clause in the article be corrected as "seven." Faruk Bal Alim Ilk Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Jamalettin Simsek Kemalettin Yilmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Frame 8 to the following article of Law Proposal No. 655. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hilmi Bilgin Ali Ercoshkun Ahmet Tofik Long Oya Eronat Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same. I'll process it together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of Law 655 be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel Erol Dora Ertugrul Kürkçı Hasip Kaplan The signatures of the other motion are: Ali İhsan İkturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Turgut Dibek Ömer Süha Aldan Oğuz Oyan Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0237par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0233par0034	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0238par0035	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0239par0036	Mr. Hasip will speak.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0233par0037	Mr. Hasip Kaplan will speak, Şırnak MP.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0240par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. In this package of judgments, you know, they were trying to protect the interests of the state, of the nation, with a witch hunt during McCarthy, you know. When you add this security package to this, you see a similar application develop. Again, the famous Italian lawyer Beccaria says that while it is known to all people that it is very obvious abuse to accuse people with crimes that are common, governments who have lost their power and legitimacy in many countries of the world often use this method. Look, we've made an offer in connection with these law proposals. What we said: let's take some steps in the matter of having a number of intelligence units, being audited, and having everyone rest. What do we do? When the application is mandatory, prosecutors decide to listen, hand him over to the police, and the police listen to everyone. Let's keep this under control, and let's look for strong reasons for suspicion of criminal activity in the proposal of the law. We made this offer. So we say: "Come, let us save you from rest." And you say: "No, brother, we will listen to you all." Wasn't it you, my brother, who complained about resting on December 17th? Weren't you the one who complained about publicizing phone records? Wasn't the Prime Minister of the period the current President, who said my Kriptoli phone was being tapped? Yeah, we're bidding for you, brother, and you're doing the opposite, and I'm really surprised at you. Look, again, we have an offer on the law. Now, you think that when you're in political power, you get legitimacy when you get out of the trunk. No, in order for you to be legitimate, there are universal principles of law, such as the right to a fair trial, such as an independent court, for example the equality of argument and defense, the equality of weapons, such as the Court of Strasbourg. So, brother, we said to you, your special authority courts and prosecutors... you're co-opted now, you're court-martialed, you're going to bring a security package with a lot of these prosecutors, a lot of them, and even to replace them with thousands of cops, we've made an offer, and we say, look, our reason is that the right to a fair trial compels the equality of weapons. According to the ECHR, the first important requirement for common and broad-ranging rights is the equality of arms among the parties, in other words, a full equality of rights and obligations in front of the court. You will establish equality between the prosecutor and the lawyer, so that there will be a fair trial. Now, does the defendant have the right to be informed in the 6/3-b column of the contract? I do. Does he have the right to know the name? I do. Does he have the right to defend against it? I do. We offered the law, friends, and we said, look, in these special authorities courts, they don't give evidence, they don't give evidence, they don't give CDs, they don't give DVDs, they don't give e-mails, they don't give media, they don't give flash drives, they don't give all the evidence, the lawyers have access to it, they have to do the job. You're saying: "No brother, don't let them get into anything, don't let them look at the file paper." You know, when Mendeles was tried, the lawyers couldn't examine his files in 1960, and that's how one judge said, "That's the force that puts you here." One day, the force that blocked you would want something like this, according to the law you made. We guide you to the right path, and you go astray. History doesn't forgive you here, let me be clear. Our people won't forgive you for this mistake, you're wrong. I'll give you a lot of warning. Good luck with that.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0241par0046	Thank you. The other speaker, Congressman Jesus Gök. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0242par0050	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I stand before you to defend our motion on the 8th article of the framework. First of all, I would like to thank the groups for the withdrawal of the 7th Amendment. Not just any profession, but to be fair, to dominate the equality of opportunity, it's done what needs to be done. Thank you so much, he's come to his senses again, thank you, everyone. However, lawyers' problems, of course, have not only been overcome by the removal of the special arrangement in that administrative court. You all know that Turkey, which signed the Havana Convention, has been holding out on the rights of free movement lawyers regarding green passports, and lawyers are unable to carry out their profession under the Havana Convention. I think the State Department's concerns will have to come from now on. Again, he proposes that the opportunities for judges and prosecutors to acquire weapons are not known to lawyers. But the main thing about the attack is that it's always your defense, it's always the dead, it's always the martyrs, it's the lawyers. It's not possible to give it to lawyers or understand it. The state of public defenders is pathetic. It's not coming up, it's not being talked about. This Assembly has a fault, linked to the previous 7th article. In 2007, Justices and Prosecutors' Law 2802 was held, while friends, remember, the administrative judiciary was given a 20 per cent quota. In Article 8 (2802), the 20 per cent of this quota -- however different the Minister said yesterday -- must be removed completely. Judgement is a different thing: a lawyer, a judge, a prosecutor has to finish law school first. Friends, let me tell you what schools the judges from this quota come from: the working economy, the economies, the open school. At the moment, people who have studied economies, financial economics, economics, business information, finance, marketing, political science, foreign trade, public education are being dominated by the administrative judiciary -- it's really ironic, these people do. You almost gave these people the right to an internship, which is unacceptable. As for the 8th article, friends, look, the numbers have no sense, the numbers actually reveal the simplest truth. Just look at the numbers, 2007 and before, friends, there were 32 apartments in the Supreme Court, 250 members. He remembers well -- at the time the Minister was different, but he wasn't our Minister -- there was a government bill that reduced 250 members to 150, 32 apartments to 20 apartments. The bill actually made sense to itself, why? The exceptions were coming, and the appeal would really be a court of law, which meant France, and it was the right logic. Well, then maybe the tactical error was obstruction, maybe it was a tactical error, but what happened, fellas? The 250th Supreme Court member is now ascending to 387, and now to 515. The 32 Supreme Court offices, scheduled for 20, have risen to 38, now to 46 apartments; that was mathematics, numbers. When you look at the prosecution, it was 13 apartments, 15 apartments, and now 17 apartments. In the administrative court, there were 95 judges and prosecutors in the district office, and you raised 95 to 156, and now you're bringing them up to 195, and we're going to put the establishments into practice. Yes, there's a problem in front of you, you've tried a lot of different formulas to overcome this problem, but no formula has held up, and it won't hold up again. The first formula in your head is to overcome a lack of quantity, which is actually a natural equation. And it seems your new formula is to limit the term of duty in the high judiciary, limit the membership of the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office, set a deadline for a period of time.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0243par0060	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Frame 8 to the following article of Law Proposal No. 655. Ali Ercoshkun (Bolu) and his friends The first verse of Article 8 (d) of Article 2575, dated 8-6/1/1982, was added to the first verse (d) of Article 2575, and the other belles were replaced according to this; the second joke was changed in the form of "yemmit (e.g. e) Chief Secretariat of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0244par0069	My compliments to the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0243par0070	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0245par0071	We'll take it.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0246par0072	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0243par0073	I'm reading the reason: The Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Office of the General Secretary of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors is also expected to be elected as a State Council member. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. The motion, which has just been adopted, has been re-organised on Article 8 of the proposal, and includes the content of the motion of the Konya MP Faruk Bal and his friends. Therefore, I hereby withdraw the motion of Mr. Honey and his friends. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. In Article 9 there are three motions. The two motions I'm going to make now are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı Secrets by Darayya Önder Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Omar Süha Aldan Kırklareli Zonguldak Muğla Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Uçe Mersin Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution. I'll read it and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 9th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text due to violation of the Constitution. Faruk Bal Kemalettin Yilmaz Cemalettin Lightning Mustafa Kalayci Yusuf Halaçoğlu S. Nevzat Don't Fear Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0247par0100	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0243par0101	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0248par0102	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0243par0103	Isparta MP Nevzat Korkmaz will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0249par0106	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. We ask that this clause be removed from the proposal text because of the violation of the Constitution. We believe it contradicts the legal state, the guarantee of justice and the independence of the judiciary in the Constitution. Dear friends, I would like to take this opportunity to clarify yesterday's Justice and Development Party group meeting as to the issues that Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu has addressed to Mr. President. Deputy Chancellor Davutoglu said, "If you have the courage to say that Mr. President Dersim Mutiny has been abused for 3.5 votes, go tell them in Tucson." As the country's Prime Minister, Mr. Davutoglu apparently believed it took courage to speak against Dersim Mutiny and its ringleaders. Unfortunately, it's a landslide comment of mufli politics, and it's a 100% nationalist Party of Action.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0250par0109	Come to the item, to the substance.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0249par0110	I have to ask, is it the result of your cowardice and cowardice to praise the rebels of my class? Is it because you sit at the table with the PKK and the baby killer and make him a negotiator because you're afraid of terrorists and the organization? If you have the guts to say it, tell me it. What's different than saying it in Tunceli? It's childish and, unfortunately, incoherent. Mr. Prime Minister, you don't cross lonely rocks in fear, hiding. It takes courage to rule the state, it requires courage, and when the time comes, it requires giving up the mother, the lover, the court, the position, and the office.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0251par0111	It's all there, all of it.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0249par0112	Of course, since you've risen to your current position in a humble, unsavory elevator...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0252par0113	Where's the elevator? Show some respect! Watch your language, will you?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0249par0114	You don't know that because you were assigned by your father. You're a man who doesn't care about the government, who takes his power out of his tongue, not from what he's doing.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0253par0115	No one brought him anywhere, we chose him.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0249par0116	Mr. Prime Minister, if the expression of different views in your country requires courage, whose weakness is that, whose lack of insight? While I confess that the power of the state, the law, the freedom of expression, I ask: Mr. Davutoglu, what do you do, what do you do?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0254par0117	He's a prime minister.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0255par0118	What the hell are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0249par0119	It's not stealing a finger of honey in everyone's mouth, it's being a statesman, being able to express the truth without being afraid everywhere.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0256par0120	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0249par0121	It's beyond your caliber to invite us to the test of courage.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0256par0122	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0249par0123	For the government, for the nation, for the moon starry flag, we are the ancestors who gave their lives for the flag.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0257par0124	Oh!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0249par0125	We did that yesterday, and we'll do it today if we have to.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0258par0126	Get over it, get over it, get over it...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0249par0127	As we always say in the west of the country, not in the east, but in the east, separately, in the west, in the morning, separately, and in the evening, giving political literature dance samples, but in the west, saying, "Happy is the Turk!"
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0259par0128	Can you go? If you can go...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0249par0129	...We are the masters, the leaders, the Turkish nationalists, who sing in the squares of Isparta, and the squares of Van.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0260par0130	How many times have you been to Hakkari, how many times have you been to Şırnak?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0249par0131	How to be brave in your spare time, Mr. Vice President, let's teach you. There is only one truth for us, and we speak this truth fearlessly in every way, without playing any part of our body. Don't we always cry out to our Ocalan fans that the baby killer is Apoka? Have you ever seen us do a little math like you?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0261par0132	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0249par0133	Your aghas were trying to draw a line within the Islamic borders because they were beyond Sivas. They said, "You can't cross the line."
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0261par0134	Right.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0262par0135	Did you pass?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0249par0136	They expressed the inability to pass on their words to a part of the country they ruled. I hope you'll think about it one more time, apologize in cold blood, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0263par0139	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0264par0140	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0263par0141	Here you are, Mr. Ahmet Aydın.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0264par0142	About our Prime Minister, the speaker, he spoke very back-and-forth. I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0263par0143	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0264par0147	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0265par0148	Why don't you ask him what he said?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0263par0149	If you'll excuse me, I'll be the judge of that. Next time I'll ask you, I'll do whatever you say, okay?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0265par0150	As for us, what did he say, what did he say?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0263par0151	He told me. I heard him.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0265par0152	Yeah, yeah!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0266par0153	What did he say?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0263par0154	I'll ask you from now on.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0267par0155	What's the matter with you guys? As a group of vice presidents, why do we have to promise our group, our Group President, that we're going to be bullied so much that we won't be able to take words from him?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0268par0156	Your Group President is picking on everyone.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0267par0157	I'm sorry we don't have to talk around here like you do.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0268par0158	The person you call the president of the group is always picking on everyone.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0269par0159	Mr. Aydın, please come in.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0267par0161	Dear friends, ritual is business, you don't talk. We don't do nationalism with dry literature like that.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0268par0162	Oh!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0267par0163	You're going to fill in nationalism. Nationalism is about serving its people. The nation appreciates who serves this nation very well, and has shown it in all the choices that have been made so far.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0270par0164	You're undermining nationalism!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0267par0165	Dear friends, if there's a moon-stard flag waving there, I'm sorry, why isn't there a party of the MHP? Why aren't you here? Why aren't you here?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0271par0166	Where's the flag flying? Is Adıyaman waving in the city, is he flying in Diyarbakır?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0267par0167	Isn't that part of 780,000 square kilometers?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0272par0168	We're everywhere, we're everywhere, and we're there on Friday.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0267par0169	In your era, that area was run by extraordinary circumstances, and you put one part of this country under a different legal regime. Were there tortures in Turkey? I did. Were there any unknowns? I did.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0273par0170	Did they take the PKK tribute from you? Did he take tribute from you, PKK?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0267par0171	You've already divided that area in your head. You're the one who's being divisive. We have become the cement of this country, this Turkey.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0273par0173	How much tribute have you given to the PKK so far?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0274par0174	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0267par0175	Turkey, which you divide in your head, unites the AK PARTY, fuses the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0275par0176	You're dividing the country into 36 ethnic identities.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0267par0177	Dear friends, I'm sorry, the cheese boat doesn't work. Where are you, if it's part of Turkey, why aren't you there?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0276par0178	We'll be there Friday, we'll wait.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0277par0179	We're everywhere?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0267par0180	We're everywhere. You say, it doesn't happen with dry literature like this. This nation appreciates what people give to this country, who serve where they serve, and what they serve.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0276par0181	Tell me about the White Palace!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0278par0182	He appreciates the White Palace and the White Palace!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0267par0183	Yes, we're also interested in the Kurdish problem, we're interested in the problems of the Alevi...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0279par0184	You're not sincere, you're not sincere!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0267par0185	...we also deal with people's problems, we deal with the problems of non-Muslims.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0280par0186	Explain the fugitive palace. Explain the runaway palace.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0267par0187	We're managing Turkey with an understanding of the 77 million together.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0280par0188	Eat the orphan's rights and come here and talk like a saint.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0267par0189	Seven to 70, east to west...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0281par0191	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0267par0192	Whatever we say from the north to the south, we'll keep saying it out loud everywhere.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0282par0194	Tell me about the runaway palace!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0283par0195	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0284par0196	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0283par0197	Mr. Group President accused the Nationalist Movement Party and claimed that we'd split it there. So, I want to talk about teasing. Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0285par0199	But he's right, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0286par0200	He's so right!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0287par0201	He's so right! He can't explain the runaway palace, he's trying to be a master and here he is!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0288par0202	Congressmans, please do not interfere in the speech of the speaker. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0289par0205	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0290par0206	The only party to get votes from all over Turkey is the EC PARTY
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0289par0207	Now, friends, I don't know if you have any reason to argue with us here about who's not interrupting what, but right now there is a group in Turkey that declares autonomy in five regions, including Diyarbakır, Silvan, Cizre.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0291par0208	Why don't you come and see?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0289par0209	Now, it's nothing more than an absurd act of separatism when a person who can't intervene, who can't go in there with his own security forces, who has no voice against PKK members who have even been ordered to arrest the police. First of all, if you claim that we exist in those areas, if you claim that we can't go there, then you're confessing your own shame.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0291par0210	You're telling me.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0289par0211	If those areas aren't safe and we can't go, then you haven't made it safe.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0292par0212	But we're leaving.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0293par0214	You go, you go! We were in Cizre last week.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0289par0215	So you can't get away with framing someone else.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0294par0216	Teacher, where are you?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0289par0217	But if you're going there with 5,000 people, 10,000 people from Kayseri, Ankara, and the police, you probably won't be able to see yourself succeeding.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0295par0219	Come, let's go together, come!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0289par0220	But you've succeeded in one thing: the people who really divided the country there, you come out as a government. Because, look, whatever you say...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0295par0221	Come on, let's have you over, come on in.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0296par0222	Come, be our guests, come, come!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0289par0223	You know we always go, but I'll tell you this.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0295par0224	You're not coming, dear! Why don't you come to Diyarbakır?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0289par0225	But you can't go, you say. You see if we can go. Let them go!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0297par0226	When did you leave? When?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0298par0227	Teacher, when did you leave?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0299par0228	Teacher, when did you leave?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0300par0229	No, you're too busy building palaces, not too busy with the condition of the people there. You say he's going to Tunceli? Here, on Friday, our president is in Tucson, where he will make the necessary visits. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0301par0232	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0302par0233	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0303par0234	Mr. Ahmet, you have no right to speak there without announcing the illegal palace.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0301par0235	I don't hear anything, I don't understand anything from Mr. Halaçoglu's speech, and I don't understand any noise from yours now.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0304par0236	Did I not make myself clear, or did you not understand the noise?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0301par0237	Because when the speakers are responding, the MPs in the other group are reacting so loudly that they are not responding because of the bullying here, they are making a meaningful conclusion in terms of their group, and those in the opposition group who are listening to him can't make their own profit. So either there's no end to this, and I'll listen to you, Mr. Ahmet, but from now on, I won't make any promises. Please... I didn't listen to you. Wait, what was that for? Please, Mr. Ahmet, you didn't tell me why.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0305par0240	Mr. President, you're going to the region with 5,000 police officers. He said, he made an unjust accusation.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0306par0241	Was it 10 grand?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0305par0242	You're going to the area with 10,000 police. He called it an unjust accusation and picked on me.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0306par0244	The Minister of the Government is here, let him answer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0307par0245	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0305par0247	Dear friends, wait a minute, relax. First of all, we didn't say that the area was secure, that you couldn't leave because of security. It's the AK PARTY that's making the area safe. (MHP rows of noise) You can't go into the area with your policies. So that's what we knew, we know you didn't go into the area with these policies, but that means you were afraid, you weren't going to the area, so we saw him here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, my friends, you've said a lot of things about this fugitive, this palace, this escaped palace. Look, the Republic of Turkey is a growing, developing, developing country. You can't fit a palace in the honor of this country into your own country, your own president. You don't suit the President of this nation, that's not fair. [[Noises in MHP rows]] ALIM LIGHT. -.. Fugitive... That's not a fugitive, that's a building permit.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0308par0254	Fugitive, fugitive.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0305par0255	The building permit's like a door, I'll send it to you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0308par0256	Fugitive, bring it in, illegal building with everyone's money.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0305par0257	Two: use of structure, residence permit. There's nothing on the loose here. I'm sorry. One other thing...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0308par0258	The normal cost wouldn't be five times the cost.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0305par0259	Look, dear friends, here are the results of the local election: Mardin: CHP 0.9; MHP 0.9; AK PARTI 29.3. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Van: CHP 0.8; MHP 0.7; AK PARTY 41.2.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0309par0264	Why don't you count HDP?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0305par0265	Batman: CHP 0.8; MHP 0.5; AK PARTY 31.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0309par0266	Mr. Ahmet, why don't you count HDP?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0305par0267	Siirt: CHP 0.8; MHP 0.9; AK PARTY 41 per cent. Şanlıurfa: CHP 0.9; MHP 2.4; AK PARTY 61.7. Bitlis: 1.5 CHP; AK PARTY 40.6.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0310par0270	The illegal palace is $1 billion, the plane is $185 million, minimum wage is $850!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0305par0271	Erzurum: 1.6 CHP; 29 MHP; 58.8 AK PARTY. As for Adıyaman, Adıyaman is already 70 percent AK PARTY, where your presence, your property, is not even read. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) You guys make yourselves available.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0310par0273	Ahmet Aydın, the illegal palace is $1 billion, minimum wage is $850, tell me about it!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0305par0274	Why aren't you in that area? Why aren't these people voting for you? Take care of yourself.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0311par0276	Why don't you tell me how much the runaway palace costs?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit06spe0312par0277	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. [[Interferencing between the AK PARTY and the MHP ranks]] Congressmans, please, one moment. Congressmans, since I've been in office in this House... I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit07spe0312par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of the 3 Law Proposals, number 655. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now, on Article 9 of the proposal, the Commission and the government disagreed, and the amendment to the Constitution, Isparta MP S. Nevzat Korkmaz and I submit the motion of his friends to your votes...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit07spe0313par0009	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit07spe0312par0010	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are no decisions. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0312par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of Isparta MP Sulejman Nevzat Korkmaz and his friends' motion on the 9th article of Law Proposal 655 was not enough. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll continue negotiations with the proposal. The commission is here. The government is here. Congressmans, before we discuss the motions, I'd like to tell you something now. As far as I know, in the time I was here, there was a policy decision made by the group's vice presidents, a gentleman's agreement. I also had my friends confirm that the talks that our group presidents had at group meetings in particular were not in question about polemics. I specifically wanted to remind you of that. Of course, your presidents have an important place in all of you, one by one, and you never let them get hurt, but I think it's not right to make political polemics out of them. So far, it's been very good in this law -- we've been talking, we've been talking, we've been talking, we've been talking, we've been talking, we've been talking, we've been talking, we've been talking, we've been talking, we've been talking, we've been talking, we've been talking, we've been talking, we've been talking, And from now on, in the same calm, of course, I would like you to continue by saying what we think and what we desire, by offering our criticism. I hate to break it to you, but I'm here to let all the friends say what they're thinking by staying within the limits of criticism, but there are rules that the Civil Code will bind me to a certain point and bind me to. I'd like to remind you one more time. Now I'm going to read two other motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı Secrets by Darayya Önder Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Ömer Suha Aldan Jesus Gök Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0314par0027	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0312par0028	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0315par0029	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0312par0030	Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0316par0032	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of People's Democratic Party on the 9th Amendment to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Law, and on Article 9 of the Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly. It is envisioned that the 9th Amendment of the Law shall be replaced as ▪ The President's statement, which is included in Article 11 of Law No. 2575 and Article 2 of the Law. First, the concepts of the Council of Presidents and the Council of Presidents must be explained in order to understand the general logic of the arrangements brought to the State. The Council of State Presidents is a 19-member organization consisting of the head of the State, the vice president, the chief prosecutor and all the heads of the department, at the top of its profession. However, the presidential board is a narrow formation of three heads of the office and three members, headed by the Chief Prosecutor. Given the structure of the presidential board, the independence of the State Department and its boards, each one of which is a separate high court, is weakened by the power vested in this board. The presidential board is being used as a threat to members like Damocles' sword. Dear lawmakers, the most important part of this bill we're discussing is that it may be one of the most important rings of a series of studies to change the positions in the judicial mechanism. In this bill, it is possible to see traces of legislation discussed earlier on the high judiciary. In this regard, we can safely say that we have witnessed the implementation of the most appropriate arrangements that have allowed the Constitution and Constitutional Court decisions to be carried out, allowing them to take office in accordance with the law. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this proposal is a bid by the EC PARTI governments to step up staffing in line with the goal of implementing the ruling or party judiciary as soon as possible. This is sometimes, due to its timing, indirectly trying to reduce the five-year professional experience criteria for transitioning from lawyer to prosecutor to judge and prosecutors to three years, as it is in the example of being given to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, creating a perception of staffing between judges and prosecutors. Dear lawmakers, as you may know, a number of laws under which a change in the State's Law and the Law on Administrative Judicial Law has come to the agenda with various judicial packages, and many regulations have been enforced. In particular, several studies have been conducted regarding the functioning of the administrative judiciary, with which the individual's right-seeking mechanisms have been narrowed down. Although the arrangements are generally considered to ease the State's workload, it is clear that some regulations cause individual loss of rights and that these losses will increase further. With the proposal, it is said that if we take a power granted to the Council of Presidents, the Council of Presidents will have the authority to reveal the offices, the boards, and the jobs they will see, and to move them when necessary. Precious lawmakers, the EC PARTY in Turkey, are trying to keep the legislature, the legislature, in its own monopoly, depending on its numerical majority, and are pressuring the legislative process. Clearly, there will be no freedom if lawmaking and law enforcement are in the same body. Freedom cannot be mentioned in the event that judicial authority and the authority to make law are used by the same body. In the case of legislation, walking, and the use of judicial men by the same person or body, as you know, the law is considered to be despotism. We have to remember, and each time we have to draw the bottom in thick lines, that the supply of basic rights and freedoms and the constraint of power are only possible if the actual independence of the judiciary is passed, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0317par0040	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Mr. Ali İhsan Kokturk will be speaking on the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0318par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on the 9th amendment of the proposal. First of all, I salute the High Council. The 9th article of the proposal actually includes a very important regulation that deeply affects judicial independence and the principles of the legal state, which shapes judicial activity of the State in particular. As the speaker has just stated, many powers belonging to the Council of Presidents of the State under Article 9 of the proposal are unfortunately granted to the presidential board. In the 9th article, it is the authority to determine the positions of study judges, but in other articles that continue after Article 9 of the proposal, the powers of the State Department members to determine apartments, the business plan between apartments, and these very important powers, unfortunately, are taken from the Council of Presidents and transferred to the Presidential Board. Again, why is this change being made, expressed by the speaker just now? Is this change in order to restore the Turkish judiciary's reputation, which has been shaken by the European Court of Human Rights, as stated in the general motive of the bill, to reduce the prosecution's workload, to end the cases in a reasonable time, or is the Justice and Development Party's government, as in previous judicial packages, leading to other goals, other goals that do not correspond to the legal state? Dear friends, I'm afraid there's a very clear view of the goal of taking over the judiciary, of taking control of the judiciary, rather than reducing the workload of the judiciary, of reducing the number of cases in the court. Now, dear friends, when we look at the Council of Presidents and the Council of Presidents, the concept of the Council of Presidents has sadly entered the Court's legislation in an extraordinary way, under a law of general authority. In addition to the authority of the State Department to determine the work department of the State Office, which has been adopted in an extraordinary manner, the Council of State has been given broad powers over the essence of judicial activity, such as the determination of the offices for which the Council of Ministers to serve. However, these powers to the Presidential Board were later revoked and transferred to the Council of Presidents, with a decree issued under the rule of law, as it is seen that these powers were not in harmony with the constitutional order. But, dear friends, because of the breach of constitutional order, these powers that were taken from the Council of Presidents and brought back to the Council of Presidents because they did not comply with the principles of the legal state, are, unfortunately, given to the Presidential Board again and again by this arrangement for the second time. Dear friends, the Presidential Board consists of seven members. It appears to be a separate committee from the suspicion that the administration was under control, decided by the Chief Prosecutor's will. Now, with the authority of the 19-member board of you members of the State to determine the apartments to be assigned, how do you relate to the goals and goals and goals you have expressed in this proposal, which are taken from the 19-member board, only seven, three apartment heads, three members, and the chair of the Council of State, and transferred to a board under the influence and control of the administration? So how do you see the connection between the reduction of the workload of this proposal in the court, in the court, and the outcome of cases in a reasonable process? I'd like to ask the Attorney General that question in person. Of course, there is no such goal and no purpose. The goal is to eliminate judicial independence. By taking control of the prosecution, we see clearly and clearly that you intend to use the Presidential Council as a threat to the members of both agencies and above the apartments. This arrangement is clearly unconstitutional, and we demand and demand that it be removed from the draft text. My last word is Ahmet Aydın. Mr. Ahmet Aydın has just said, "Don't you think this palace -- Turkey is developing -- is worthy of the President?" I would also like to tell Mr. Ahmet Aydın that in a country where millions of people are trying to survive under the age of hunger and poverty, over 300,000 teachers are waiting to appoint, over 56 per cent of the workers are training for minimum wage, our young people who left their homes in the morning have now come home with hope of finding a job, how do you see fit to put the state's $1.5 million in a building like this? I'm curious about that myself. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0319par0055	Mr. Kokturk, thank you. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0320par0058	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0319par0059	All those in favor... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0320par0061	Mr. President, we've requested a roll call.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0321par0062	You didn't look this way, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0319par0063	I haven't seen him. I'm so sorry.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0321par0064	You didn't look this way; he was up, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0319par0065	Now, on this item...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0322par0066	Mr. President, you haven't looked once, and you've continued while a Mr. Deputy Director of the Group was standing.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0321par0067	But you didn't look here, Mr. President, you looked that way. Please...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0323par0068	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0324par0069	Now, I've voted.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0325par0070	No, he got up before the vote.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0323par0071	Mr. President, I'm waiting.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0324par0072	Now, I didn't see that, and neither did my friends. Mr. Gök, shall we vote again?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0326par0073	You're not looking here.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0324par0074	They didn't do the warning... do it again?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0326par0075	No, Mr. President, I mean, he got up in front of everyone, Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0324par0076	Mr. Akagun Yilmaz, I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to Mr. Gök.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0327par0077	Mr. President, perhaps you're tired, but I got up with kindness and raised my hand and submitted my request for a roll call. Of course, you didn't pay attention or hear me, but I was up and waiting before my time. So we have a right to an acquish, so I would appreciate...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0324par0078	So, how do we repeat the vote, then?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0327par0079	So that's how it happened, and you said, "I voted."
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0324par0080	I really didn't see it, and the clerks and the clerks didn't tell me that, or why else would I mean it? There's a pile of stuff ahead of us.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0327par0081	Mr. President, then I must ask you, if you're reporting an alibi like this, I'd like to ask you to take the next vote, please take a look at the groups...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0324par0082	Okay, I'll look after you first.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0327par0083	So I beg you to do so, because let's express ourselves.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0324par0084	Thank you very much for your understanding. There are three motions in the 10th article, and the two motions I will now read are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 10 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel The signatures of the other motion are: Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Jesus Gök Ömer Suha Aldan Ali Özgündüz Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, so I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0328par0105	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0324par0106	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0329par0107	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0324par0108	On the motion, Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı, the MP of the Constabulary, will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0330par0111	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 10th Amendment of Law Proposal No. 655. I salute you all. The number of prosecution agencies is raised from 14 to 15, the number of administrative offices is increased from one to two, and the total number of apartments is increased from 15 to 17. The amendments to the structure and functioning of the Supreme Court have been changed over and over again by this proposal of law. Again, a bill of the same nature is expected to be discussed on the agenda of the General Assembly. In our country, the justice system has become a tool for AKP power. The Constitution has been violated, the principle of judicial independence has been ignored, and the rule of law has been put under way by interference with many institutions such as the HSYK, State and Supreme Court. This fundamentally undermines the trust of our citizens in justice, and it undermines our country's reputation in the international arena. To ensure confidence in the judiciary, the AKP must withdraw its power from the judiciary, not mutilate the law any longer. Human confidence in the state, developing their material and spiritual existence, taking advantage of basic rights and freedoms can only be carried out in a legal system of law enforcement and superiority. Can you talk about law safety, the rule of law in a country where judicial decisions are not publicly implemented? Do those who do not exercise judgment have the right to speak of right, law, justice, to defend the rule of law, to speak of democracy? See, as a result of the lawsuits filed by subcontractors on the highways, the judiciary has ruled that he was an employee of the Department of Highways from the time these workers began their work. The Supreme Court has agreed to that decision. Although the judiciary decided they were staffed workers, thousands of subcontractors, who had not been given their rights for four years, again acted in front of the General Directorate of the Highways two days ago. I'm asking the Minister of Justice, why don't you enforce your judgment, where's the rule of law? Isn't that what you do to subcontractors? Why don't you give them their rights? The subcontractors are responsible and must be recruited immediately. Dear MPs, again, there have been many decisions made by the judiciary regarding the cancellation of the sale of 14.76 per cent of Sejdişehir ETI Aluminum Facility, Ceşme Harbor, Kuşadasi Port, SEKA Balıkesir Facility and TEPRASH. I'm just saying because it's in my territory, there are 15 verdicts on aluminum. However, the AKP's government has neither halted the execution nor ratified it, and over the years it has been violated by judicial decisions, laws, the Constitution, and so on, by acting as if nothing had happened. Ankara 16. Due to the failure of judicial decisions on Sejdişehir Eti Aluminum Asş, Ankara has not been implemented. On March 27, 2012, the First Court of Justice sentenced the Prime Minister of the period and five NGO members and the President of the Privatisation Administration to 10,000 lira compensation. Supreme Court 4. It was also approved by the Law Office's decision dated September 24, 2013. Instead of implementing judicial decisions, the AKP's government has gone to law enforcement to cover its unlawfulness and lack of judicial decisions. The provisions made in 2012 and this year have been returned from the Constitutional Court. No government in our country has ever been so reckless and lawless. It is clear that AKP's words of rule of law are only slogans, which are essentially the law of its own elite. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0331par0119	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 10 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Özgündüz (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0332par0128	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0331par0129	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0333par0130	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0331par0131	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to preserve the current arrangement. As a matter of fact, it is clear that increasing the number of offices is not a move towards reducing the workload. Since reducing the workload requires a more structural change, this provision must be removed from the draft text because it poses more danger than reducing the workload and increasing the number of apartments, as well as the danger of the execution orbit. İstanbul MP Ali will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0334par0136	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, the item I'm talking about adds one circle to the prosecution offices, adding one apartment to the administrative office, adding its number of apartments to 17. Now, why is he doing this? Here, sir, I'll leave it aside if the State has such a request, but what's important is to change the view of the State, dear friends, to change the perspective of the judiciary. The President says the other day: "Sir, we have made the contract for Galataport, and the Court has decided to stop the execution. Betrayal! Now, if you approach it from that point of view, it would mean nothing if you did it not at 17 but at 27. Mr. Secretary, why don't you make a statement about this as the president of the HSYK, and why don't you say, Mr. President, how can you accuse the Turkish judiciary of treason? The president's job is to adjust the state's organs, to ensure co-motivation, not to target an organ. Why did the court decide to stop and abort the execution at Galataport? At that time, neither did the High Planning Board of Deputy Prime Minister Abdulatif Sener. Then don't they ask you: did your Deputy Prime Minister also betray your country? Who was it given to? The Israeli Ofer Group. I'm glad it wasn't. I'm glad the D.A. called it off. What's it gonna be? This person would take the money that he had received, and today in his own country, it would be the money of the messenger of the Israeli soldiers who defiled the Masjidi Aksa. I salute those court members, patriots, and I'm glad they canceled. Now, after you accused the people who made such a decision of treason, sir, I did it. I did it. It's all bullshit. Another thing, dear friends, a country without judicial decisions, a country without law, is no longer legitimate. So, again, the Prime Minister of the time, the current President, sir, is my friends about the 169 towers that have broken the skyline of Istanbul, which have broken the skyline of Sultanahmet. I told them to shave it, not shave it, not speak it. Would that happen? I mean, Istanbul is nobody's father's property. Istanbul is not even our city. Istanbul is the city of all mankind. Who's entitled to what, who's entitled to what, that image, that image? I mean, you're wasting Istanbul because someone's going to get a runt and sell apartments for millions of dollars, you're going to waste history, you're going to waste culture. There's no point when the court's decisions aren't carried out. You'll change the way these studies look, friends. In the state of law, the courts control the actions of individuals, organs, executives, administrations only within the law, and everyone obeys it. When it suits you, you'll approve, and when it suits you, you'll accuse him of treason. Not from that point of view. To whom, then, is it true for you? Is that an understanding? Again, a gag order has been imposed on your former ministers, who are on the agenda of Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the four currently suspected ministers, at the request of the President of the Commission. Guys, what are you trying to hide? I mean, sir, your Minister, your Minister, Mr. Mish Malazgirt, is speaking there when he opens school in his hometown -- Hani, Riza Sarraf is flying along with your other ministers -- says that some people always keep the manual open and keep it open after death. So, I did this charity thing. Thankfully, God gave it to me, and our deeds will remain open. It seems now that Riza Sarraf is keeping the workbook open because Reza Sarraf paid for that school. (CHEERING) Now, you don't want this to be known, you're hiding it from the public. No, you guys, let this Congress do its job for the nation, and let the people know what you're doing. With that kind of understanding, with that kind of approach, I'm saying that you'd be a participant in this theft, the crimes of those who are involved in corruption, and I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0335par0143	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0336par0144	We want roll call...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0335par0145	Now, do you want roll call, or is that enough to decide?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0336par0146	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0335par0147	But if you want roll call, then let's do it our way. Let's meet this demand by standing up 20 people at the same time, the Civil Code Article 57/2.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0336par0150	If you say okay, we'll stand up.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0335par0151	Mr. Gök, Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0337par0152	The Civil Charter does not say at the same time.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0335par0153	20 people have to stand up when it's called roll call. Then we'll do this the right way.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0338par0154	Mr. President, he doesn't say ▪ at the same time.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0335par0155	Let's not argue, I've already told you about the Civil Code. You can open it and read it if you want. ...Kökturk, Dibek, Acar, Tanal, Özgündüz, Havutça, Özcan, Cihaner, Kart, Moroğlu, Şeker, Haberal, Aygün... I'll sign everyone up, write everyone who stands up. Tophead, Akar, Silver, Özsüşmiş, Kulkuloğlu, Köse, Bayraktutan, Gök. I'll tell everyone on the shield. For roll call...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0339par0161	Give me ten minutes, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0335par0163	I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. I hurt you. I gave you two minutes, Mr. Akar. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Article 11 contains three motions. Now, I'm going to have two proposals in common, and I'm going to process them together. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 11 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel The signatures of the other motion are: Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Omar Suha Aldan Jesus Gök Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 11th of Law Proposal 655 currently in session. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Cemalettin Lightning Alim Ikım Mustafa Kalaycı Kemalettin Yilmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0340par0193	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0335par0194	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0341par0195	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0335par0196	Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoglu will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0342par0199	Mr. President, these 11th article, which we've just evaluated under the 7th Amendment, is actually contrary to the Constitution. Because the Constitution is against the rule of law, the guarantee of a judge, and the principles of independence and neutrality of the judiciary. First of all, if you want to keep an institution alive, you need to appoint people who are qualified for the functions of that institution. You know, it's been observed that there have been some major mistakes in history. The simplest of all, you all know very well, is the III, which led to the corruption of the New World Order. It has to do with Mehmet's son being taken into the Yeniçeri organization during the circumcision ceremony. Now, you remove a clause, a joke, and you say, "They should have done it in the areas of Political Sciences, Administic Sciences, Economics and Finance, which include the higher education of members who will be assigned to the Offices of State. So you're allowing a law firm to appoint people who have nothing to do with the law. It's pretty obvious what you want to do here. So you're going to allow a relative of the highest authority we've identified to be somehow assigned to different apartments. We know what this is. On the other hand, by giving these powers to the presidential board, when you're saying that we're actually going to fight the parallel structure, you're going to make a decision only by taking part in this board, but what's that going to bring? In fact, it will eliminate the prosecution's credibility. On the other hand, what I've just said is, if you bring people here randomly, from here on out, because of pick-up people or political preferences, you eliminate the State's identity. Anyway, what you've always done is use politics to their legal system and somehow break the law. This is the most important issue that eliminates the survival of a country. I just told you, you were objecting. So your Home Secretary didn't tell you there was no security in the southeast? He did. Now, have you declared autonomy in five different areas? It's been done. Have the moats been dug? It's been dug up. ▪ Have security forces been instructed not to come out in their own uniforms? Granted. Just yesterday, 10 people from Diyarbakır were kidnapped? He's been kidnapped. Are the armed forces collecting tributes? He's packing. Did they set up a trial? They're wolves. Well, in the same way, do they do ID checks? They're doing it. You can't argue otherwise, even the cops are doing ID checks. So, for God's sake, you're saying: "There's security, everything's a rose, go... "If you're brave, then go, and I'll see you before you get all the police together. You can't. In two of the police officers who left Kayseri, five people died, five of our police were killed. It happened the same way from Malatya. How many places did it come from? Why did the cops go all the way over there? Aren't the cops there enough?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0343par0207	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0342par0208	Who are you trying to make fun of? For God's sake, you know perfectly well that there's no security there, but you accept all the pressure you're under with the PKK terror organization because of the election, and then, after that, you'll see them tomorrow, we'll all see them, and you'll all be exposed to the plague. But believe me, today's compromises will cause Turkey a great deal of trouble tomorrow, but it will also blow up in your heads, no doubt about it. Therefore, I will defend my government in such matters. Under the name of the government, you will not be able to do so if you defend them rather than defend them. If there are people who can bring down the flag from a military unit, if they can put it under their feet, you can't say that. Did 49 of our citizens get slaughtered on October 6th, 7th? It's been done. Why couldn't you stop it? Why couldn't you stop 1,113 buildings from being burned down?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0344par0210	They asked Ocalan, Ocalan.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0342par0211	Why couldn't you stop the fire of the 1,177? And after that, you went out, and you begged through your minister, and you did not bring these things up again. As of November 1st. You're doing the same thing today. Whatever compromises you make will be returned to you tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0345par0213	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 11 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: Turgut Dibek and his friends Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0346par0221	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0345par0222	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0347par0223	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0345par0224	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to preserve the current arrangement. Because it is a provision in the bill that is suitable for the weakening of the State Department and its boards and its independence. The breaking of the administration's hegemony over the judiciary is the primary condition of being "the state of law" and the trust in justice, and this bet should prevent the regulation from being legalized. Mr. Turgut Dibek will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0348par0230	Dear friends, I have been promised our motion on the 11th Amendment. I salute you first. In fact, these regulations, Mr. Secretary, what you're saying, you know, because our friends insist that the files are very busy, we need new members. Here, thousands of files are waiting, thousands of files are waiting, lawsuits are growing, and our citizens are victims. The regulations that eliminate their motives, eliminate them, reveal that they are not real. Because if it was, you wouldn't be interested in them anyway, friends. Now, the State's Office -- I told you here last night -- is one of the most important institutions in Turkey, the constitutional institution, the Supreme Court, both of which have a history of 150 years. Playing with the structures of such institutions, changing all their DNA, you know, with their structures, especially in the last three years, four years -- I'll remind you -- you've played them so much that they need new members in file numbers, sir, here, here, in the office. There's no way to explain why, of course, there's something else behind the case. Dear friends, look, this is the President's and the President's Board of Directors, the important institutions within the State. Chief of State, Secretary General, Chairman's Board, Chairman's Board. I'm talking about these boards over the last three years, especially after the referendum, with the HSYK structure that formed, the previous HSYK structure, which is the same thing as the coalition that you're building today, with those people you claim to have been hit, and that's when the presidential board of directors in the district was conducted. What was the point? It was the same as today. So I remember very well that today's President, Mr. Prime Minister, at the time when he was Prime Minister, he was driving us crazy with his words about the State Department. He said, "I remember, the DA is making ideological decisions." He said -- I'm talking about previous dates -- and he said those statements, as the AKP Group did at the opening of the judicial year, as quickly as the matter was removed there. What if this State Department is driving us crazy, sir, you know, if the State Department's decisions aren't the way we want them to be? Let's do this: Let's play with the structure of the prosecutor, with the DNA, and change the structure. In fact, our friends, the people at the Ministry, had done so much work that, exactly, in June 2011, we made the elections, and Congress was on vacation. This August, a 650 was issued by the government under the rule of law. There was a 10th Amendment to that decree. Now, in that article, dear friends, the building in the district office was the Presidential Board. So, in the State's Office, before any changes were made to that Code of Law, all of these missions belonged to the presidential board. So it's already on the presidential board to do the assignments within these apartments, what cases the apartments will handle, where the members of these apartments will go, in case of an emergency, to assign members, including the president, to elsewhere. You got up in August 2011, you got the President's Board. So it was passed by the State of the Law. Why was he taken? That presidential board wasn't the structure you wanted. You see, he wasn't fit to change the court that made the crazy decisions and stuff. The Council of Presidents... oh, we'll take this -- that day the new Council members were elected, the number was increased, from 95 to 156 -- you said we'd deal with it with the new presidential board. The Supreme Court cancelled it. After canceling it, it remained as the Council of Presidents again in 2012, but it was the Council of Presidents. Now, do you know what you're doing today, dear friends? He is coming back to the Presidential Council. So what you don't like is that the president's board of presidents, the board of presidents, is coming back as the President's Board, and all the duties here will be given to this presidency. Now, we already know for what purpose. This is the only way we can control or change the existing structure within the discussion. I've looked at the motions -- I think there's a new motion on Article 13 -- and there's a new motion on the board of administrative court offices. So, dear friends, since there's been the State Department -- I've always said -- such cruelty has never been tortured like this. Look, I'm in it, our friends are in it. You don't understand much of what I'm saying. The presidential board, the board of presidents, the board of administrative prosecutions... that's no way to deal with institutions! Now, Mr. Goodima isn't there. He was here, though. The Minister is there. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Friends, we make laws, norms, but don't mess with the structure of institutions like that. I think this is the last time, and you're going to do it, so you're going to have to go through it, but no more, guys. We already have three semesters of friends, and Mr. Secretary is three, and we don't have any after that, so let's get these three semesters done, so let's get them well remembered when they get out of here.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0349par0241	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The 12th article has three motions, first of all, the motions I'm going to read are the same thing, and I'm going to make them read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 12th amendment of the current law proposal, 655 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel The signatures of the other motion are: Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Attila Kart Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, which I'm going to process first, and I'm going to make it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 12th draft of the current Law Proposal No. 655. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz You summoned Lightning Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Light Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0350par0264	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0349par0265	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0351par0266	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0349par0267	Mr. Alim Ik will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0352par0269	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 12th Amendment of Law Proposal 655, which has been discussed. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Of course, this motion is intended to be removed from the proposal text because the provision is contrary to the Constitution. Because this amendment to the structure of the Governing Body, which is under the 16th Amendment to the existing State of State 2575, constitutes a violation of the rule of law, the state of law, and the independence of the judiciary. There's nothing acceptable about this arrangement that gives the job of the General Assembly to the 7-member presidential board. At a time when the quality of this House's legislation is almost zero, we once again advise it not to make that mistake, and we share with you our view that it will be appropriate to be removed. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm sure what brings this proposal here today, as do the ruling party lawmakers. Because at a time when the work of a commission established to investigate and investigate corruption and bribery operations that have been done in the past, the President of the Commission feels strong enough to impose a gag order on the news of the Republic of Turkey in the first place, in the coming period, what do we do if these files are reopened? Mr. Justice and Development Party deputy has just arrived here, giving nationalist speeches, saying there's no Nationalist Movement Party in certain places, but despite our insistence on defeating the rights of the nation in the fugitive court, he has left without even a sentence talking about it. Look, dear lawmakers, I'm telling you that the President of this country, the Prime Minister, of course, is the most deserving of sitting in the most beautiful places, and we have no objection to that, but you can sit there, with the right to uphold the people's law, without eating the orphans' rights, without eating them. I'll give you an example or two. I share the money in certain jobs that you pay in exchange for the official department prices of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism: the land-digging job, the unit price is 3.10 Turkish dollars/ cubic meters, the money you give the contractor is 11.2 times higher. The low-down dig job, the unit price is 4.55 TL/ cubic meters, 9.5 times the money you're paying the contractor. Hand-to-hand sand, gravelwork, 3.49 TL/ cubic meters, the contractor's money is 19.2 times higher. The intermittent construction of the digs is 15.96 TL/ square meters, 4.5 times the money you're paying the contractor. Tupvenan sand, gravel filling 5.59 TL/ cubic meters, that's 5.2 times the money you're paying the contractor. The flat-level concrete and concrete mold is 19.59 TL/ square meters of price, about 3 times the amount you're paying the contractor. 200 doses of concrete 96.80 cubic metres, 2.3 times the money you gave the contractor; 300 doses of concrete is still 104.98 TL/ cubic metres, 2.3 times the amount given to the contractor. Dear lawmakers, isn't it your duty to answer to those who eat this and pay the average 5 times more? Why are you offended by this? This judgment will judge you one day. Come on, be reasonable, don't support thieves. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0353par0278	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0354par0280	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit08spe0353par0281	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0353par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of Kütahya MP Alim Izim and his friends' motion on the 12th article of Law Proposal No. 655. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. There's a disagreement between the clerks, let's vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll continue negotiations with the proposal. The Commission and the Government are here. Now I'm going to read two other motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 12th amendment of the current law proposal, 655 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: Turgut Dibek and his friends Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0355par0017	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0353par0018	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0356par0019	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0353par0020	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to preserve the current arrangement. Because it is a provision in the bill that is suitable for the weakening of the State Department and its boards and its independence. It is also a provision for developing the monotheistic mindset by placing aside the fundamentals of democratic legitimacy and participation and eliminating the majority. With this bet, the breaking of the government's hegemony over the judiciary is the primary condition of being a state of law, and the trust in justice must be avoided by this bet. Mr. Attila Kart will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0357par0026	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the 12th amendment of the proposed bill. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we see that the final blow to the constitutional regime is being dealt with when this bill, which is being discussed, and the bill that will be discussed by the Interior Commission, is being considered together. At the end of 12 years in our country, at the end of 12 years of AKP power, our constitutional institutions have now lost their function, so that they are now governed by illegal orders and instructions. I'd like to share this with you immediately in concrete and current examples. Look, we've been through a lot of painful things recently. We've been through a lot in Soma, in Ermenek, in Ermenek. He has a legal obligation in the mining legislation, in the matter of mining, in the matter of mining, to give the Department of Mines a mining license, to set up the mining record, to keep the mining inventory, he has the authority, he has the mandate. So, what do we see? You see, while this authority still exists, even though there is no change to that authority, we see that the Prime Minister's office has taken this authority into its own hands with Generalage 2012/15; in regard to mines, forests, meadows; in regard to allocations, licenses, revolutions, so on and so forth. Legal authority on the other side is in the Ministry of Energy and Resources. While this legal authority stands in the Ministry, the Prime Minister serves under a general order and order of law. After that, the Soma catastrophes happen, the Ermenek catastrophes happen, but the Minister of Energy won't open his mouth, although he's in charge and in charge, he's unable to use that authority. You see, we've been through this sort of thing in the process of running for president, my dear friends. There, as of August 15th, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan was elected President of the Constitution, according to the relevant article of the Constitution, his duties as political and general president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are now over, and we have lived with such dramatic events, such dramatic events that Turkey has become ruled by lawless orders and instructions, despite the duties of the 11th President of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, the Supreme Court, the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. In Turkey, valued MPs, these practices are now a government classic. Our basic rights and freedoms are threatened in this sense. Due to the loss of constitutional institutions, the administrative and legality of Turkey's Convention on Human Rights, in terms of Article 13 of the Article 13 of the Convention on Human Rights, the effective application routes are exhausted. Doesn't any of this mean anything to you, precious MPs? Look, I just want to make this a little bit more concrete. Actually, what's the reason for all this, what's the reason for all of this, is to make it a little more concrete. Here's what you see: from the beginning of the Justice and Development Party's rule, from the beginning of 2004, 2005, we're not actually running the state, but we're experiencing the destruction of the fact that it's acted on purpose, with the logic of taking over the state, with its purpose. We'll try to make these results more concrete in the following materials, my dear friends. With these evaluations, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0358par0033	Thank you, Mr. Card. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions in Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Section 13 of Law Proposal 655 in the following manner. Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Harun Karaca "The first joke of Article 13-2575 of the Law has been changed in the form of "301" in its third joke. 1. The Executive Prosecutor's Office Board consists of two original and two backup members appointed by the Presidential Court Office and the heads of each administrative court office for two years; the Tax Prosecutor's Offices Board consists of three major and three additional members assigned by the heads of each tax prosecutor's office for two years. After two years, by the Presidential Board, half of the members of both boards are reassigned for two years, while the other half are replaced by members who have not been assigned to the boards before. The main members of the boards can be assigned two periods in a row at the most. In case the original member is unable to perform his duties temporarily, he attends sub-committee board meetings from the relevant agency, which, in mandatory cases, has been assigned from other agencies. In seven days' time, a new member will be appointed by the Presidential Board to complete the remaining time, if the boards ejaculate in their original or backup memberships." Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 13 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı Secrets by Darayya Önder Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Attila Kart Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution. I'll process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 13th Amendment Proposal in the current 655 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Cemalettin Lightning Mustafa Kalaycı Kemalettin Yılmaz Reşat Right Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0359par0065	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0358par0066	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0360par0067	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0358par0068	Mr. Reşat will speak correctly on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0361par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received a pledge from the High Council on the 13th Amendment of Law Proposal No. 655, which is in session. With this motion, we propose that the clause be removed from the proposal due to violation of the Constitution. This clause of the proposal is being reorganised by the Executive Court of Appeals and the Tax Prosecutor's Offices Council, elected by the Council of State, and the Presidential Board is being activated in this arrangement. This arrangement, with no legal grounds on the executive and tax cases boards, is under political pressure from the boards of administrative and tax cases, as well as from the Council of Presidents, in which political power is judged by the power vested in its belief that it is effective. This arrangement violates the principles of the Constitution's legal state, judicial guarantee, independence and neutrality of the judiciary. As a result, the AKP is doing all sorts of work to make legal changes it wants. Very important changes are also hidden in the inside of the legislation, but the country has very important problems. Unfortunately, however, the AKP covers everything with its own change of agenda. However, the economy is sinking in our country, people are starving, miserable; bonds, checks, credit cards are not paid, unfortunately. He can't produce farmers, he closes the shop, people don't know what to do, he's in debt. Unfortunately, however, the danger of division, which is the most important danger to our country, continues to grow every day. Honourable lawmakers, look, in a 12-year-old AKP administration, the power alone has not been used to national interests, unfortunately, and many issues have become complicated, unresolved. Some problems have crossed mountains and have been placed in an impossible position. We will fight terror, poverty and corruption, especially at the head of the AKP's rule, and we will comfort the people. It was said that it was not so; poverty, unemployment, poverty, corruption, and corruption have taken its toll. Almost 70 percent of society is in a position to survive within the borders of hunger and poverty. Unemployment is based on 13-14 per cent, a major morale disorder in young people has begun to develop psychological depression. Most importantly, the farmer is in a position to produce, the debt swamp is increasing day by day, and the executions are at the door. But the corruption that occurred on December 17th and 25th was unfortunately not enlightened, the former Prime Minister and his children, the bureaucrats, the poor and the poor, were not protected. People at the highest levels of corruption are infected, public conscience is heavily affected, bleeding continues, moral, economic collapse and solutions continue in society. As with all institutions in our country, trust in the judiciary is reduced to 20 to 25 percent. It's probably time for the judge and the government to sit down and think about it. Nothing happens where there's no justice. Justice is the foundation of property. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said, "How true and real it is once again." But in addition to all of this, we see that foreign policy has collapsed, as well as everything else in our country. The Turkish state is experiencing a massive loss of reputation in the AKP's power. There are great problems with all neighbouring states, and no country that is friendly is left, unfortunately. We also live in a period of time when internal and external enemies who want to divide and divide the Turkish state have taken great distances. Terror and separatism, which came to a halt ahead of AKP power in 2002, has, unfortunately, taken huge distances. The terrorist organization and its allies have taken a huge amount of distances they can't imagine, unfortunately, over 12 years. First, the terrorist organization wanted the identity issue accepted, then asked for TV broadcasts in the main language; then there was a request for private school openings, defences, university openings, and they were accepted. New talks are being made every day with traitors from Kandil and İmralı. As the previous talks were hidden from public opinion, it is now quite comfortable, with the rashness, with the solution process, unfortunately the account for the dismantling of the Sevr Agreement, which was signed after World War I. Our country is moving at full speed towards division, global impositions are increasing day by day. The terrorist organisation and its followers have unfortunately taken the distance in the mountains from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey under AKP rule. The situation continues with its oasis. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0362par0079	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 13 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the draft text. Ertugrü Furççı (Mersin) and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: Attila Kart (Conya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0363par0088	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0362par0089	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0364par0090	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0362par0091	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to preserve the current arrangement. Mr. Attila Kart will speak on the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0365par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I have made a commitment to the motion we have made on the 13th Amendment. I salute the General Assembly. My dear friends, in my speech earlier, I said that from the beginning of the rulings of the Justice and Development Party, after 2002, according to the picture that came out in the 2003-2004 years -- I will express it as concrete -- not to rule the state, but to take over the state, in its purpose.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0366par0100	Who had the government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0365par0101	I'll tell you, my dear friend. Listen, if you give me the benefit of the doubt, I'll tell you all about it.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0367par0102	Mr. New, please...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0366par0103	What do you mean, take over the government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0367par0104	Mr. New, please, don't interfere with the speaker.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0368par0105	Look what political power has done. In the beginning, he entered coalitions, coalitions with internal and external dynamics. What did he do on one side? In order to provide support for European Union relations, to create confidence, the Prime Minister has carried out human Rights Advisory Council and so on. The Human Rights Advisory Board has prepared a report, two reports, or rather, I would like to remind you that there are very serious public debates about two professors who are preparing a report on seven-page minority rights and cultural rights, and that this is becoming a Hamasete, demagogy and lynching campaign. But, by the way, what happened? The 81-page human rights report was never discussed. Would you care to hear what the 81-page report said, my dear friends? Look, I'm talking about October 2004. He said in that 81-page report, I read the exact same report: "You will not even touch the comma of the Bills, when the bill of law has been passed by opposition lawmakers and the motions have been rejected with prejudices and determination, when the Prime Minister's legislation has been discussed. "The Turkish Penal Code, which is an important part of the European Union process, is prepared as a panic legislation by the Prime Minister, who clearly interferes with the Parliament's mandate and is guiding it, the police raid, the questioning of police-government-mafiya relations, the increase in torture events, the weakness and inconsistency of the fight against corruption.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0369par0106	What year is that from?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0368par0107	...it is expressed that the constitutional regime has returned to the Prime Minister's system.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0369par0108	What year is that from? It must have been from before 2012.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0368par0109	Look, my dear friends, the debate has begun, depending on this slip, whether or not this board is wanted to be removed. There were motions made by us and Adana MP Ziya Yer Gök, who said there was no such work. Three months later, four months later, that board was removed. What's done? This time in 2010, an institution was established under the name Human Rights Foundation, but it was directly composed of government agents, government officials.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0369par0110	What the hell is a government agent? What a shame.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0368par0111	In fact, the Justice and Development Party's 2014 photo, the Human Rights Advisory Council, in 2004, presented its understanding of governance with a superior insight and analysis ten years ago. When valued lawmakers are evaluated as political science, we know that the Justice and Development Party actually defines him as democratic conservative. And you all embrace that identity. I agree with those opinions, and my participation is one thing, but what is it? I respect every ideological view, as long as it's consistent, in terms of political science. It's also the need for our understanding of democracy. But what do we see? We see that the Justice and Development Party, which defines itself with this identity, has made all kinds of Machiavellist methods a rule for personal, political and economic gain, and also, politically speaking, has an anarchist understanding.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0370par0114	None of your business. It's none of your business.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0368par0115	It's really, really, political science that needs to be analyzed, in this sense, political scientists...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0371par0117	Thank you, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0368par0118	...a great experiment for which the management is revealed, the staff.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0372par0119	We decide what we do and how we do it.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0368par0120	Of course, I see your civil courage to discuss these things, to discuss them, that you have no responsibility to face them. We'll keep talking about this, my dear friends.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0372par0121	That's bullshit. What political science.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0368par0122	I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0373par0124	I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Section 13 of Law Proposal 655 in the following manner. Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends "The first joke of Article 13-2575 of the Law has been changed in the form of "301" in its third joke. 1. The Executive Prosecutor's Office Board consists of two original and two backup members appointed by the Presidential Court Office and the heads of each administrative court office for two years; the Tax Prosecutor's Offices Board consists of three major and three additional members assigned by the heads of each tax prosecutor's office for two years. After two years, by the Presidential Board, half of the members of both boards are reassigned for two years, while the other half are replaced by members who have not been assigned to the boards before. The main members of the boards can be assigned two periods in a row at the most. In case the original member is unable to perform his duties temporarily, he attends sub-committee board meetings from the relevant agency, which, in mandatory cases, has been assigned from other agencies. In seven days' time, a new member will be appointed by the Presidential Board to complete the remaining time, if the boards ejaculate in their original or backup memberships." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0374par0132	It's in the discretion of the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0373par0133	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0375par0134	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0373par0135	Amasian MP Naci Bostancı will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0376par0137	Mr. President, dear friends, the opposition, of course, will criticize us. The only element of opposition in politics is the declaration. He gives power, acts, and the opposition criticizes what power has done with its language. All the reviews are on our heads. AK PARTY is a rational party, which results from criticism. We've expanded, grown, represented more segments by bringing the minds of others into our own mind. And that will be our line from now on, of course, but of course the line between criticism and insult has always been the subject of discussion here in the past, and it's very important to pay attention to it. Now, let's gather the words of lawlessness, violation of the Constitution, constantly using law for its own political purposes, and so on, let's put it under criticism. But I'd also like to point out that when it comes to law, my law is good, your law is bad. I also see an accent in the form of an accent. For example, a commission has just been issued by the President of the Commission regarding these four ministers. Since this morning, friends have respected the law when they evaluate, but somehow they don't show the same respect for this court decision. So what's legal and what's not, what's legal and what's not, what's not? And that's the political understanding behind it, my law, your law. Lenin has a right to war, an unjust war, you know. Some people justify wars, some people get wrong. So is violence. So I'd like to point out some kind of political-based double standard understanding of whether or not to rule out those who fit your own political understanding, that's one. Second: Mr. Attila has just discussed political science here. In fact, both Machiavelli and we have been wronged, and he has been wronged by the anarchists and by the way, Mr. Attila. Look, Machiavelli, this Machiavellistic understanding called arism has not advocated all kinds of regimes. He claimed under certain circumstances that all means are valid. I mean, Machiavelli's a really big guy. You have to read what you're saying right and right. And if there's going to be a conclusion today, it's better to see what he's saying and what he's saying. The EC PARTY, however, is not in line with what Machiavelli said in his own opinion, that it is necessary under those special circumstances. Machiavelli sees his own politics above all else because he represents a morality that is not in other people in a land that has fallen into turmoil, is bankrupt, has gone bankrupt, has gone into internal turmoil, and he says, "Any way to achieve the goal is fair." He wouldn't say that about a society where democracy is a republic. On the contrary, it accentuates nomomos, just as we today emphasised the nomos. Let me put that down as a footnote. So when you bring that kind of data from history, please, it's a good idea not to be unjust to history but not to be unfair to today's politics.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0377par0140	Sir, can you tell me what's legal and what's legitimate?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0376par0141	As for the matter of anarchy, anarchy doesn't really work that well in public, and I'm very sorry. I mean, of course, I don't intend to sit here and teach political science. I also think that Mr. Attila's intention is an inspiration, and I think it's a reference, and, of course, that kind of work can be done in politics. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0378par0144	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0379par0145	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0378par0146	Mr. Card, I'm listening.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0379par0147	Mr. Vice President of the Group, in a very kind language, has offended me, and I would like to respond in that way.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0378par0148	What did he say to you? Now, Mr. Card, I don't think you should...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0379par0149	In polite language, I express it.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0378par0150	Look, Mr. Card, here's the summation of his entire speech.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0380par0151	Normal opinion, explanation, no more teasing?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0379par0152	No, there, of course, with a kind tongue while he's doing that evaluation...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0378par0153	Look, please...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0379par0154	In a kind way, I did not have enough knowledge of the concepts of quantitativeism, machiavelism.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0378par0155	He didn't say anything. He just told me what Machiavellism is. Now, let's not discuss Machiavellism here. He didn't tease you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0379par0156	I need to explain these things.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0378par0157	Mr. Card...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0381par0158	He claimed he had enough information, Mr. President, on record.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0378par0159	Mr. Elitaş, if you'll excuse me, I'm talking to Mr. Kart.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0381par0160	He's got enough information. I'm telling you, it's on the record.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0378par0161	He did not abuse you in accordance with the command of the Civil Code. He only told you, as you said, what he understood about machiavelism using a very kind language.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0382par0162	There he expressed that I misinterpreted Machiavellism, that I didn't understand anarchy, that I couldn't explain it. I can't...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0383par0163	Sir, let's let Mr. Attila answer kindly in a minute.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0382par0164	I'd like to answer that with kindness, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0384par0165	Well, I'm counting on your kindness. Here you go. Let's not cause a new argument. Good, we're discussing philosophy in the House.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0382par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I, first of all, really appreciate the language of Mr. Bostanci. From time to time, I say that academic style -- in a nail -- Although he used it to get to the stage, I would like to express immediately that he is in a very careful position on the platform today. Now, look... of course, I respect my teacher's identity as a scientist. Of course, he has much deeper knowledge of machiavelism, about anarchy, about doing scientific analysis than I do. I have no such claim. I can't compete with my teacher on that. But what is it? I say, humbly, as a lawyer, as a person from the heart of life, from the heart of practice: my understanding of machiavelism, anarchistism, politics, not being consistent, not being honest. So...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0385par0173	It's not, it's not!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0382par0174	These are, of course, the academic dimension -- Mr. Metiner, I know you have a very profound knowledge -- we can also argue, but in politics, in politics, in politics -- that's what this is in return for, and that's what it's perceived by the public, by the public. So, if you get up in the 2009 years, then in the Silivri process, if you're turning our legal system over the example of Haberal, and you're going back two years later, if you're bringing up that kind of application for administrative investigations in the security package once again, it's called Maciavellism in political science, in public, in all sorts of ways to achieve its personal and political purpose, it's called anarchy, it's called destabilisation. That's the perception of it, my dear friends. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0386par0177	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. [[Smiles from CHP rows]] I've seen it, it's a bit of a mess, but it happens to everybody.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0387par0184	The vote was reversed, Mr. President, we only agreed to the three of us, and the others refused.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0386par0186	Yes, in accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0388par0187	Mr. President, it's been rejected.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0389par0188	Mr. President, he's been denied, he hasn't raised his hand, my friends.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0386par0189	They lifted it up, I saw it, and even Miss Dilek lifted it up,
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0390par0190	Against the vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0389par0191	Okay? No, most of them didn't.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0386par0192	Even Dilek Haným voted, I saw it.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0389par0193	No, most of them didn't.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0386par0194	Yes, there are three motions in Article 14: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the proposed law proposal 655 rows be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı Secrets by Darayya Önder Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Gürkut Acar Ali Riza Özturk Attila Kart Omar Suha Aldan Ali İhsan İkturk Tanju Özcan Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök These motions I read were of the same nature. Now, there's an anti-constitutional motion, so I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 14th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0391par0217	There is no violation of the meaning of the Constitution, sir, we do not agree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0386par0218	You always surprise us, Mr. Goody. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0392par0220	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0386par0221	Who's going to talk about the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0393par0222	Mr. President, AKP's motion has just been rejected. I'm gonna go get the transcripts now.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0386par0223	We took it, we took it.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0393par0224	We agreed, the AKP rejected its proposal.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0386par0225	Everyone agreed. Mr. Halaçoglu, who will speak?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0394par0227	You did, Lightning.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0386par0228	On the motion, Mr. Cemasettin Lightning will speak, Samsun MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0395par0231	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Nationalist Movement Party on Article 14 of the Law Proposal on the amendment to the amendment of the Laws and Laws Act No. 655, under the Law of Justices and Prosecutors. On this occasion, I salute you all again. Dear lawmakers, as I have highlighted in my previous talks, this is one of the articles the AKP has brought, not according to the country's needs, but for its needs. In our view, there is also a breach of the Constitution. The National Movement Party has requested that this clause be removed from the proposal text because it is contrary to the Constitution. No country in the world has a 196-member court. The AKP is trying to bring the State under its own sovereignty by increasing the number of apartments in the State. With this clause, it is clear that the AKP is seeking to provide a majority in its favor in the Court. With this clause, the AKP wants to take over the State Department. The AKP today uses large staffing in the public, private sector by means of pool businessmen, and also by providing profit to those who are close to it, by interfering with the media, by suppressing media, by suppressing the media, by using this unfair, law enforcement and the law controlled by law enforcement. To be able to walk this path, Turkey wants to spend its time bringing laws to the Grand National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we've said it over and over again. As long as these injustices continue, we will continue to express them. Come back this way. This attitude is not in the interest of our country or yours in the future. Come, let's deal with other things in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that are more useful for our people and country, more useful for our country, more important for the development of our country, for the welfare of our nation. Let's investigate all irregularities in a clear and transparent way, especially the 17-25 December corruption and bribery operation, instead of intercepting them, let's open the way for them. It's the duty of those who run our country in the first place. Let us together rid our country of the image of this third world country, and restore our country to the world of dignity, obedience, and a place of trust in its word. Let's not deceive our people and each other; the image of our country is going back in every way. Let's give this country the credit it deserves. Today, in a part of our country, our government has no dominion. The security of our security forces here, our citizens' lives and property is at stake, and control is in the hands of a terrorist organization. He threatens our government every day. This is a coup d'état with confidence in state authority and government. Our government must ensure our unity and unity, the safety of all our citizens within our borders. We're always saying here, we're going to say this once again: a poor citizen living under the hunger line, on the other hand, who has become unjustly rich and who can't explain the source of it, who has private planes living in runaway palaces. Look, we all need to eliminate this image for the sake of our country's dignity and benefit. This is a picture that does not suit Turkey. Everyone knows that this white palace was made special for Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Mr. President, if he hadn't been elected, it would have been the Prime Minister's residence today, and you all know it. I mean, it's a private place. There's no explanation for it. Let's change this view of our country against the world together, move our country's democracy further. For our country, it is not only us opposition MPs who say this, but also Mr. Ali Babacan, a member of the government from time to time. Dear MPs, as a result, let's discuss the laws that our country and our nation need in Congress, and move our country forward in every way. Otherwise, it is not in anyone's interest to make laws by saying, "How do we get some constitutional institutions of the state to cover up bribes and corruption in the first place on December 17th-25th?" Just a few minutes ago, Mr Ahmet Aydın, deputy leader of the AKP Group, said: "When we came to power in the southeast, there was a state of emergency, and we took this extraordinary state and normalized it. The government's ability to ensure the safety of our people's lives and property... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to maintain law enforcement there. All of this is gone, and now it's been delivered to a terrorist organization, and you're saying there's no state of emergency there. What kind of state of emergency is that? I don't understand it, and if anyone understands it, you can explain it. On this occasion, I'd like to pay my respects to all of you again.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0396par0243	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0397par0245	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0396par0246	Teacher, it's okay.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0398par0247	But, Mr. President, you always turn your face that way.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0396par0248	Look, I'm very insistent about this. Those who agreed, I looked, and my teacher didn't raise his hand.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0398par0249	Twice, it happened to Levent Bey, and now it's happened to us.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0396par0250	Please, Mr. Faruk, even Levent Bey and Mr. Halaçoglu raised their hand at the same time, I saw this too. Please, don't blame people so much. YUSUF HALLOWER (Kayseri). -.. Yes, Mr. President. Mr. President. -.. I'm having them read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the proposed law proposal 655 rows be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı Secrets by Darayya Önder Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Gürkut Acar Ali Riza Özturk Attila Kart Omar Suha Aldan Ali İhsan İkturk Tanju Özcan Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0399par0267	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0396par0268	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0400par0269	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0396par0270	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to preserve the current arrangement. Because it is a provision in the bill that is suitable for the weakening of the State Department and its boards and its independence. The breaking of the administration's hegemony over the judiciary is the primary condition of being "the state of law" and the trust in justice, and this bet should prevent the regulation from being legalized. Tanju Özcan will speak on the motion, Mr. Bolu MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0401par0276	Mr. President, we have our reasons for the 14th Amendment. Here you want to hand it over and hand over power in a sense by replacing the President's Board of Ministers. We have stated that this is in violation of the Constitution's Article 2 of the Constitution, and we believe that it should be removed from the bill. Mr. Secretary, while you're here, I'd like to make another point. Now, prior to the 2010 referendum, our friends have repeatedly listed criticisms in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey over the lack of this text. We remember saying that during that 2010 referendum in Anatolia: "Look, if this HSYK arrangement becomes a Constitutional clause, the judiciary will become political, judges and prosecutors will become political, they will gain political identity." I suppose you remember that. Now, what happened in the last HSYK election? You know, your government's list may have just won the election. But, Minister, I don't know if you're aware that today, everyone knows which judge and prosecutor have what political opinion, what world view. Everyone in his community knows, the clerks know, the citizens know, the lawyers know.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0402par0278	Mr. President, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0401par0279	Now, fellas, is that nice?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0403par0280	I'd like you to speak to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0401par0281	Is it nice? Now everyone knows every judge, every prosecutor's political opinion, the world view. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, let me tell you something sincere. When I was a lawyer...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0404par0284	It wasn't known before?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0401par0285	...I didn't know the political opinion of a very important part of the judge prosecutors who served in the bolu, and I mean it sincerely.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0405par0286	Doesn't that friend know?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0401par0287	I didn't know him as a man in politics. But today I know the political views of all the judges in Bolu, and in Düzce.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0405par0288	Doesn't that friend know?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0401par0289	Mr. Korkmaz, if you don't know, the judge in Düzce...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0405par0290	I know, I know.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0401par0291	...the way the prosecutors think, the way they think, it's because you had nothing to do with it.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0405par0292	I do. Doesn't that friend know?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0401par0293	Look, guys, it's not cool.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0405par0294	I know all about it.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0401par0295	We warned that when a citizen, a judge, confronts a prosecutor, the judge, the prosecutor, should not hesitate, not according to the political opinion of a citizen, but also by the political opinion of the judge or prosecutor. The judge has to see if he's right or not. The criminal judge should see if he's guilty or not. But now, if this is close to my political opinion with a citizen's criminal judge, or in another citizen's legal case, this judge shares a different political opinion with me, does it have a negative impact on my case? This is really going to cause a serious legal problem. Mr. Secretary, now that you've made a habit of taking over a board, you're increasing the number of members of that board. Is it true? That's what we do here, you do it to get it, but it doesn't always work.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0406par0297	Please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0407par0298	What's possession?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0401par0299	Look, the number of members in the Constitutional Court has increased, hasn't it, Mr. Metiner? He went from 11 to 17. So what happened? What just happened? You were going to make an election law, you couldn't get it out, you couldn't get it out.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0407par0300	For God's sake! It's like we're an enemy army, trying to take over.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0401par0301	That Supreme Court is a very important law that you're trying to make a so-called ally by increasing your number, and if we do, where will it go?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0408par0302	So he wasn't an ally.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0407par0303	That parallel structure will be liquidated here.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0401par0304	Yeah, forget the parallel structure.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0408par0305	So your dissertation isn't correct.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0409par0306	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0401par0307	Guys, that means it's not happening. By just increasing the number of members of a board, you can't always support yourself on that board, you can't. Sometimes when you go hunting, you hunt. That's what you fell for in the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0410par0308	We're going to purge that parallel structure you're hiding behind.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0401par0309	Today, you seem to have won the number of members in the Supreme Court and the Court, increasing the number of apartments in the short term, but in the long run, I think it might be able to get around your feet. And, Mr. Secretary, we've talked to our friend, the deputy in Bolu, and we still haven't figured out this Bolu Courthouse thing.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0411par0311	Mr. Özcan, please take a look at the General Assembly and address them.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0401par0312	You've closed down the districts, you've connected them to the center, but we have a small courthouse. I invite you to the Bolu Courthouse, come and have a look, I'm sure your conscience will hurt. Maybe you can speed up the process. I'm asking you to do that, too. In other materials, hopefully, I'll get a chance to convey my thoughts on different matters.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0412par0315	My dear Tanju, the parallel structure will go away, don't bother!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0413par0316	I submit the motions to your votes...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0414par0317	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit09spe0413par0318	You want the number of decisions enough? Okay. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0413par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the tenth session of the 19th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There was not enough decision in the vote of the two proposals, which envisioned the removal of item number 655 from the proposal text on Article 14 of the Law Proposal. Now, I'm going to put the motions back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. We'll continue negotiations with the proposal. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now, I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in the 15th article. Now, the two motions I'm going to read are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 15th article of the current law proposal, 655 rows, be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel The signatures of the other motion are: Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ömer Süha Aldan Zonguldak Kırları Muğla Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Ali Riza Özturk Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 15th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Cemalettin Lightning Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0415par0030	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0413par0031	The government...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0416par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0413par0033	Mr Kemalettin Yilmaz will speak on the motion, MP Afyonkarahisar. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0417par0036	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding the Law on Justices and Prosecutors Number 655, and the Law on Amendments in Article 15 of the Law Order. I hereby salute your high council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, why is there a law? Why are there constitutional and universal rules and principles such as legal stability, legal credibility, legal predictability? What's the separation of forces for? While maintaining the order of the judiciary, maintaining public order, being a deterrent of crime, being fair and being the same to everyone, the AKP's proposals and proposals offered under the Turkish Grand National Assembly in recent years, are entirely conjunctural, rather than a requirement. Starting with the improvement of the rights of our judges and prosecutors, this proposal, along with other legal proposals, has turned into a 52-point bag of law. The rights of our judges and prosecutors have been considered, and many issues have been collected. So we're dealing with AKP's classic lawmaking technique. It's all conjunctural, personal, weekly, monthly, annual changes. This attitude does not suit the legal state, nor does our Parliament lose confidence every day. The government, not to meet the needs and demands of society and law, will respond to its own daily and short-term needs, and often by bypassing the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it has made it a rule of law to enact laws under the law. For 12 years, the AKP has been seeking to establish a lasting judiciary, in line with the execution, depending on the vast majority of kahir in Parliament. By disregarding the understanding of the state of law and the principle of separation of forces, he has practically brought the work to fruition by issuing a law on every issue that is a problem for him. This does not really suit the great Parliament. The number of agencies and members in the Court and the Court has been increased, as well as the organisation of these two courts is severely altered, due to the speed of the trial and the reduction of the workload. Thus, it is clear and clear that he intends to restructure the judiciary, which he can gain in favour of the government in the Supreme Court and the Court. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is certainly not tomorrow of our country, the law and the public. In these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0418par0041	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 15th article of the current law proposal, 655 rows, be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0419par0050	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0418par0051	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0420par0052	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0418par0053	Zonguldak MP Ali İhsan İkturk will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0421par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, once again, I salute you. I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the motion on the 15th article of Proposition 655. Dear lawmakers, according to the second clause of the Council of State's 27th Amendment, if there is no other ruling in the special laws, the office of the Presidents shall be appointed under the basis of the matter. The 15th article of this proposal we have discussed this evening, and the presidential council shall be given the authority to determine the working part of the case departments that are recognised to the Council of Presidents. However, valuable lawmakers, as we have just stated, the business department between the agencies is a judicial activity that directly concerns the independence of the State, the independence of the judiciary. It has absolutely no place in the state of law within the rule of a judicial action that directly concerns the independence of the court, which has entered into the Court's legislation, but has been later seen to our legal laws, but has been compromised, giving the state's independence to an administrative board of more limited members, such as the Presidential Council, which has no place in a democratic state. Dear lawmakers, the change in this clause does not only present this challenge because according to Article 27 of Article 8, the work of one of the houses during the year has increased beyond normal work, and if there is a business imbalance among apartments, some work may be given by the Council of Presidents at the beginning of the calendar year. Now, this authority, which is included in Article 27 of Article 8, is handed over to the presidential board with this proposal on Article 15 tonight. So the presidential board will be able to remove a case file from one apartment and give it to another apartment for other abstract reasons, whether there's an imbalance in the number of case files between the agencies. Dear friends, one of the basic norms of the state of law is the principle of natural judgment, as we all know. The other principle is the principle of predictability, the principle of legal security, which should also be in the state of law. Now, eliminating the natural judge principle, a universal rule of law on which the conflict would be resolved before the birth of a conflict, the transfer of a case file by the Presidential Council to an apartment other than an apartment, the trial, the trial, the trial, the trial, and the outcome of power, the execution, and the goal of the Sair forces. Now, would it be possible to accept such an arrangement within the state of law, dear friends? The reason for the proposal is that we aim to eliminate the negative appearance of the right to a fair trial in the eyes of the European Court of Human Rights. Now, isn't the basis of a fair trial a judgment in accordance with the principle of natural justice? Now, when you remove the natural judge's principle and transfer this file to a court that can produce any conclusion after the birth of this conflict, will it increase the dignity of Turkey's Turkish judiciary, dear friends, in the European Court of Human Rights or in other legal circles? Now, is it possible, my friends, that this offer you've made to fit in with the grounds you've made in this proposal? So please, I'd like to address your conscience and your mind, your knowledge of the law from here. So such regulations do not give Turkey anything, nor does the Justice and Development Party have anything to gain from its power; they only take the Turkish judiciary to a worse point than it already is and lower its dignity in international law circles. In addition, I'd like to say something to our Minister of Justice. In one of the following arrangements, you know, there's a rise in salaries; we increase judge salaries, prosecutor's salaries. Although this was not elegant after the HSYK elections -- such as a carrot sample for judges -- was brought to the Parliamentary General Assembly to reduce the dignity of judges, we said we found the increase in salary positive. However, judicial activity is one thing, Mr. Minister, and we've said that in the Commission. With the bailiff, with the editor, sir, with the 4/B, with the 4/C, with the public defender, the judicial activity is one. That's why, when we said that these pay hikes were to be made to all judicial employees, you said that the budget didn't allow it, that it wasn't enough.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0422par0066	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0421par0067	Now, I'm telling you, on my conscience, do you feel the conscientious responsibility, or do you feel, of having your own judicial employees pay below the age of hunger, when you're transferring money like $1.5 quadrillion into illegal palaces? Thank you, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0422par0070	Thank you, too. The change was intended to preserve the current arrangement. Because it is a provision in the bill that is suitable for the weakening of the State Department and its boards and its independence. The breaking of the administration's hegemony over the judiciary is the primary condition of being "the state of law" and the trust in justice, and this bet should prevent the regulation from being legalized. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in the 16th article. The two motions I'm going to make now are the same. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose the removal of the 16th amendment from the draft text of the current law proposal 655 rows. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı Secrets by Darayya Önder Erol Dora The authors of the other motion in the same manner: Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Attila Kart Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Now, the motion I'm going to make to read is a motion against the Constitution. I'll process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 16th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Kemalettin Yılmaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0423par0101	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0422par0102	Mr Kemalettin Yilmaz will speak on the motion, MP Afyonkarahisar.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0424par0104	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to Justices and Prosecutors Act 655, and to the motion of the National Party of Action in Article 16 of the Law Proposal for Amendments to certain Laws and Laws. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation again. According to this clause of the proposal, 17. The apartment is assigned. Let me be clear, this is an effort to take over the judiciary, to dominate the judiciary. Building a new apartment in the court to take over the majority, increasing the number of members is officially absurd. It's not right to play with judgment so much. Thanks to you, the court has lost a serious public reputation. Look at the judgment and even look at yourselves that you will try to preserve the reputation of the Imran. Dear lawmakers, what country in the world is there such a large court of inquiry? With that number, believe me, a world record is about to break. I wish we could set world records on forward democracy, human rights and freedoms, national income per capita, justice, health, education, industry, agriculture. Dear lawmakers, we, the National Movement Party, are in favor of improving the rights of our judges and prosecutors. This improvement is also necessary to reflect on their retirement. It's been neglected here. On the other hand, other justice workers - execution guards, clerks, various managers, bailiffs, sociologists, psychologists, doctors - should also make improvements to the rights of the staff. There is no such thing as an offer. A serious failure and a serious injustice to the institution. On the other hand, we need to make arrangements for notaries, which are almost a sweetener of this proposal, and we want to express that we have found enough. The Justice and Development Party aims to take a serious stand and take over the judiciary with this law proposal. Our judges and prosecutors' rights to autonomy are also used to change notaries. The principles of the state of law, the independence of the judiciary, the separation of forces are unfortunately a need to be put underfoot. One day, those who play with the law so much, and those who make the law so political will need law. In these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0425par0114	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose the removal of the 16th amendment from the draft text of the current law proposal 655 rows. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends The authors of the other motion in the same manner: Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0426par0125	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0425par0126	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to preserve the current arrangement. As a matter of fact, it is clear that increasing the number of offices is not a move towards reducing the workload. Since reducing the workload requires a more structural change and increased number of apartments should be removed from the provision because of the danger that Danishtay will enter the orbit of execution rather than reduce the workload. Mr. Gürkut Acar will speak on the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0427par0132	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 16 of Law Proposal 655. I salute you all. My dear friends, this is the 16th article -- as our fellow speaker earlier described -- a clause related to Article 41 of the State's Law, the administrative discrepancies and tasks related to administrative work are found in the First Department and Executive Affairs Board, he says. What are we doing with this? In Article 41 of Law 2575, we have changed the first circle and the first and the 17th apartments in the form of the first and the 17th apartments. We're authorizing the apartment. Now, I'll take the 15 offices of the State to 17, and I'll take the privilege of public service conditions and contracts 17. Once you've transferred to the circle, that's what you're doing -- hydropower plants (HES), wind plants, ports, Galataports, Haydarpaşa Station, you can loot them all, and you can loot all the public lands, coasts, and all the public services on the coasts, and you can transfer them to your allies. Because now you've got an apartment to send them to, you're creating a light ball circle, you're building yourself, a circle again, and all these cases are going to go to that apartment, and it's going to destroy you, my dear friends. Don't think that we've achieved these things, we've achieved great success, and tomorrow they'll come to us as points. You'll see, they'll destroy you, and no corruption will last forever, my dear friends. Look, you've made it so that you're now eradicating the concept of public benefit in the management law of Turkey, there's no public interest, there's no advocacy. All the areas downtown are being looted. As much military land as there is money in the city center, a runt, an increase in numbers, if there is a public place, it's already been looted in large quantities through TOKI. Now, you're telling us, my dear friends, that there's a lot of work here, and that's why we're increasing the number of members of the Supreme Court and the Court. Look, my dear friends, Ali Alkan Supreme Court President, has published a two or three-page article about this issue. I'm only going to read you two paragraphs, what it says: Turkey and the European Union have been promised that for years there will be a court of law. Many healing effects in the judicial field will be revealed based on the fact that these courts are in operation. As stated in the Supreme Court's First Presidential Board's decision 16/7/2014 and 131, the business department arrangements between the Supreme Court offices were left at the end of 2014, depending on the authorities' statement that these courts would be launched in November 2014. If the indictment courts are to be carried out as suggested, the Court's workload will be reduced by about 90 per cent and there will be no files left in the archives waiting for an appeal at the end of 2015. What do you want, and why do you bring this? Let's bring in the litigation courts, let's save the State and the Supreme Court from this workload, but that's how you do it, and that's why you're doing it, and the reason you're doing it is to get more information to the allies, but I want to tell you about tomorrow's main event in a short time. My dear friends, look, Professor Dr. Rennan Pekülü has committed the crime of obstructing education because he reminded school students of the Constitutional Court and Prosecutor's Office decisions. He was sentenced to two years and one month in prison in 2012 by the Prime Criminal Court and is now in the process of implementing the decision. You judges want a trial like this. An academic, a professor, will go to prison for defending secularism because he enforces legal legislation. This decision is not really a judgment decision. This decision is a decision of revenge, a decision to intimidate, intimidate, intimidate those who advocate opposition to power, enlightenment, modernity. The government says: "I will either drown the side minister in a gas bomb or he will pay for it in prison." Now, this bill carries the same thing. When you make judgment your own, it's no longer a judgment. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0428par0140	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0429par0141	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit10spe0428par0142	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0428par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th session of the 19th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of the two motions for the release of Article 655 from the proposal text of Article 16 of the Law Proposal. Now, I'm going to put the motions back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll continue negotiations with the proposal. The commission is here, the government is here. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. In Article 17 there are three motions. The motions that are now to be read are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the 17th article of the current law proposal 655 rows from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Serba Suseyya Leader Sebahat Tuncel The signatures of the other motion are: Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Attila Kart Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 17th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Cemalettin Lightning Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0430par0030	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0428par0031	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0431par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0428par0033	Mr Mustafa Kalaycı will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0432par0036	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 17 of Law Proposal No. 655. I salute you all. The article we're talking about is the 17th expected to be established in the State Department. The agency is scheduled to serve as an executive agency and to be carried out by the head of the State Department of Business between administrative agencies. As I said in my speech on Article 10, it is clear that the majority are being seized by increasing the number of apartments and members in the Court and that the State wants to be put under political pressure. This violates the principles of the Constitution's legal state, judicial guarantee and the independence and neutrality of the judiciary. Dear lawmakers, with this proposal of law, we consider the arrangement that increases the salaries of our judges and prosecutors to be $1,154, positive as the National Movement Party. However, we argue that additional compensation should be arranged to reflect on pensions, and that our current retired judges and prosecutors should be taken advantage of. The judge and our prosecutors deserve to be paid more. Sadly, however, our judges and prosecutors are being wearied by this arrangement, which does not look after other justice workers at all. This must never be challenged or challenged. However, the AKP has been reluctant to improve the rights of our friends, although we have repeatedly expressed the justice services of judges and prosecutors. It's a pity that court workers who are trying to earn their living by sweating through countless cases are working in a way that lacks many rights to do so. What they do and what they get paid for it is certainly far from satisfactory. The clerk, bailiff, servant, driver, trust officials, teller, executive officers, executive and editors, information processing officers and technical staff, who have been placed under considerable responsibility for the execution of justice services, has unfortunately been ignored by the AKP. In detention and detentions, execution guards, psychologists, teachers, and other employees who work in control offices have been left alone with their problems between the four walls. The commitments to execution and protection officers and other employees, who have been removed from their rights and excluded from overtime, are also ignored. The officers of the court are secret heroes who have contributed greatly to the implementation of the justice service. At the moment, the court officials, who have given up their work in the event of overtime, consider themselves step-sons. Court officials want justice, justice awaits. Justice is only in the name of the Justice Department, where justice does not happen, unfortunately, is the Ministry of Justice. Again, does the ruling party, whose name begins with justice, want the court workers to be united, and the courts to be dragged into a state of unrest? Public defenders are also ignored. The victims of public defenders and lawyers' rights over the years have not been removed again. In his statement here, Mr. Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ said that we can only do so under the scope of the budget. I'm asking the Minister: is it possible for the AKP government to build a thousand-bedroom royal palace with people's money for $1.5 billion, buying new planes for $400 trillion, like buying gum from a grocery store, and buying trillions of dollars of power cars for the employees, not when it comes to pensioners? You've already used the supporting union to double-cross public employees and pensioners. In 2014, inflation in food and non-alcoholic beverages was 9 per cent, although the average salary increase was 5.2 per cent. Public officials and pensioners didn't get a raise in July, and inflation won't make a difference in January 2015. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0433par0043	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the 17th article of the current law proposal 655 rows from the draft text. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0434par0052	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0433par0053	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0435par0054	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0433par0055	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to preserve the current arrangement. As a matter of fact, it is clear that revisiting the number of departments and reorganising the duties of apartments is not a move to reduce the workload. Since reducing the workload requires a more structural change, this provision must be removed from the draft text because it poses more danger than reducing the workload and increasing the number of apartments, as well as the danger of the execution orbit. Mr. Jesus Gök will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0436par0061	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Guys, I'm not going into any technical matter analysis. Many of your friends were also in Parliament in 2010. I want you to remember and I want to ask you a question. The 2010 Constitutional Amendment was 26 articles, 13 of which were relevant to the judiciary. Are you satisfied with the government wing of the judicial department, which has been changed by the 2010 referendum? No one can say, "We are pleased." At that time, the Republican People's Party tried to make mistakes with all its power, all its knowledge, all its savings. Right now, the issue of sovereignty over the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court is going as far as it can, because there's been a significant amount of illegal restructuring within the Supreme Court. Yeah, I've had one before, but the 2010 referendum was an important one, and it's gone. And there came a team of people who decided that the law, the law, the law, and even the sum total of those who decided on orders... look, the judges have left; they have left, the leftist, the Islamist, all of them, but at least in this structure, everyone works in some way to base their decision on a Supreme Court, on a law, on something, because there was law, because there was law, there was law, there was law, and there came a structure that went straight to the conclusion. Isn't it the 2010 referendum for the building to come in this strong and especially to the Supreme Court and the State? It's the 159th Amendment? You put the ballot, the election, the new HSYK, into the judiciary, and we warned it from here for days. What's the point? A team that doesn't look at the law, doesn't look at the law, does business under orders. Now you're fighting him. Look, the fight right now is just the Supreme Court, the Court. Guys, the Supreme Court hasn't started yet. March 2015, the Constitutional Court's quarrel will be ignited in March, and we know it, it's expected, it has to be. Because the 2010 referendum also allowed a construction in the Constitutional Court. Yes, some political projects in the world after 1984 are now wanted by the hands of the judge, and I am completely against it. Georgia has been tested, Egypt has been tested, Turkey has been tested. Right now, some judicial members call it democracy, call it law, but the same judges were silent when illegal evidence was created in operations in 2007, when prosecutors, judges... cut-ins, we're looking at digital false evidence and we're handing out justice. They say, they're screaming now. Whatever happens, look, one way or another, you'll get political, religious, community -- call it parallel, whatever you want -- if you let them in with the constitutional system and you can't stop it with your own disciplinary mechanism, it'll go away, someone else will come. I'm a lawyer, my son's a lawyer, my daughter wants to be a lawyer. I want to be a lawyer in this country, but I'm sad. Because as far as the end is concerned, everyone is separated from the Supreme Court. Friends, the court mess halls were where we called them, called them, judges, prosecutors, and file talks. Now the dining halls are separate tables. I'm going there again. I'm sad. A group of judges are here, a group of judges are here. They're all unfortunately separated according to their ethnicity, according to their religious stance, according to their community. I'm bleeding inside. I've been a man who's earned my bread from judgment for thirty years. What are we getting at? You can't bring that to a place where you're always playing the Agency's law. The Agency's laws have always experienced changes that increase the disease. Please, take 159, talk to the opposition, talk to us. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're gonna have to figure this out. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0437par0071	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0438par0074	Request roll call.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0437par0075	I'll submit the motions to your votes, and there's a roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Korkmaz, Mr. Özensoy, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Acar, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Gök, Mr. Shooter, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Dudu, Mr. Akova, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Öz and Mr. Light. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. Mr. President. -.. I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. In Article 18 there are three motions. The motions I'm going to read are of the same nature. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 18 of Law 655 be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel The signatures of the other motion are: Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Jesus Gök Gürkut Acar Omar Süha Aldan Attila Kart Ali Riza Ozturk Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 18th Amendment of the current Law Proposal No. 655. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Kemalettin Yılmaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu You summoned Lightning Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Light Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0439par0109	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0437par0110	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0440par0111	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0437par0112	Mr. Alim Ik will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0441par0115	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on the 18th Article of Law Proposal No. 655 under discussion. Once again, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, this motion is intended to remove the text from the proposal and thus not be processed due to the violation of some of our Constitutional clauses of regulations regarding the duties of the Council of Presidents under Article 52 of State Law 2575. In particular, the existing law, not a lot, not 17 months before this date, but also during the AKP administrations period, before December 17, 25th, June 27, 2013, when Law 6494 was set up with Article 13th article of Law on June 27, 2013, even after a year and a half, it comes to the General Assembly agenda today, and it says: let's remove the duties of the Council of Presidents (a), (b) and (c), and also, let's raise the verdict, which is part of the (3), in any way, against the decision of the Council of Presidents, let's cut the way, and let's cut the way. Dear lawmakers, the AKP asked the nation to vote in its slogan: "We will finish corruption, we will lift bans and we will conquer poverty." But today we see that these 3 Y has become the brand of AKP (AKP), and you have become a party that sets up all the bans. The reason is obvious, because on December 17th-25, when someone calls up on December 17th and announces that the subject was not edited by the latest Judiciary Board of Forensic Medicine, which had been shared with the public at that time and was confused by allegations of assembly prior to the presidential elections, what do we do if someone reopens these files in the coming days? Then we'll have to take precautions. If we don't make this a judgment of the AKP, they'll burn us. Then you're making these arrangements because you fear the bans will burn us. These are contrary to the rule of law in Article 2 of the Constitution, the provisions for the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms under Article 40, the principles of independence and neutrality of the judiciary in Article 138, and the principles of the judicial and prosecution in Article 139. These arrangements are not acceptable. So we share with you that it should not be processed. Now, Mr. Group Vice President Ahmet Aydın Bey is here, and I owe him a thank-you. He showed me building licenses and building licenses for the illegal palace -- you didn't have a warrant -- so I'll put it on the agenda right away. Dear Deputy Director of the Group, this palace's fugitive is not due to its building license and permission to use construction. The illegality of this palace stems from the fact that you do not count the judgment that has transformed the 1st degree of status into the 3rd degree. But I would like to share with you that Mr. Group has distributed this document without reviewing the Deputy President, and I recommend that he review it immediately.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0442par0120	We've looked into it.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0441par0121	In this document, the valuable lawmakers are a total of 94,914 square meters, 800 square meters, and the total cost is 78 trillion liras, but the Finance Ministry described it as $1 billion,370 trillion.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0442par0122	Rough construction, rough construction...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0441par0123	Take a good look at the documents here. Therefore, you have not even seen irregularities in this document, which shows that it is one out of twenty. This judgment is going to be very controversial.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0443par0126	Thank you, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0441par0127	So he says, stop standing up for it, and I'll pay you back some respect.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0443par0129	Thank you, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0444par0130	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0443par0131	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0444par0132	Sir, he made other statements, other than my explanations, showing the documents.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0443par0133	Wait a minute... He showed me the documents, you had your explanations...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0444par0135	Yeah, he made my statements all wrong, and he talked about the number.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0445par0136	He didn't make a statement about it, Mr. President, he just showed me the document. I've already explained the document.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0444par0137	I'd like to explain that number, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0446par0138	Now, friends, members of lawmakers, this isn't an issue of bullying, so if you're saying that...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0444par0139	He's twisted my speech, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0446par0140	If he says otherwise, there's a situation where he makes a statement. Why don't you sit down, and I'll give you a moment to explain.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0447par0142	Mr. President, he has made no statement about this.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0446par0143	Mr. Light, please do not interfere. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0447par0145	He showed me the document, and he thought it was all true.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0446par0146	Dear Light, please...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0447par0147	So there's no explanation.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0446par0148	Please, Mr. Light... Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0448par0152	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, yes, I have stated that this structure is not an illegal structure, and this is fixed with documents. Secondly, all the protection boards have received the necessary permits. There's no procedure except for the protection boards' permissions. A building license was issued at the beginning of construction, and a permit to use construction for the ending blocks has been handed over to the Prime Minister by Ankara Metropolitan Mayor. Therefore, there are no fugitives involved. There is no interference in the status area, as well as permission from the protection boards. Again, the area where the building was built is being organised by the Ankara Metropolitan Mayorate, according to Article 73 of the City Code, since the Council of Ministers has declared the area of Urban Transformation and Development Project. Besides, there's some information here about the construction of the entire brute. The end of the building is entirely out of dissolving and dissolution. There are no others in the building license to use this structure, no other services to investigate. Our friend needs to know that. But I'm afraid it's completely distorted what they're saying. Another thing, dear friends, all the public is following us. At least two of those palaces are being paid to lower Turkey's interest by even one point. Turkey...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0449par0157	Yeah, make a road, brother, build a hospital, build a school!
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0450par0158	We're doing that, too.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0448par0159	He did it everywhere. The AK PARTY did not build palaces of justice in power, did not build schools, did not build universities, did not build roads, did not build bridges. Turkey is no longer the old Turkey they left behind. In the new Turkey, it is fitting for the new Turkey...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0451par0160	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0448par0161	...a presidential palace is also essential.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0451par0163	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0448par0164	A palace worthy of the honor of our country is essential. The person does not belong to the people. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0451par0166	Mr. Aydın, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0452par0167	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0451par0168	Mr. Sky, what did you want to say?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0452par0169	I'd like to make a very brief statement on this controversial matter as long as I'm in my position.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0451par0170	Is this about this?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0452par0171	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0451par0172	But right now, I promised Mr. Aydın....because of Mr. Light's bullying. What statement do you want to make?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0452par0173	Mr. President, the matter is important, and I have information I'd like to share with the Council.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0451par0174	But I'm afraid that's not the point. We're discussing the law, that's not the point.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0452par0175	No, but...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0451par0176	I'd like to ask you...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0452par0177	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0451par0178	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0452par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, dear friends, the other day, Mr. Minister of Justice announced that the Justice Department budget was being discussed, but he mentioned a different court, Ankara 11. He told me about the Supreme Court. Ankara 5. The Supreme Court...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0453par0183	It's not the 5th, it's the 11th.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0452par0184	5th, no, Mr. Secretary, 25 pages Ankara 5. It is clear that the administration court has decided to reduce its position to the third degree and to stop its execution due to its violation of the zoning plan of the roads surrounding it. This decision has not been lifted. But my concern is, he's five. The president and members of the Supreme Court can be replaced, by the way. Now, with a court order in place, I think it's within our rights to expect the Minister of Justice to comply with this court order. It's your decision to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in the middle of a period of time, there's no other subject to discuss.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0454par0187	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Light, what is your request?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0455par0189	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, this is the crude construction cost against my explanation of the costs in question. He said, he gave false information, and I want to correct it.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0454par0190	I'll give you a minute, too, from your position.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0455par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Group Vice President views politics only with a sense of saving the day.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0454par0194	Please explain, Mr. Light, don't make a fuss.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0455par0195	According to these documents, the cost of a square metre is now $97,914 square meters, and the amount of $78 million is worth $331,200. But this number is 1,370 million TL, the Finance Minister said in a statement about this end so far. Thus, there is a one-in-a-20 figure here. There's been an irregularity here, too. I wanted to share it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0454par0197	Thank you. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0456par0199	Mr. President, I'm just saying, for the record, because Mr. Levent gave us the missing information. Yes, Ankara 11. He told me about the ruling of the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0457par0200	5, 5...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0456par0201	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0458par0202	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0459par0203	No, I'm not having anyone talk about it, please.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0458par0204	Mr. Ahmet, but he misread what I said.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0459par0205	No. Mr. Secretary, do you want to make a statement?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0460par0207	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0459par0208	I'll give you two minutes, and we'll drop it because that's not the point.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0461par0209	Mr. Ahmet, but I'm not saying...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0459par0210	Please, please, Mr. Sky, that's not the point.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0461par0211	Yeah, but he spelled it wrong.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0459par0212	Please... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0461par0214	5. The Supreme Court...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0462par0216	Mr. President, my dear fellow deputies, this is Ankara 5. The Supreme Court has a ruling. The decision I'm talking about in the Plan and Budget Commission is Ankara 11. It's a ruling from the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0461par0217	That's what I said.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0462par0218	It's about the decision. Apartment (2014/3469) is the main no. He's decided with the good stuff.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0463par0219	Do you have five?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0461par0220	Five, what happened, sir?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0462par0221	I'll say that, too. 5. In its main case (2011/1879), the Executive Court has decided to halt the execution, but the District Administration Court has removed it. That's the situation right now. Therefore, there is no obstruction of court order. The court has made a decision, and the other court has ruled it out. That's what it's all about. It wasn't the 5 I was talking about, because there was nothing wrong with him, and I was talking about him because there was an argument about the other one. There are two decisions here. Didn't the court stop the execution?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0464par0225	When did you remove the five, Mr. Secretary? When was the decision lifted, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0462par0226	He's here, he's here, I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0465par0227	Okay, Mr. Secretary, are we done?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0462par0228	Yes, it is, Mr. President. Mr. President. -.. Well, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0465par0233	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Please, Congressman, that's not the point, we're discussing something else. In another context, you can argue any way you want. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 18 of Law 655 be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel The signatures of the other motion are: Ali İhsan Kokturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Jesus Gök Gürkut Acar Omar Süha Aldan Attila Kart Ali Riza Ozturk Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0466par0250	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0465par0251	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0467par0252	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0465par0253	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to preserve the current arrangement. As a matter of fact, it is imperative that this arrangement to weaken the departments and boards, rather than pluralism, be removed from the bill to form a hegemony of monotheistic mentality. Because the proposed arrangement in the form of the presidential board points to a structure that is likely and intended to be in the domain of the administration. We object to this arrangement, which stipulates that decisions from one centre, far from participation, will dominate the administrative judiciary. On the other motion, Dilek Akagün Yilmaz will speak.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0468par0257	Mr. President, let's not talk outside the box, shall we?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0465par0258	Okay, fine. I'll tell the MPs. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0469par0260	Mr. President, you know, the MPs are very clear in our Constitution, the lawmakers are free to speak. We have to express our thoughts freely. And as for the earlier debate, Mr. President of the Group said there was a decision by the District Administration Court to stop the execution, Mr. Secretary, that we're expecting this, and we're waiting as a group, as well. I'll also tell you this, Mr. Ahmet Aydın; look, what does it mean for us to have a historical heritage like the Ataturk Forest Farm in the urban transformation area, Ahmet Aydın? Is that possible, Mr. Ahmet?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0470par0263	In your power, they had them dump rubble there, rubble.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0471par0264	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0469par0265	I don't understand how it gets into the urban conversion field.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0471par0266	Mr. Yilmaz, I invite you to the subject and this is my first invitation.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0469par0267	Yes, I'll get to the point, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0471par0268	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0469par0269	I'll also discuss the motion on the 18th amendment of Law Proposal 655, but before that, we have one more request from the Minister. Our friends just told me. Professor Dr. Rennan Pekünlü has written and reminded female students who want to enter the university with a turban only under the decisions given by the Constitutional Court of Human Rights and by the European Court of Human Rights and by the internal law. Therefore, despite the fact that it does not interfere with the freedom of actual learning, two years and one month have been sentenced and the suspension of the sentence has been prevented, and tomorrow Master Rennan will teach his final lesson and go to Foça Open Prison. Now, last week, by our group, we had an offer to the entire AKP Group, including Mr. Secretary of Justice and the President of the Justice Commission -- the legal proposal was given by our group -- that the sentence was given according to Article 112 of the Turkish Penal Code. If there is any obstruction of freedom of learning by using algebra and threat in this sentence, let it remain, but what does that mean by any other violation of the law? That's not a vague description. We've requested that this be removed. It is also said to be prevented from entering or staying in the collective dwellings and extensions of the students. We wanted to add the word "also" to that point, and we made an offer that we said would be from two to five years, not six months to two years, but so far we haven't received an answer. Rennan Pekülü Hodja did nothing against the law. It is not a crime to warn, to warn, to warn, to inform, in fact, someone of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights decisions, which are only then, and which are now valid. Mr. Secretary, will you be willing to let the Rennan Pekülü Hodja go to prison? This law proposal -- the judicial package is being discussed, and the Turkish Penal Code is in it, and we can all give it together -- we want it to be downloaded to the General Assembly and removed from this injustice to Rennan Pekünü Hoxha; this is one of our primary demands. Beyond that, dear friends, members of lawmakers, I've come up here to talk about article 18. Under the amendment to Article 18, the powers of a multi-committee, which consists of office heads, chief prosecutors, vice presidents, and prosecutors, and prosecutors, are limited, and when this actually comes to us as an offer -- Mr. Shuay, I believe he was one of the bidders -- it was said that someone's positions were, in mandatory circumstances, the relocation of office heads, the relocation of student judges, these are given to the presidential board, which is less comprehensive, because they can be controlled faster. But look, with the motion of midnight on the Commission, it was also given to the presidential board to draft the business department decision between the apartments, so without going to any subcommittee or anything. Although that was not the case, the proposal was changed by midnight motion on the Commission.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0472par0273	There was no midnight work.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0469par0274	And I'll tell you this: the Council of Presidents had the right to object to that in Article 52 of the Court's Law on Replacing members and office heads, and the members had the right to object to it, and now they've been removed from it. What are we discussing just now? We're talking about a court order on the illegal palace.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0473par0275	Are we getting a license from CHP, brother?
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0469par0276	At the same time, look, we're also talking about the cancellation of the Galataport tender that Mr. President said. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're also talking about cutting the olive groves of the Yarca village. That's why you're playing with the Supreme Court and the Court of Justice.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0474par0279	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0469par0280	Those kinds of decisions are to stop the execution, not for the Yrca village, not for the runaway palace, not for the gold mines.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0474par0281	Your time is up, Mr. Yilmaz. Please don't be unfair to your friends, to the other MPs.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0469par0282	We understand that, and therefore we warn you about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-26sit11spe0474par0285	[[Applause from CHP rows]] I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
