tbmm-2014-10-15sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The opening roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough numbers for a meeting, and we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement is from Adana MP Necdet Ünuvar, who asked for a statement on the day of independence of the Azerbaijan state on October 18, 1991. Here you go, Mr. Unüvar.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the basis of Independence Day of the Republic of Azerbaijan, October 18th. I salute you all. Turkey and Azerbaijan are one nation, two states. Our religion is one, our language is one, our culture is one. There are points in our history that are very similar, intersecting. October comes at the beginning. October is important to both Turkey and Azerbaijan. On October 29th, we celebrate our Republic Day, and on October 18th, our Azerbaijan brothers celebrate their days of independence. Both countries have suffered a great deal in the past century, and have had a hard time, but today, praise be to God, Turkey is the shining star of Europe, and Azerbaijan is the shining star of South Caucasus. Azerbaijan's declaration of independence in 1918... you know that in the Caucasus Islamic Army Command under Nuri Pasha... he gained his independence... but the Bolshevik Russia unfortunately couldn't handle it, but on April 27, 1920, Azerbaijan took down the national government by occupation. From the early days of Bolshevik rule, Azerbaijan was awaiting a difficult and difficult process. The Bolshevik government is also making mass arrests and massacres, while using the oil of Azerbaijan in a humbling manner. Unfortunately for Azerbaijan's people, there were lakes, poverty and poverty. It went on for about 70 years. Since the mid - 80s, after the economics, political and spiritual problems of the Soviet community, Azerbaijan was also strengthened by the idea of national thoughts and self-returning. Over the years, the Azerbaijan people, who rebelled against the plundering of their national wealth, their religious and religious feelings, stood up with strong will, first in groups, then in cities, then in total resistance, and then the first signs of this resistance were protests. The first rally took place on February 19, 1988, and in November a public action began with a wave of numbers and rallies covering almost all of Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan). On 18 October 1991, the Soviet government finally had to accept the independence of Azerbaijan. Later, Azerbaijan's independence was unanimous in the parliamentary vote. We all know that the first country to recognise the independent government of Azerbaijan was the Republic of Turkey. Azerbaijan soon gathered with rich natural gas sources and oil sources and began to grow stronger from the beginning of the 1990s. According to the 2011 IMF assessment, Azerbaijan is the largest growing country in the last seven years. The unemployment rate has dropped from 50 per cent in 91 to 6 per cent today. With the TANAP Project, which was founded last month -- we signed the main lines agreement yesterday, and our Prime Minister said there was actually a peace project -- both Azerbaijan and Turkey, indeed, will bring peace through energy to the world. We have always been proud of the strengthening of Azerbaijan, because Turkey and Azerbaijan are one nation, two states, but one heart. Dear MPs, I hereby congratulate our Azerbaijan brothers on October 18th Independence Day. Mehmet Emin Lezade, the hero commander of the Caucasus Islamic Army, Nuri Pasha, and our unresolved heroes; the first President of Azerbaijani, who has won independence again in 1991, saluted the relationship between Turkey and Azerbaijan, the first President of Azerbaijan, Turkey, and Azerbaijan.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0003par0023	Thank you, Mr. Unüvar. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, who wants to talk about developments in the construction and housing sector in Turkey. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0004par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have been promised developments in the construction and housing sector in Turkey. I salute the grand jury. In recent times, signals from one wing of the government's economic administration show that the impact of the housing and construction sector in the economy is a situation against the industry, and they're making statements. Now, when we look at it this way, it shows that the economy is structurally corrupt and that it will continue. During the 2003-2013 period, 6.4 million apartments were licensed; 4.2 million apartments were also licensed for construction. At the moment, 2,2 million units are more and more unfinished if you take into account pre-2003. At the same time, the building license in three major cities is 2.4 million, and the building permit is 1.4 million. There are a million unfinished dwellings. 37 per cent of building licenses are in three major cities, 33 per cent of building permits. In the three major cities, 56 (56) of the 100 construction licenses were completed in İstanbul, 43 of every 100 apartments that were allowed to use in three major cities were completed in Ankara, 37 (37) in İstanbul, 20 (20) in İzmir; 60 (60) of every 100 apartments that began in these three cities. Of every five apartments with construction licenses in Turkey, one is in Istanbul, one of the 10 apartments with permission to use the building in Turkey is in Istanbul. According to the figures, it's 125-150 square meters per square meter, and if we look at those who have permission to use it, we see it as 335-350 square meters per square meter. We also see mortgaged housing sales drop by the end of August around 30 per cent. The housing industry has a lack of policy. The construction industry is already in the pools. God forbid! TOKI is disrupting the market. According to official figures of 500,000 dwellings said to have been delivered, 144,000 were made in sub and poor income groups. Mr. Davutoglu says he will prioritize horizontal architecture. They've been enjoying the vertical for 12 years. The President said the same thing. New Turkey is heading for bed. Now, even though the mortgage interest is down, loans are down. The industrialists are on their way to construction. The industry is out-of-date, the construction has begun. He's back in position to return to the East Block workers' homes. As the industry's share was reduced in national revenues, so many construction and housing sectors increased. When we looked all over, there was a strong public discussion about the development of events in the vertical construction of Denizli, against the new views of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister and the President. They love sports, but they love money. It is very difficult to change the quality of the private educational institution now and to give an unlimited amount of height, to convert changes from industry to trade and housing, to become a multi-level housing area for areas that have not been previously allowed to be built in the area of Karakurt, provided with field-qualified drinking water, near the Gökpınar Dam. The AKP is winning a runt here, and the behavior of this Ranta is very, very, we're going to propose research on this; and even something like that, there's one of the AKP's vice presidents. He said, "There's a report." He didn't mention it well, and at that time, the Denizli boys were suspected. Some people in Dubai say that the problems in the housing sector can be solved, the VAT can be downloaded. The AKP's minister says that such a thing cannot be done. There is no harmony in the AKP. Why? There, they represent Rants, different segments, in a different way. When we look at it that way, we really need to look into what needs to be done in both the housing and the construction industry with a research proposal. I would like to submit a motion to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for research on this matter and also to the highest committee's appreciation that I would ask the MPs for support in this matter. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0005par0039	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. The third unscheduled statement is from Mersin MP Aytuğ Atıcı, who wants to talk about the surgeries that have stopped due to lack of medical supplies. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0006par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to bring to your attention the matter of the surgeries that have stopped due to lack of medical supplies and the negative effects that have become a habit on the health of our people. I salute lawmakers who don't put public health at risk to make money and want the same kind of health care they want for their own child. For years, our country's healthcare system has been known to operate not by the Minister of Health, but by the Social Security Agency, the Minister of Labor. We've come to understand this once again from the surgeries that have stopped in the last week. The Ministry of Health has become a ministry responsible for building, building universities, building institutes, and building staff, and the public's problem is just, and it's just watching. It's not every day that this stuff isn't paid for, this drug isn't paid for, this surgery can't be done, let's not face this citizen's problem, like I can't get the prosthetic or the orthothetic. Look, guys, on October 1, 2014, the SGK comes out, and I've dropped the prices of the vital ingredients for the heart, the vein and the brain. You don't care if the citizen's surgery has stopped, whether he's dead or crippled. My brother! You can't produce the material anyway, so you're already addicted to foreign currency, so you guessed inflation by 5%, inflation doubles, 9.5%. You're up and you're shamelessly lowering the prices of these materials. And when the citizen reacts, you get up, and I raise the price of the materials that you've reduced from $100 to $70 to $5.75. You say, "You're fooling the public, but you can't do the surgeries again." Look, on October 1st, you issued a notice, and it didn't happen, two days ago, you changed this notice. It didn't happen again, the surgeries can't be done again, but you're up and we've solved the problem. You're fooling the public. Some of the citizens still believe in you and tell the doctor that the government has solved the problem, and you can't operate. And you're the only one responsible for that. Because it's only money that you understand health. The citizen's cancer treatment has stopped, he can't find the cancer drug, he's struggling, he's reaching out to the minister, he's putting a dime in his pocket. That's what you know about health. Every day he struggles, the citizen finds no place in the hospitals. Hundreds of people are looking for me every day, and I'm sure they're looking for you. The citizen says: "I pay taxes on bread, I pay taxes on the water I drink, and if I find a job, I pay my SGK bonus, but the day comes, I go to the operating table, and you don't do my surgery." Look, you've heard from how many people, citizens having heart attacks, lying down on the table, getting full angiograms, one of them comes along and says, "Sir, the SGK is paying Chinese goods, and if you want European goods, you're going to pay that much. In any case, you have no right to do this to a citizen who prays at the table. Look, it's much worse with prosthetics and orthoses. You haven't raised the price of any prosthetics and orthesis in six years. No inflation, no exchange rate, why didn't you increase it? Because you don't want to provide for the citizens. You don't meet the needs of the dead citizen, but you provide the needs of a citizen who can't walk. You've done something even worse, look, you've done something even worse; if you need a human leg, if you're a human vet, you're acting differently, and if you're a normal citizen, you're acting differently. Is that a good thing? It wasn't enough, you even separated veterans. If Gazi became a veteran in Korea, or Cyprus, you act separately if he became a veteran of terrorism in the east and southeast. Have you no fear of God?
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0007par0051	No, they don't have any fears, sir!
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0006par0052	Look, you had these veterans wearing false legs without any restrictions, and now you've sentenced them to the S.U.T., the Health Application Act. You're taking our vets back one step at a time. You don't pay those veterans because there won't be a war, we'll never go to Cyprus again, but you're trying to pay the people in the east and southeast, so you don't do that, and you're pulling them back. We, the Republican People's Party, say that it is possible to provide health care for everyone, equal, quality, accessible, and without paying a contribution. How? And do not make the people who disbelieve in their mothers rich, neither steal, nor beat, but prevent corruption. He says the biggest corruption is in the health, and I salute you.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0008par0055	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Before we go on the agenda, I'll make a promise to the lawmakers who have entered the system. The first word is for Mr. Hamzacebi. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0009par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. On October 12, 2014, an international conference took place in Cairo, Egypt, for the reconstruction of Gaza. The conference was attended by the foreign ministers or representatives of 30 countries. As a result of the conference, an amount of billions of dollars was committed to finance the reconstruction of the buildings in Gaza to compensate for the consequences of Israel's attacks on Gaza. Israel was not invited to this conference because Israel was the country that attacked Gaza, and his invitation was unthinkable. I'd like to ask you now: Why didn't Turkey attend the conference for the construction of a city, such as Gaza, where Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan had not dropped its tongue? Why didn't Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan lead Turkey to participate in an organization for the reconstruction of Gaza, even though he had made a public commitment to go to Gaza today? Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan or Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu who played the role of Mr. Prime Minister, I ask him the same question: Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu, why didn't Turkey attend this conference and Turkey take part in the construction of Gaza? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0010par0065	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0011par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. The proposal presented to the Justice Commission last night, which envisions amendments to the Penal Code and the Turkish Penal Code, shows that the government insists on continuing its legislation with the logic of smuggling goods from fire. This offer, which cannot be negotiated with publicists and opposition MPs in the Commission, has not been sent to the European Union's Compliance Commission. The proposal, which limites basic rights and freedoms and violates the acquish of the European Union, is the latest example of unqualified legislative habits that have been criticised in the European Union Progress Report. From here, I thank Mr. Secretary Bozdağ because he himself has made a confession saying, "We have no objection to a puzzle review." Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0012par0072	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0013par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. In recent years, the Ministry of Health has considered itself the sole authority to determine the needs, problems, and solutions of dentists, ignoring room and unity. He makes rules without consultation with representatives of trade groups. As a matter of fact, some of the regulations on the Special Health Institutions of Mouth and Dental Health have been changed over time, but the main rules are always preserved. Today, instead of solving the basic problems of the free dentist in the ministry's new regulation, hospital-like centers, which have been created with large capitals by liquidating offices, are intended to be dominated, not by workers, but by those who put the money in. This latest draft of regulations includes other unacceptable substances. Therefore, the new and participant draft must be created immediately, depending on the needs of the profession. In addition, subcontractors working on the 1st Istanbul Project have not been paid for nine months at the site of the real estate estate Ispartakule sales. A thousand people are acting in front of the General Manager's office. These subcontractors must be protected against the bankrupt company. Likewise, 1,500 people working at the mail distribution centers in Kadıköy are facing the same problem.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0014par0079	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0015par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. President attended the academic opening ceremony at the University of Marmara on Monday. However, that day, martial law was declared within the university and within the university. First of all, all the classes were canceled that day. None of the college students were admitted to the University of Marmara. All the roads around the university have been closed to traffic and such an academic opening. I mean, it's called opening or closing, so I'd like to point out from here. Who asked for this app? Why would that be an app? In a place where science should live freely in academia like college, I'd like to point out first that I don't think that's true. The second incident, Mr. President, again, went on a trip on Sunday in Bayburt, in the Black Sea. For the first time, Mr. President, there was a meeting of the harem's greetings. I mean, the barriers have been put up -- I think it was in Bayburt -- and it was not appropriate for the Republic of Turkey and the President of this country to speak there. In the Republic of Turkey, the harem salutes people together...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0016par0088	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0017par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. October 18th is the Independence Day of Azerbaijan, congratulations. Azerbaijan is a friendly, brother country. As a nation, as two states, our joys, our problems must be together. Today, eight cities around Karabağ and Azerbaijan have been occupied by Armenians. Many massacres have been committed in the form of the village of Hodja, and more than a million Azerbaijans are now immigrants elsewhere. The occupation must be announced to the world and must work at the point of its ownership and termination of the world's NGOs. So we say from here that the Azerbaijans must return to their own territory, as they do in their independence. I also salute the people of Azerbaijan from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It means we're with them, and I wish you the best of days. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0018par0098	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0019par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we had our warnings when the Metropolitan Law came out, but the Metropolitan City City Law came into effect six months ago and began to produce bitter results. Here, our town halls are under full custody, and our town halls' revenues have been cut in half. Sewers, water services, state and transport services have moved to the city municipality, and 120 workers, for example, are currently facing unemployment at the Bandirma Municipality, which operates in these services. So when AKP-based municipalities receive services available to CHP municipalities, they terminate all subcontractors working there. Today, in Bandırma, in Susurlik, there are painful consequences. Again, the village roads are completely neglected and out of service. A sewer explodes inside the village, the city doesn't own it, the boroughs don't own it, the villagers are in agony. The AKP has seized the property of the villagers, and the villagers are now in revolt, shouting, "What will happen to us?" They've taken the parks, the main streets. They double-parked the main streets and made it a front door...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0020par0106	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0021par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, because of AKP's antidemocratic and separatist practices, our country has become a fireball. At this stage, we must all speak the language of peace immediately. And for that, we just have to empathize. For Turkmen in Turkey, Tuzhurmatu, and Telafer, whatever it means to the Kurds, Kobani means the same thing. For the Arab Alevis of Turkey, what Lazkiya means to the Kurds, Kobani means the same thing. For all of us, whatever Cyprus means to Balkan immigrants, whatever the Balkans mean to the Kurds, Kobani means the same thing. If we can do this empathy, but if we can take care of each other's problems, each other's ancestors, there's no problem we can't solve, I salute you.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0020par0111	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0022par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP's solution process has made Turkey a country under curfew. In Turkey, the blood took the body, the place burned to the ground. What's the Home Secretary doing, and if he can't do anything, he can't quit? The process initiated by the AKP is not a process between a state and a terrorist organisation. However, such a contract can be made between a terrorist organization and another terrorist organization. Everyone should know that one thing can be discussed with the terrorist organization, which is that the organization has given up arms and violence. The AKP's process has made the PKK in the mountain a PKK member in the city with its gun. The latest actions of the PKK have shown that the solution process has led PKK to a stronger, more efficient and organised position in cities than before. The PKK is a fascist organisation that believes peace is at the end of the barrel; it is fought, not negotiated. The AKP has committed the biggest crime against the Turkish nation by making PKK the representative of Kurdish citizens.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0020par0116	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0023par0119	Thank you, Mayor. There is a plot of land in Ethir. 32 acres within the district of Beşiktaş, Istanbul. This is a police school that has raised valuable people to the police force for years, and this police school land is transferred 32 acres to IBB KİPTAŞ, İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality KİPTAŞ, then to TOKI, then to a private company. In this process, this land is then introduced to Law 6306 for transformation in areas at risk of disaster under the decision of the Council of Ministers, and it is declared an urban transformation area. This region, which is geologically unthreatening, is ordered to destroy the police school because the earthquake is unrestrained, and the land here is called urban transformation. What are they gonna do? The field company -- which is these times and these questionable situations -- is supposed to build residences and malls here. This is not urban transformation; this is real estate development, commercial purpose. Don't let them fool our people.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0020par0121	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0024par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. By the time our party came to power, our country's non-national gross was at $230 billion, its national income was at $3,500, and our exports were at $35 billion. Twelve years later, Turkey's national income reached the level of $11,000, and our illegitimate national product reached the levels of $820 billion, and our exports reached the levels of 160 billion. In the fulfillment of these economic sizes, our favorite city of our Turkish city, Burma, also has significant contributions. Our Fellowship exported over 10 billion dollars in nine months of exported exports only from Burma. Hopefully by the end of the year, over $12 billion will be exported by our Bursian industrialists. I want to thank our industry, our businessmen, from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and hopefully there are better days ahead of Turkey in the future, especially our employees, who have been involved in this export and contributing to Turkey's economy.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0025par0127	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0026par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. The high-speed train, as we all know, was activated before the holidays. Between Ankara-İstanbul and Istanbul-Ankara, it began six times a day. Earlier, Gebze was considered as the last stop -- between Ankara and Gebze -- and we have recently learned that Pendik was the last stop of the trains, while it was calculated that he would go to Europe on behalf of the Marmaray Project from Gebze. And now only one of the six expeditions in one day stand in Gebze. I want to warn the authorities about this. In particular, I expect a statement from the government on what it means to stop the train at a place where 1.5 million people live, considering the organised industrial region, TÜBITAK, I.T. Valley, and Tuzla, and other districts in that region. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0027par0133	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0028par0136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. During the 12-year period of the AKP government, public employees working in public are being deported to different parts of Turkey, families are being torn apart, with another province because they have not pledged or surrendered to them. On top of that, after the March 30 local elections, we face a major liquidation operation in the municipalities they won in İzmir. Sixty employees from Bags Town Hall were fired without a reason. 52 workers from the City of Menderes were fired without a reason. Our friends, who were known to belong to the Alevi sect, were fired, especially in Menderes. 87 workers from Kemalpaşa Municipality, 30 workers from Paying Municipality, and more than ten workers from the Kınik municipality were laid off. The fact that these people have different political ideas, the fact that they vote for different political parties doesn't mean they have to be fired, but the AKP government, in particular, is making public employees and workers who don't think like themselves, who don't give up on themselves. Once again, I urge the government not to play with people's bread.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0029par0139	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0030par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is October 15th, World Farmer's Women's Day. As agriculture remains a very important and indispensable sector for our country, our women remain in this sector as indispensable partners, shouldering this sector. They sow the earth, they harvest the harvest, they work in the harvest, they milk the cow, they make the bread, they are the mothers of our children; they are the pillars of the house, our women. The farmer invites the government to be responsible for training, health and social security services and justice for our women, and celebrates the World Farmer's Day of Women of all our farmer women, with respect and love.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0029par0145	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0031par0148	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, in our Adana, we have the İncirlik Military Base of America. This base has been operating for a long time. It's a constant inconvenience to our sense of independence. It's a neighborhood I lived in when I was young, and I've always opposed it, and it's not that important that I disagree. But, now, they say that the Americans and the government will be able to raise fighters in the country that we want to destroy, and they say, "We're going to send the warriors to this country that we're going to destroy." They say, "We're going to wash them." Yeah, well, let this United States and this government do it together and do it in other places than in Adana, so that they can get rid of the plagues for a while. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0032par0151	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0033par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Our country's agriculture continues to bleed every day because of 12 years of wrong agricultural policies and wrong choices. Unfortunately, our farmers are in need of co-ops and banks, and they moan in interest, foreclosure, mortgage, and execution clamps. Research, publishing, control, education and control activities at the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism are sadly failing due to lack of personnel. When will the appointment of agricultural engineer, veterinary physician, food engineer, water products engineer and landscape architects return to the story of Adeta snakes? When will the voice of these waiting staffs be heard for the appointment? For God's sake, give me a straight answer, and do not divert, and do not hold back. First of all, is there going to be an appointment or not? When will it be done? May I present your attention. I do, sir.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0034par0158	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0035par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Traffic accidents cause great financial and spiritual losses in our country, as they do all over the world. According to TÜİK 2013 data, 161,306 mortal and injured traffic accidents occurred throughout Turkey. In the first seven months of 2014, the number was 281,355. In our Mugla district, car accidents that are mortal and injured are increasing year after year. Again, TÜİK reported in 2013 that it was Müğláda 3. 806 fatal and injured traffic accidents occurred. In 2013, Mudla became the most mortal and injured 11th province. It was the 15th province in which fatal, injured traffic accidents were most fatal, while the number of wounded was the 12th province. The 17-year-old Rain, a high school student at Fethiyeyah last week, and two young people in a car accident on October 14 on the Seydikemer-Fethiye-Kash road...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0036par0165	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0037par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. On May 31, 2010, nine people died, known publicly as the Blue Marmara incident, and in connection with the crisis between Israel and Turkey, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan proposed conditions to improve our relations with Israel. 1) Israel's apology for the attack on the Blue Marmara. We know that this apology was done at Obama's request and instruction. 2) Payment for the families of nine people who died. 3) Israel's consent to the establishment of the international investigative commission proposed by UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon. 4) the removal of Israel's embargo at the Gaza Strip. Did Israel meet those conditions? What level of political, economic and diplomatic relations do we still have with Israel? Do you want to be forgotten by the Turkish public? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Public opinion is awaiting a statement from the government on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0038par0179	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0039par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. And while Mr. Secretary is here, my request from Mr. Secretary is this: in the Yavuzturk District of Skopjedar... Mr. Secretary isn't listening, but I think what they're talking about is much more important. How can I tell if Mr. Canikli still doesn't see himself as Minister? He still doesn't know it, Mr. Canicli. I assume you're the Minister.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0040par0185	Mr. Tanal, continue your conversation.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0039par0186	I'm sorry, but it's a matter of concern to the Minister. Sir, is it the public's problem or the MP's?
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0040par0187	You're running out of time, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0039par0188	Now, in Skopkudar district of Yavuzturk neighborhood, the streets are dark, the old municipal buses are running, and at the same time, there is a zoning problem in Yavuzturk neighbourhood, and the municipal buses don't work after eleven o'clock. The people of Üskudar Yavuzturk neighborhood are victims. I'd appreciate it if they'd take care of it. Üsküdar district Yavuzturk neighbourhood is awaiting a solution immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0040par0190	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0041par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. Through you, I'd like to ask the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting: 160 villages have been quarantined in August and September due to suspicion of blue language disease in small animals in Çanakkale, while in 32 villages, quarantine has been lifted because there are no deaths in 132 villages. What is being done in 32 villages to relieve the isolation of our farmers against the blue language disease, which does not infect animals directly and whose meat and milk do not pose a risk to humans? When will it be removed? Why did this quarantine take so long? Two, it is unfair for the AKP municipality in Bajramic district of Çanakkale to suddenly put 23 workers on the street and look at them completely ideologically and...
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0042par0197	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to prevent the right violations of the Constitution, which have been found by the Security Directorate, Coast Guard Command, Customs Undersecretary and General Command, and by the Department of Interior (GBT) to be used outside of the judicial purposes of the Bureau's administration, as well as the registration of legal activities, I demand and require a Parliament's investigation under Articles 104, and 105. [[Van]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7-Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15-Serra Sırrıyya Leader [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] The Law on Information No. 4982 and Article 74 of the Constitution, which is the source of this law, are entitled to the information requested by citizens from all official institutions. However, sharing information depends on the satisfaction of institutions due to the expression taken in Article 5 of the Information Act. At the beginning is the Office of the General Information Scan of the Interior Ministry, where citizens' records are kept. In a news from the press, the use of a statement on Aydın Erdem, a student at Dicle University who was killed by police, and the testimony of a PKKlı's participation in a funeral has been made clear by the approach to which these records were kept. In addition, the registration of democratic rights of rallies and press statements into the General Information Scan (GBT) system reveals that it is plugged in because of citizens' political views. Clearly, such an application violates the Constitution and the AIHS contracts. The lack of transparency of GBT and the lack of legal basis for the preparation of records have shown that GBT is being prepared with a political trend. It is a constitutional responsibility to establish a research commission to investigate and find solutions for the illegalities of the GBT, both institutional and the size of practice. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In terms of savings and recycling of natural resources in our country, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened in accordance with Articles 98, 104 and 105. [[Mersin]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Slap]] [[Kütahya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 8) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[Samsun]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Adana]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Adana]] 15) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Adana]] [[Kastamon]] 18) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Eskişehir]] 21) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] As human beings, we are rapidly destroying our old world. As a result of our poor use, global warming, the bill our world has billed for us, and the emergence of unusual events has now become mandatory for environmental awareness throughout the world. In recent years, the recycling sector has also been growing rapidly in our country. Our country's valued researchers continue to work on this subject in our universities and express the importance of the matter in various publications. Wastes, literally useless, useless objects, or materials, come to life in our minds, but the useful use of objects that we refer to as "mathics" can have excellent results in the context of preventing economic or environmental massacres. Recycling companies are sold to factories as raw materials, where the waste from street collectors and municipalities are separated from their species and passed through various transactions. In economic terms, the total revenues of recycling companies in our country are estimated to be between $1.1 and 2.2 billion. That's a very small figure in the terms of our country. The economic benefit aside, because factories provide some of their raw materials from recycling facilities, we will have made serious savings in the use of raw materials and less damage to our old world. Using the properties of waste, it is described as recycling the components in which they are transformed into other products or energy through physical, chemical, or chemical methods. With recycling, some of the raw materials are provided for by waste, natural resources are preserved. Import addiction reduces, saves energy. Less waste storage in regular waste storage areas reduces the need for space and the amount of garbage to store. So it's important to start recycling at the source. Some waste can only be recovered when collected separately in its source. The collection of used packaging and other assessable wastes separate and clean from the overall garbage is the first stage of the recovery process. Reprocessable waste (paper, cardboard, glass, plastic, metal) which is collected separately from other wastes is being reprocessed and recycled as available products. Considering that a pencil battery has been destroyed in nature for three centuries, a plastic plate for a century, a bottle of shampoo, or a canister for hundreds of years, it is wise to consider the extent of the environmental damage these wastes do to the environment. It should be known that if we consider that a liter of gasoline or a liter of used motor oil makes about 800,000 litres of drinking water undrinkable, it is clear that these wastes that we think we randomly dispose of will one day come to us by nature's hand. We must remember that the environment that has been given to us will one day return what they have received from us. We're looking at examples of this: erosion, floods, floods, pollution, disease, pandemics, etc. We can see it under the title. How can we have the nature to leave to generations to come with our soiled environment? The investigation of the issue by the TBMM will make our country and our people much more sensitive, as a precautionary measure of saving and recycling issues in the consumption of natural resources. Our motion is prepared for this purpose. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Despite all alleged measures taken by the government, 5 of our citizens were killed in the province of Şanlıurfa, Akçakkale, on 3 October 2012, as a result of artillery fire from Syria, and 10 people were injured. Despite all measures claimed by the AKP government, the incident raises doubts about weakness and weakness in the measures taken. In order to prevent possible deaths and take the necessary measures, we ask and demand that our Constitution be investigated by establishing a research commission on our Articles 98, 104 and 105. [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Starting with Tunisia, the people's movement, called the Arab Spring, influenced almost every Arab country in the Mediterranean Belt. The effect caused by the Arab Spring was not limited to the countries where public movements took place, but also the other countries in the Middle East, as well as the other countries in the Middle East, causing all countries of the world to take new positions. These public movements spread through dominoes in Arab countries were initially perceived as foreign policy development for neighbouring countries. However, as the widespread public movement expanded its influence, it has been particularly effective from neighbouring countries' foreign policies to domestic policies, economic policies to security policies. There is no doubt that one of the most important influences of Arab Spring in Turkey has been in the field of foreign policy. During this period, the Arab world was a mess, while the AKP government's new Ottoman peace, the new Ottoman peace, the zero issue, the founding of the game fell apart, and Turkey began to have serious problems with almost all its neighbours. The public movement in Syria, which shares Turkey's longest land border and is its neighbour, has been the longest and bloodiest since March 2011. The AKP government, which convinced itself and its immediate environment that there was regional and even global power, was involved in this new situation that surrounded the Middle East, looking at it from the frame. With Syria's historical, political, ethnic and religious structure, the AKP's government tried to play a leading role in Syria, making Turkey a subcontractor with no understanding of the major picture in the Middle East and the incentive of Western countries. The AKP government, as a leading role in Syria, is turning our territory into an attack base, turning some of the refugee camps into training camps, welcoming the opposition wing's meetings, aiding weapons and money, leading Turkey into the swamp of war. While the AKP government is doing all this, Turkey is acting as if it does not need to inform the public or even the TBM. Despite how and how the expedition plane was shot down by Syria on grounds of border violation, the pilot's death remains uncertain, despite all the time that has passed. The conflicting explanations and the confusion created in this issue are clear evidence of how serious the vortex has reached, when the AKP government is in a hurry to conceal the truth from the public. In addition, he insists on hiding from the public the effects of internal conflicts in Syria on our people living in our border areas. The AKP government is in a position not only to solve socioeconomic problems in the settlements in our border regions due to internal conflicts in Syria, but also to fail to provide security and security. In fact, in the event of October 3rd, five of our citizens were killed, including three women and three children. In fact, the incident, a harbinger of this incident, took place on September 18 when 3 people were injured by bullets and shrapnel that were hit in conflict on the Syrian side. Five of our innocent citizens died on October 3rd as a result of their efforts to forget the incident on September 18th, which is a harbinger of inconspicuous and insensitive governance, which is the harbinger of deaths saying, "I'm coming." Following the incident on September 18th, all possible measures have been taken in the Foreign Minister's statement that we have the strength to protect our borders and other border lengths. The work that had to be done was done, and Syria was given a note. He made his statement. Despite all measures taken by the AKP government, the loss of five of our citizens is quite significant. The fact that the deaths took place despite measures indicates that the government is incapable of taking measures and lacks them. Therefore, parliamentary research will be in place for preventing possible deaths and taking necessary measures. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (15/10/2014), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. It has been suggested that a parliamentary investigation of the Turkish Parliament's agenda should be met on Wednesday 15/10/2014, in order to determine the issues and measures of immigrants who have come to our country as fugitives on 10/1054 in the part of the General Assembly's General Assembly's agenda and to be investigated by all dimensions of their cause of death. In favor of the proposal, Diyarbakır MP Alton Tan. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0043par0387	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I've come to see you over and over again about this same matter. After I became the first legislator, when I was elected, whenever I had found an environment and a place to express the matter, I gave it to you, but I'm afraid that from that day until now, there was no improvement, and there was no intention of doing the government's part in this matter. Dear friends, what is the matter with illegal immigrants? Let's put it very briefly. Look at the headlines in the newspaper, you see a story every ten days, every 15 days, or you see a news report on TV: here's a boat, a boat, a boat, or a boat that goes down from coasts to coasts of Thrace, from coasts to coasts of the Aegean Sea, to Greek islands, and here's how many people have fallen into the sea; this is how many women, women, and so many people have lost their lives. Dear friends, this news has been repeated in the same way for years. Again, in the same way, this time, when we were going down the road, I mean, unfortunately, we even came across these, and it happened that in a tanker, behind a truck box, there were so many people trapped, drowned, lost their lives... Again, another form of news: Here, Filan is in the house, etcetera, etcetera, and so many migrant workers who came from countries trying to get out of Turkey were burned to death in an electrical ignition. Dear friends, believe me, I don't know the number of these right now, but at least a few thousand, just a few thousand, and I've come to your presence here again and again and asked the Minister of Internal Affairs: I asked the governors of Istanbul, İzmir, Edirne, and I said to the governors of Edirne, "Today, people from Mozambique, Kenya, from Congo, I don't know the last three-and-a-half thousand dollars who came out of Istanbul and came to Istanbul, and who couldn't find the last three-and-a-half dollars he had brought from his wife, begging of his friend, and the people in Aksaray, and the people who had given the people who had come to find their way, and who couldn't find them in his pocket, who couldn't find the last three-and-a-d been in Istanbul, who couldn't find out of Istanbul, who are the governor, who are the governor of the governor of Istanbul. Well, come on, he can't find Aksaray P.D.? Dear friends, if we can't find them and we don't know them. Believe me, this is a disgrace to Turkey, it's impossible. Secondly, there's another saying that even crows don't believe. An entire Republic of Turkey has systematically spent 20 years, 30 years of traffic, if it can't control this human trafficking, if it doesn't know who's doing it, if it can't catch it, I'm weak, I'm working, but I can't do anything. If it says, even crows won't believe it. A second conclusion: If what you say is true, if what you say is true, you're really working, trying, trying, trying, but you can't stop it and you can't figure it out, believe me, it's an embarrassment to Turkey for 80 million dollars. It's not possible, it's not possible. Now, where do I come from here, dear friends? Well, don't you have a bad conscience? So you don't have a conscience when thousands of people die like this? Second: What reason can justify this? Here, sir, what shall we do? Turkey is surrounded by fire circles, from Caucasus to Syria, from Iraq to Syria; somehow these people are throwing themselves into Turkey; we're taking some of them in ourselves, one way or another, wherever they go after them, we're not going after them; let them see what state they are. A law state can't say that. When a wolf snatches a sheep by the edge of the Tigris, they ask you? Where in the world was a thorn in the feet of an underdog asked of you? Please put an end to this scandal in the middle of Aksaray. Please, we beg you. Once again, I present to you from this bench, again, before the holiday: a relative of mine, my wife's aunt, has received reports from Mardin to Turkey. The government allows it at certain times. I personally reached out to the Undersecretary of the Interior at the time, and after that -- he became Undersecretary of Public Security, this friend of ours -- and I asked him, I couldn't bring our sick aunt, he's still there. I couldn't bring it, and I couldn't bring it with Mardin Governor, and I asked the Undersecretary of the Interior, and I couldn't. Another son of the same family, this aunt, and another aunt's son, they somehow took care of themselves, came to Turkey. I did, I did, I did, I asked, I said, "Oh, don't get caught up in these human traffickers, don't go. One is currently in Bulgaria, unable to move to Europe, cannot go to Germany; the other has been arrested in Bulgaria, and is arrested. Why do you bring your own borders, your own lands, and the people you call your brother, into these situations? If these people are to be properly invited here, if they want to leave again, then the international norms, whatever the standards are, will be sent before their lives are threatened, before they die, without being killed, without being killed, or what should I do? What should I do? What should I do? No, it's normal for them to come this way, and it's normal for them to get out in the night, in the rain, in the mud, in the waves, in the storm, in the boats, in the cabals, and escape and drown. It's none of our business, it's none of your business. If you say so, please tell me, and let it be recorded from here. Dear friends, for him, it's certainly murder, and I think it's even more serious, and I think it's even worse -- if it's just disinterest, if it's just disinterest, if it's just inconsequential, the way it's even scarier, the way it is, the way it's making money out of these murders, it's making money, it's making money, it's making money, it's making money. There are networks playing with people's lives. These networks fill their pockets and kill people, so that's the worst part. If only the Homeland Ministry, the Police General Directorate, the Istanbul Police Commissioner, the Aksaray Police Station had been inept or disinterested, if only it had been that much. Not that, but millions of dollars are going around, millions of euros are going around, and this total balance sheet of 25 to 30 years is equivalent to billions of euros if we put it on top of each other. Unfortunately, that goes into the pocket of some of the government forces. If he didn't, it wouldn't be possible, it wouldn't be possible, my friends. So let's open up a congressional investigation, let the plague of these murders fall down on us, let's investigate properly, let's expose the responsible, let's do what needs to be done together. My respects.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0044par0403	Thank you, Mr. Tan. Against Elazığ MP Shuay alpay. Here you go, Mr. Albany.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0045par0407	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group to open a group proposal for parliamentary investigation into the problems and causes of immigrants who have come to our country as fugitives and want to leave the country for the cause of their death. I hereby salute the High Council and our beloved nation. First of all, I call upon our soldiers who died in a helicopter crash and were also killed in a motorcade crash, and our fallen officers, including our fallen brother Emrah Rooster. There's no words for our martyrs, their location is clear, their status is clear. And my condolences to their families and to our beloved nation. And again, I pray for God's mercy on our citizens who have died because of terror and violence caused by the altars who want to lead our country back into chaos and darkness. And on Sunday, there was an election, the HSYK elections ended. I pray that HSYK elections bring blessings to our nation, to the justice community, to our judges and prosecutors, to the judiciary. The HSYK elections actually showed a result. With this choice and its consequences, the people have won, the people have won judgment, the driver's license, and the integrity; all things and all those who are parallel to the non-fit, along with hatred, hatred, hatred, and all sorts of non-profits, have lost, and are precious in this way. Regarding the group's proposal, our country, which has recently been increasingly important in its region, is in its position, which has accelerated its economy, developed its rule of law, accepted human rights as essential principles of the democratic regime, making significant developments in every field in the European Union candidacy process, and is used as a route and is used as such because of its natural, human and economic and geostrategic properties. There are many reasons why Turkey is preferred in smuggling immigrants. Once again, Turkey is a developing and enriching country, the importance of freedom of expression and thought, freedom of conscience and faith, and the fact that it has made serious legal reforms in this regard, and that it is a country that has brought democracy to a very high point in the region and European standards, particularly in those areas. For this reason, our country faces the problem of illegal immigrants, refugees and asylum seekers. In fact, another reason why immigrants or illegal immigrants in the region who either want to stay directly in our country or want to use our country as a transit route is because they know that they will be punished less and that they will not be subjected to inhuman treatment in Turkey. This is a remarkable reality. Of course, there are reasons for Turkey's preference for transition to Western countries. Turkey's position as a bridge between Asia and Europe, especially during the transitions from the north, and the excess of these countries and the number of systems there, where they will be dealt with when they are captured, the point of democracy and freedom, and many elements, such as economic instability, do not allow this path to be chosen. However, civil wars and disturbances in the Middle East, the general structure and situation of countries in the region, are also an obstacle for people traveling as immigrants or illegal immigrants to use the Middle East and this route. The comparison is one of the main reasons why Turkey, especially in the east, has a mountain, steep, 900km long line, especially in border crossings, and for natural reasons, the lack of time-consuming controls under border control, and the fact that there is a very long, indentured ridge along the western lane, especially for illegal immigrants who will cross Turkey as transit. With this reputation, especially in recent years, Turkey's geographical position and democratic development, economic development, is an important reason for view of all of this as a decisive factor. In this respect, Turkey has led to the legal arrival of foreigners in terms of tourism, scientific research, study, study and trade, as well as attempts to cross the third country illegally through asylum, illegal migrations and actions. Of course, about the immigrants who were captured in our country... in fact, of course, one of the reasons why the group's proposal was given is that it appears to be because of its motives, and in general, it's about its purplification. Regarding immigrants captured in our country, the security units are primarily investigating whether or not the event is organised, and if smuggling is detected, the process of trafficking is being initiated under Article 79 of the Turkish Penal Code. As for the captured immigrants, the decision is made for deportation due to administrative fines and deportation of the country in our legislation. This decision is placed in the return centers in the provinces until it is deported, unless the immigrants are deported immediately -- reasons such as passports or shortcomings in other transactions. In the meantime, the basic needs of immigrants are also provided for free and in human circumstances. On the other hand, when there are those in their country who do not wish to go forward with their domestic disturbances and human rights violations, such demands are carefully examined, and if their statements are correct, the deportation decision is postponed or cancelled. Therefore, there is no forced return to their country. In addition, immigrants can be asked to apply for international protection at every stage of their transactions; they are not deported until their application is finalised. These are important assurances. As it is known, the International Protection Act on Foreign Affairs and International Protection Law, which entered into force on 11 April 2014, is a law on human rights and on the basis of our international acquitive obligations, enforcing the area of immigration in detail, as well as an effective fight on illegal immigration. As is known about this, our Ministry of Internal Affairs has begun its job as head of the Immigration Administration, and its organisation has been completed. The main thing to say about the Foreign and International Protection Act and the new immigration system is: The Law consists of 3 main sections: 1) International Protection 3) about the establishment and duties of the Immigration Administration's General Directorate... The main issues and objectives organised by the law are: access to Turkey and exit from Turkey, provisions concerning visas, residence permit and various types, deportation of the homeless person and rights -- this is very important, we've just tried to talk about -- acceptance and resuscitation centers with housing centres, the principle of not sending back international types of protection, the principle of not sending back with these international acities -- about interim protection, compliance, organisation, the establishment and duties of the Immigration Administration General Board, the general regulation of Immigration Policys. Our basic approaches here and the issue that we are sensitive to, Turkey will continue to carry out this issue in accordance with international law agreements, by establishing the balance of security-freedom, by not giving up its security concerns. Our approach is a human-centered approach. We're on the basis of our internal law regulations. However, we also consider ourselves committed to international contracts that we signed and felt connected to us. Of course, what we feel and wish to see from time to time is the end of nonhuman treatments that we have witnessed, and especially of which the refugees have been subjected to, and the proper measures may be taken at the point of reaching their goals, perhaps human goals. Turkey has done its part by now, and will do it the next time. I hope that these problems of migration and thinking and humanity will end the tragedy, but I also know that we face problems as ancient and ancient as human history. I salute all of you with my deepest respect, with love, with respect.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0046par0422	Thank you, Mr. Albany.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0047par0423	Mr. President, the secretary has not said a word about why these smugglers were not captured, and I'd like to be recorded.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0046par0424	Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0048par0425	Not at all. Our security forces are implementing it, and there are records of him practicing it.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0047par0426	Yet thousands of people are dying, and the Republic of Turkey is helpless.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0048par0427	Now, Mr. Tan, statistically, there's no need to make statements about these things. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you want, we'll answer that when you ask, but there's no problem. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0049par0431	Thank you, Mr. Albany. On the other hand, Izmir MP Mehmet Ali Sesam. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Sesame.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0050par0435	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, who have previously been an Izmir MP, held on to a piece of wood in the Aegean Sea, in despair, who watched the bodies of those who couldn't hold on to them in a bag on television channels, and who had a conscience of great responsibility, we submitted the motion to the Parliament to investigate with our friends. Since our friends today have the opportunity to speak on this matter along with the motion given by HDP (HDP), I would like to enter into the details of the matter in order to fulfill this conscientious responsibility. It's what Mr. Tan said that's important. Mr. Shuay left, gave a general speech. You're in power, you've been running the country for thirteen years. There's a problem right now; there are parts of this problem that concern the government in this country, there are parts that concern the European Union, there are parts that concern the world's imperial system. This, yes, is an old event like human history, but it is also necessary to examine the reflections of this old event in a very good way today and to take a clear stand on our part. We underline that Turkey is a gateway today. In Turkey, at the borders of Bulgaria and Greece, the European Union is trying to protect itself, but because of migrations from the Aegean Sea or Africa, Spain is a serious issue of illegal immigrants from Italy. Amnesty International has also published reports of serious warnings of the European Union on this issue. He said, "O European Union, you don't have enough budgets for immigrants, nor do you take steps towards human rights and human freedom to prevent them." However, you want to create buffer zones at the point where you can only push these illegal immigrants to determine your own destiny. Here, Turkey is one of these buffer zones. Turkey is trying to become a buffer zone. There are words from the European Union about this, and they have an attitude at the point where they bring in the immigrants they've captured and put them on our border. Turkey must take serious steps on this issue, having to regulate its internal structure first. The question being asked here is that in Aksaray, we must first make a self - examination of hundreds, thousands of people who have lost their lives while staying in hotels in Basmane, making deals with people who will drive them across the border, paying money, and then running for their lives in unregistered ways. Don't the people of those Basmane hotels know about the Izmir Police, the İzmir Governorate, the intelligence agencies of this country, don't they know about the people in Aksaray? There is clear information in Turkey that there are networks, companies, and networks that operate through human trafficking, which have created budgets that have reached millions of dollars. We need to take steps to prevent this. For him, this House needs to talk about it and take steps in it. Dear friends, along with these illegal immigrants, we are facing serious problems in the country along with the human dramas of these illegal immigrants. Our country's borders are not just a mountain line, but a serious problem has come, not from unstoppable crossings, but from the fact that our border has lost its limits. Yes, there are problems with our neighbors. It is the duty of this country to embrace the people who have escaped from the circle of fire in our neighbors, but we must do our duty to make sure that the people who come to this country and the people who live in this country become brothers to each other. Now they're enemies. Here is a situation in Gaziantep, where the Syrians have to raid and drive those people out of the neighborhood, or when they come to this country, they do a lot of unidentified, undetermined actions that eliminate the peace, internal functioning of this country. These people go into working life. Sometimes, in Izmir, as in the Shoemakers' Site, Turkish workers rise up, and the Syrian workers can't work here. They come to the point where they drive the workers from there. We have to talk about all of this, and we have to come up with a solution to all of this; that's what it takes to be a state, to run this country well. In the face of this human drama, when we embrace these people, we must also come out to the world and say, "O United Nations, O human rights organizations, forgive me, why don't you take a step in the face of Turkey's actions in this situation? O European Union, why don't you do it? This country has to take steps and improve them as to the initiatives necessary to say so. For him, first of all, Turkey -- it's reassuring, it's policy-making, it's taken precautions -- should stop being a country watching these illegal crossings. At this point, our serious weakness is as if Turkey is at a point where it allows for illegal passage to the European Union and organises it. To him, my dear friends, this matter must be seriously the work of this House. This Parliament should examine this both for the safety of the country and for the injustice of its international relations and must take steps to take serious measures. I'm aware that there's no such thing as a distraction. We, the Republican People's Party Group, want this to be handled seriously, and in that sense, we support the motion given by our friends today. This Parliament must support this motion, allowing it to be studied widely, and correcting people's situation in this regard. See, when the great migrations to Italy began, and the last 400 people died in the Mediterranean, Italy took a solution instead of leaving the immigrants with a project called "Mare Nostrum" to their fate, and in the last year, it saved 50,000 people. He said to the European Union: "I ask you for money for the expenses I pay for them, and I ask for support. This is how serious government policies are created. Likewise, we must take steps from the Aegean Sea, from our other borders, to implement a proper policy on the problems of illegal immigrants and illegal immigrants and to find solutions with all international organisations. This motion will lead to that. In this sense, it's a motion to prevent death and contribute to the end of human drama. Imperialists should pay the price as a human drama that they have left behind Africa, Afghanistan, that many countries in the Middle East do not allow their people to cross their borders and that they have to let them drown in the sea. We, too, must do our part and be a Parliament that has taken the necessary measures to be the country that has done the most sincere, sincere work on this matter to the countries. With these feelings, I support the motion and salute you all.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0051par0444	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. Against Isparta MP Recep Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0052par0448	Dear MPs, I salute you all. I have made a pledge to the People's Democratic Party's motion to investigate the problems and the causes of death by immigrants who have come to our country illegally and who want to go abroad via our country. Of course, the immigration problem is not only Turkey's problem, but the world's. We are all witnesses to the fact that in some political reasons, for some economic reasons, for some legal reasons, and that recently, because of their own safety, safety, property security, people from many different countries, our country has been used as a transit country, or our country has been used as a place of refuge. Yes, the migration has migrated from poor countries to Europe, to the West, since the world was established, but it's been used as a cheap labor force by Westerners and it's been almost exploited by immigrants... our history has always witnessed that. Our country -- as I've just said -- is a transit and asylum seeker country, but it's never been a source country, it's never been a country that migrates from its country to anywhere else. When we look at police records, the most countries in the world have been fighting this migration, the illegal migration, fighting the fugitive, and the highest catch rates have been countries. Of course, people who come out of their homeland have a world of problems with their economies, health, life. Yes, they face deaths. They die from their lives traveling under inappropriate conditions at sea. But in the best sense, to find a solution in the best sense, there is a Turkey in Syria, a citizen in Syria, who came to him as a guest, all over the world, his sect, his race, his religion, where he came from, he opened his hand without looking at geography, and there's a Turkey in the world's envy. There is a country in which most Western countries receive ten days, twenty days, two days, and have a number of people in their tents that the European country has not received in five years or ten years. There's been a lot of deals made about immigration. There have been bilateral agreements with many countries. Turkey has always had its share of obligations in these agreements, but the West, the European Union, which gives us some advice, does not carry out its obligation to the United Nations. Let us, of course, see if there are any problems with these problems. Migration Administration General Directorate, AFAD, various institutions are trying to solve their problems for citizens of all the world who have come to us on immigration. Our agenda for today's Parliament is clear. I say we're sensitive to problems, and I respect you all, sir.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0053par0458	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0054par0461	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit02spe0053par0462	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Koren, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Kölebi, Mr. Köse, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Akova, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Koruturk, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Onur, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Kölebi, Mr. Köse. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-10-15sit03spe0053par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of Turkey's 4th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The meeting was not enough before the vote of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group. I'm going to repeat the roll call now. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Members of parliament, since the second roll call did not find enough meetings, it is Thursday (October 16th 2014) at 14 p.m. to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
