tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 23rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Mahmoud Tanal (Islamic Party) who wants to talk about the problems of our disabled citizens. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0002par0010	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute and cherish all our citizens who listen to us on their television. It's the week of the disabled, but I'm not going to say the weekend of the disabled, I'm going to say the week of the blocked. The only obstacle to our disabled citizens here is what the government puts in front of them. What are these obstacles? Let's count the basics of hundreds of obstacles. One, our citizens are demanding employment, but the staff that is reserved for them is employed by non-impaired people. Our citizens are being prevented from working. According to the 2013 report of the Office of the disabled and Older Services, 78 per cent of our 7-8 million disabled citizens are not included in the labour force. This means that about 6 or 7 million disabled citizens are not involved in the labour force. Only 100,000 of our 1,800,000 disabled citizens who could join the labour force could be employed. This leads to the conclusion that our disabled citizens who can't work because they can't find work have to live without teaching and completely dependent on others. Resolving the employment problem of disabled citizens is the key solution to both their own and their families' participation in education and to ensure that they live independently. Second: These citizens demand the necessary use of health care, but are again being blocked by government policies. There is no treatment for the average 50 percent of our 7-8 million disabled citizens. It's because of our health system's failures. Our disabled citizens do not benefit from health care equally. The lack of treatment of close to 50 percent of our citizens causes many of our citizens to live independently and productively after treatment to become addicted, victims. The government is not only responsible for the Constitution and legislation provisions, but also for practices that may violate international legislation such as the United Nations Week of the disabled, the Convention on the Rights of the disabled, and the victim of our citizen. These citizens demand the use of education services in the way they deserve. At the same time, 36 percent of our disabled citizens can't even read or write. Only 2 per cent of disabled people who know how to read and write go to college. Being disabled makes it difficult to study, but not being able to study increases the burden of being disabled. Special education opportunities for disabled persons and accessibility for education must be provided. It's the government's obstacle to making our citizens disabled. Thus, the week is not really the week of the disabled, but the week of the blocked. I salute all those who are prevented here. Of course, the newly built campus of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, although the newly built building is a smart building, our visually impaired citizens have difficulty reaching MPs from the main building without the help of an officer. For that reason, I would immediately ask the Speaker of the House to have access to all of you in the new building, where lawmakers are located, where our blind citizens are called the smart building, without need of anyone.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0003par0016	Thank you. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk, who asked about the Day of World Miners on December 4th. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0004par0021	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today is December 4th, the Day of the Miners of the World. The history of this day being Earth Miners' Day was given to the gallery where miners worked during the Roman Empire with the story of a woman named Santa Barbara who escaped her father's wrath. After Santa Barbara escaped his father's wrath, he took refuge at the mining gallery where the miners worked, and the miners declared him their protector. From that day forward, Santa Barbara is known as the coal miner. Dear lawmakers, in this age of intelligence, science and technology, we can no longer abandon our people in mining activity underground or above the ground to the mercy of Santa Barbara. We cannot be content with Santa Barbara's protection. Today I bow before the memory of Karadon, Kozlu, Kilimli, Armutçuk, Amasra, and Ermenek, Soma, Elbia, all around Turkey, all of our miners who lost their lives in mines. At this point, December 4th has actually become a memorial, not a celebration of the Day of the Miners. After the job murder in Soma, the mine in Soma had been closed and nearly 3,000 workers and the employer had been laid off. Again, there was a job murder called Ermenek, and 18 of our workers lost their lives. Precious lawmakers are the main responsibility of the state in countries where business accidents are minimal, the employer is responsible for the second degree; employees or technical staff are obliged to implement measures on the occupational health and occupational safety of the employer; they are obliged to ensure that they are implemented. In Turkey, the workers are responsible in the first degree, the dead stay dead, and the undead enter prisons. Now, valued lawmakers, this is the coroner's report on the incident in Ermenek. I'm reading the conclusion of this expert report, and if my AKP deputy friends listen, they'll be fine: the Ermenek Cenne Lineit Coal Company is flawed. The Company of Sugar Mining, Energy, Transport, Construction, Industry and Trade Limited is flawed. The Department of Mining Affairs is flawed. Technical Custody Ali Kurt is perfect. Permanent custodians Yavuz Ozoy, Nuray Kır and Cemile Karaca are perfect. In January, 18 workers who were exposed to the flood and are still in the furnace were considered to be flawless. Professor Dr. D. İşk Ece, İstanbul Technical University Mining Faculty; Mehmet Uygur, Mining Engineer; Turgut İnce, Mining Engineer. The honorable MPs, Yavuz Özsoy and Ali Kurt, who have been declared to be perfect by the coroner's report, are in prison. Again, the other mining engineer -- a month and a half of mining engineer -- was released on probation. If the other workers on the stove hadn't died, if they had survived, I think they would have been sent to prison. With that understanding, we can't prevent business accidents. We can't prevent the mining industry by treating the mining industry like it's a smuggling business, pretending it's smuggling to the miners. Deaths are in the fringe of mining. Mine accidents cannot be prevented. The history that wrote the Fetret Age of the Ottoman era will write your era as an extremism. I bow before the memory of all the miners who have lost their lives.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0005par0030	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Yalova MP Basal Coshkun (the Yalova MP) who wanted to talk about the tree cut in Yalova. Here you go, Mr. Coshkun.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0006par0035	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, our beloved nation who have been watching us on television, the tree cut in Yalova, which has been sitting on the nation's agenda for a week -- in a nail -- I don't like this expression -- but I'm here to express my views on it. I salute you all. A bridge intersection was decided to be built to relax the Yalova traffic. That's what everyone wants, everybody agrees. However, in order for the project to take place, that area would have to be prepared. That's where the trouble and trouble begin. Unfortunately, the city didn't do it well. When the proper trees were supposed to be removed and transferred to another location, he was a wholesaler, he destroyed them all together, and that's how he solved the problem. It's not pleasant, it's deeply upsetting to all of us. Especially in the surrounding area, the massacre of CHP, who claims to be sensitive in the tree, has shown its true nature, and CHP has been caught in the act. On the trip, in the Validebağ, Ankara ODTÜ, the real face of their actions was revealed, and it was also understood that the matter of them was not a tree. I'm afraid there hasn't been a reaction from our CHP friends in less than a week. The CHP MPs who ran all over the place, climbing the tanks, the TOMAs, my town. They didn't come to the Yalova of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, where he called it "my city." He refused to cut down a tree branch and ran the mansion. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, on the other hand, what happened at the city council may be the first. There is a municipality in Yalova, which does not talk to its own councilman, reacts, uses pepper spray because it reacts. Mr. Kilicdaroglu says he wants to be in power by referring to municipal studies. Don't let him tell the city of Yalova because he'll interfere with his power. The municipality they bought with great claims and alliances collapsed in six months. I can't imagine what would've happened to Yalova if an AK PARTY municipality had done this. Of course, we don't want Yalova to turn into an arena, of course we don't want the negatives happening elsewhere in our beautiful province, but I wonder if you're sitting here so calm. The mayor's statement the other day made a lot of sense. He says: "From all of these things, from this process, the general president -- I mean Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu. " That's the sad part of it. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, we will continue to plant Yalova, whose 60 per cent is green. This Saturday, two days later, we started a sewing campaign for 200 synth trees, 4,000 limes and walnuts. (AK PARTY) I'd like to welcome our Minister of the Forest and all my fellow Yalovans, our available deputies, to Yalova, on Saturday.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0007par0039	What do you plan to do with the trees in the hills?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0006par0040	Dear friends, I'd like to share with you some of the things that have been published in the press about Jalova. The view that is unbecoming of Jalova, where Ataturk is building a mansion for a tree branch. We are not worthy of you, Atam. He says the Yalovar will warm up with them again. This is what happened, this is what happened. This is in the local press. And he says he's giving wood to the poor in the national press, Mr. President. You know how they'd often criticize us for handing out coal, and they'd cut down the tree and start giving it away? That should be interesting. Did MIT do this too? Yes, Mr. Mayor says: "I'm stuck on the highways, the MP's stuck on me. " So the one who squeezes them like this doesn't stop. On this occasion, I give all of you a sense of respect for man and then respect for nature and the tree.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0008par0043	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0009par0045	Mr. President, the speaker has made his criticism of the trees that have been cut down in Yalova, while he has gone beyond his criticism of the Republican People's Party's corporate personality and criticism of our President. I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0008par0046	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. I'll give you two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0009par0050	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Yalova MP, who was just speaking from this bench, gave a general criticism of the trees that had been cut down in Yalova, and then went beyond that and criticised the Republican People's Party for identifying them with the trees that had been cut down. I don't agree with the second part of the review. In chapter one, I share the same sensitivity regarding the criticism of the trees that were cut down in Yalova. These trees should not have been cut down in Yalova.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0010par0053	So, why'd it stop?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0009par0054	There's no doubt about it. Our Yalova MP Muharrem Tünce has also made a statement apologizing to all humanity. We feel sorry for those trees, too.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0010par0055	But it doesn't bring back trees.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0009par0056	Dear friends, however, I will now advise this speaker to make a self-criticism. The pepper spray at Yalova City Hall is also a cause of sadness. That shouldn't have happened either. And I'm apologizing to him now. Will you apologize to the family of the young ones you killed with those pepper spray cartridges that were bored on the trip? Will you apologize to the family of Ali Ismail Korkmaz, who was lynched in Eskişehir? Will you apologize to the family of that 14-year-old, Berkin Else? Are you going to apologize for the trees that were cut down on the trip? Yes, it was not just about the trees, but about the land, the country, the community, the freedom. It was the cry of a youth, a society, standing in the face of a power that was pressuring these freedoms. Will you apologize for your oppressive, authoritarian attitude? Will you apologize to the nation for the palace that slaughtered the Ataturk Forest Farm? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0011par0062	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of parliament, the recommendation of the Council of Counselling Council on the meeting schedule of the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2013 Central Management Computation Act was adopted yesterday. The meeting programme for budget and final account law drafts on the General Assembly will be included on the Turkish Grand National Assembly website and will be published and distributed to members. The recording process of the members who want to take a stand on behalf of their individuals will be carried out on Monday (December 8th 2014) by members of the President's Court at the Republican People's Party Group Assembly Hall between 10 p.m. and 10.30 p.m. on Monday (December 2014). Every member of the United States must personally make a record. There will be no record of anyone else. Other than the specified hours, the lyrics will be made by the President of the Laws and Decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, please report to your information. Members of parliament, the Tunceli MP Huseyin Aygün (Second) has been written to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in an open vote in yesterday's unification. I'll have him read it and present it to you for the record. However, since the open vote has been completed and the result has been announced, it is not possible to correct the game. Turkey's Grand National Assembly to Chairman of the Court On 03.12.2014, I later learned that I voted against the International Agreement on Cyprus at the TBM. My vote will be in the form of acceptance. With all due respect, it is necessary to correct the error. 04. 12. 2014 Thank you. It has been presented to your knowledge. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0012par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, today is December 4th, the Day of the Miners of the World. Unfortunately, we can't celebrate World Miners Day. Today, the last miners who were buried in Ermenek were also removed. I ask for God's mercy on all of our miners who have lost in Ermenek, Soma, and elsewhere, in the mines, and to their families, relatives, and our nation, and I invite the government to make the necessary legal arrangements for this matter. In this regard, we have a Business Health and Occupational Safety Law Proposal, which we gave last Friday. Let's take this offer, let's complete it if it's missing, and then we'll legalize it after the budget. December 4th is also the founding anniversary of the Faculty of Political Information in the Metteb. I, too, thank the Ottoman king who founded this school in time, to the republic that brought it to this day, to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends, to all our academic staff, who served the school, to our director, and the Meccan Property will always be in Turkey's future. By saying that, I'm done. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0013par0088	Thank you. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the measures to be taken by identifying the internal traffic and transport issues of Adana Province, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under the Constitution's 98th and 104th and 105th Articles of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Adana]] [[Amasya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[İzmir]] 7) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] 9) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Let's go.]] 11) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Army]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] The problems of rapid urbanization, industrialisation and population growth are undoubtedly reflected in the transport sector. The urbanization rate may be seen as a sign of the economic and social development of society, but planned urbanization is all about the current infrastructure, the transportation infrastructure. Therefore, plans for transportation and traffic, which is part of it, and proposals for solutions, must also be complete. The main duty of the states is to create transportation capacity to meet the needs of economic and social development, to establish and coordinate transport systems in accordance with the conditions of the day, the interests of the country and society. In 2008, Adana was the 45th in the ranking of living cities, and in 2011, it fell down to the 55th place. The reason for this is obvious; it causes a traffic problem that can't be solved, that can't get out of it. For the Adanan, the problem of transportation, which has become a total torture, has become chronic. Current approaches and applications on urban transport are limited to producing local solutions, as there is no Island Transport Master Plan. It is known that localized applications make domestic transportation impossible to get out of. In solving the problem of urban transportation, which has become increasingly painful in our province, the problem has grown like an avalanche because a method determined by the effective participation of the inhabitants of the city has never been tested based on priorities and needs. We need to understand that the solution is in a good and modern public transport system that can get people to where they're going, not at the crossroads and the road. So, we need to set the problem right and look in the right places, depending on it. That way, we can make our cities more habitable without drowning them in asphalt and road. People who spend at least three or five hours of their daily life in traffic are searching for a quick, comfortable, secure, economical, and shorter time spent in traffic. Traffic is also at the top of Adana's top issues, as traffic infrastructure and public traffic awareness are not sufficient to improve. The pain of it is that the intensity of new vehicles to get into traffic is increasingly unresolved, which is very fast and unstoppable in the direction of this chaos, or, in fact, no scientific measures are being taken to prevent it. According to traffic registration data, the number of registered motor vehicles in the city centre of Adana was 419,422 on July 31st. The number of vehicles left in the districts outside the centre was 82,739. Given the fact that hundreds of new vehicles will be in traffic every day, it is clear that new subgates, intersections, sidewalks, parking lots, new roads will be of no use. So the traffic problem is not solved by temporary means, and the solution is waiting. As long as this important problem is not resolved, everyone knows what our human, economic, psychological and social losses cost every day. If so, then the traffic problem must be resolved as soon as possible, along with other important problems. One must be happy and peaceful in the life of the city, and the centers of the city must be man - focused. This town needs attention. Its historical and natural beauty and the problems of the province, one of Turkey's unique cities, must be moved to parliament and its problems should have permanent solutions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition, we would like to ask that Parliament investigate the pollution of the Great Menderes Basin, which we offer, and determine the proposals for a solution be opened under the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Erzincan]] 5) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Manisa]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] 10) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Aydın]] [[Niğde]] 13) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 15) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Ankara]] [[Hatay]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 24) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 25) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Army]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Amasya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 31) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[Let's go.]] The Great Menderes is the largest river in Western Anatolia, and it flows to the Aegean Sea and its length is 560km long. ==Early life==Afyon is born in the criminal position near Dinar district of Afyon Province. Lightman and Kufi, who collect their tea, leave the Light Dam and cross the plains of Chirril, Çiril, Çal and Baklan and head north from the east of Çal, and flow in a deep bed towards Bekilli and South County. The Banaz tea, which comes from the baneman and is one of Menderes' largest arms, descends to the Plain of Sarayköy. It moves west, feeding on its sea lines of decay and Skypinar tea. Nazilli fed the plains of Aydın and Söke and completed its journey of 560km long into the Aegean Sea at the location of Söke County Dipburun. The total area of rain is 11.852 square kilometers. Above the basin are the plains of Cirril, Baklan, and Kaklik, the largest plains in Dinar, Sincan, the gazebo plains, and Denizli. In the middle part of the basin is Sarayköy, the plains of Tavas, and the Plains of Menderes the Great are in the lower part of the basin. The Great Plain of Menderes covers the plains of Aydın, Söke, Yenipazar, Koçarlı, Karpuzlu, Çerçek and China. The bottom part of the basin is Balat Plain. The Lake of Light, Karagöl, Buldan Yayyla Lake, Karakuyu Sazı, Bafa and the Lake of Azap, and the Great Menderes delta, form wetlands in the basin. The Great Menderes basin is home to different formations, such as sea, fresh water, and mountain. Having a basin with a variety of climate conditions brings rich biodiversity. The conservation zones in the basin are the Wishing Peninsula and the Great Menderes Delta National Park, Mount Honaz, Lake Bafa, Lake Bafa, Akdağ Nature Park, the Lake Lighted Lake Weaning Area, the Afyon Ark-Akdağ Wildlife Development Field, the Denizli Chivril-Akdağ Wildlife Development Field, the Karakuyu Sazi Sables' Wild Life Development Field, and the Müğla Snake Wild Life Development Field, and the Pamukkale Special Environment Area. The Great Menderes basin, one of Turkey's major agricultural potential areas in the region of the basin, covers vast plains starting from Denizli to the coast of the Aegean Sea. These plains produce cotton, vegetables, and fruits. The Great Menderes River is contaminated by domestic wastewaters from its settlements, industrial wastewaters from industrial companies, which have been contaminated by extreme, timeless and misuse. The discharge of technological, domestic and urban waste to the Great Menderes, which functioned as a waste receiver and carrier environment, has resulted in a number of decades of ecological balances in millions of years. In the provinces of Denizli, Uçe and Aydın, there are 20 kinds of industrial companies that have left the Great Menderes River without decontamination. The DSI basin statistics provide 165 municipalities in the Great Menderes River basin, with only six of which is a sewer network. The full extent of pollution in the Menderes basin is important to the sustainable agricultural economy and the environment to determine solution proposals. For these reasons, a parliamentary investigation is required. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In 1963, the Ankara Agreement was signed with the European Union, which began with its application on October 31st 1959, and on October 3, 2005, the EU's full accession process began on 3 October 2005, as part of its decision to join the EU as a result of our full membership in the 1999 EU State and Government Presidents Summit. In the past seven years, the expected developments have been unscheduled, and only one of the 33 topics that should have been closed in talks to achieve the goal of full membership has been closed, and there has been a lack in the political field as part of the EU Progress Report, which was announced on 10 October 2012, and there have been concerns that the reforms necessary for those living in our country could not be implemented in a strong way. For all these reasons, in order to monitor the full accession process with the EU, to take the necessary measures under the accepted report, to investigate the obstacles in the opening of chapters 23 and 24, to overcome these barriers, to determine in what areas and for what reasons the process has come to a halt, to determine areas that need urgent reform and to determine the frameworks of these reforms, with respect to the opening of the Constitution's Council of the Council of Turkey, under Articles 104 and 105. 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu İstanbul 3) Ramadan Kerim Özkan Burdur 11) Mustafa Serdar Soydan Çanakkale 19) Kadir Gökmen Öğüt İstanbul 21) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan Samsun 22) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu Kayseri 28) Ali Haydar Öner Isparta It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Thursday/12/2014 (today), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. On 22 April 2014, it was given by Mud MP Demir Çelik and his friends (5275 rows no. lu) has been suggested that the parliamentary research motion given to the Turkish Parliament to investigate what is the practice and practices of exclusionist, separatist and segregation for the disabled, especially in the entire social area, and what should be done to the disabled equal participation in social life, should be presented in the same joint joint session of the assembly's motion to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, before other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. Erol Dora, Mardin MP who has asked for a vote on the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0014par0274	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the basis of a motion to investigate the exclusionist, otherist and segregating practice and practices for the entire community, especially the textbooks. I salute the General Assembly. In addition to being excluded from education to health, transportation to business, economic and social areas, the disabled, largely deprived of democratic rights to participate in the social process and the most basic human rights, have remained the subject of charity activities that are focused on with conscience, as a result of the fact that the issue is not perceived as a social phenomenon. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTI government often shift social policies that should be developed within the framework of the social state principle for the problems of disabled individuals through indexed, superficial, populist and compassionate approaches to elections. Of course, we're going to base this on concrete examples, and we're going to continue by talking about the real problems facing our disabled children, our disabled citizens, and their families. Dear lawmakers, for example, a citizen diagnosed with severe disability in a related hospital report may be entitled to use care services according to the existing laws. This heavily disabled citizen can be placed in a nursing home and the state pays two minimum wage for the care of this citizen -- about two thousand dollars. When the same heavily disabled citizen is not sent to a home by his family and the family takes care of the disabled person, only one minimum wage is paid per month as a family care fee. We can clearly see that the state should pay the family $2,000 a month at today's value, while the state is openly taking out a thousand euros a month for the disabled family. Mr. President, good lawmakers, one of the problems facing our disabled citizens is the salary paid to our disabled citizens, who have lost 40 per cent and more workforce under Law 2022. A disabled citizen, who is paid once every three months and has an average salary of 250-300 euros a month, is unable to provide for his basic needs, much less for a living. The government mocks our disabled citizens by making three months' pay, which is equivalent to $300 a month, due to their body and mental health. Dear lawmakers, another problem area where our disabled children are exposed to our brothers is the educational system. The state is obliged to provide equal education for all its citizens under the Constitution, and as in many other areas, it does not fully fulfill its responsibility in this field. For example, the state pays only 3 sessions a week for private education and rehabilitation for disabled individuals. The family of a disabled individual is required to pay for the remaining sessions of education and rehabilitation services that the disabled person needs. Dear lawmakers, a session fee for private education and rehabilitation is around 60 TL. For example, suppose a disabled individual should receive this service for ten hours a week. The government covers three hours of this service per week, but the family's fee is 420 euros per week, and the monthly payment is around 1,700 euros. I'd like to ask the Minister of National Education, how many families can we afford at this level? Considering that education and rehabilitation processes for a disabled individual last almost a lifetime, it is not possible for families to meet those fees. Dear lawmakers, what do families do when they can't afford their child's education and rehabilitation fees? If you ask them, three sessions a week are required by the state, and they are unable to receive additional sessions that children need. Of course, the result is that either there is no progress in the development of a disabled individual or the development of a low-density education and treatment fee for a disabled individual, or this development is observed at very low levels. Dear lawmakers, another issue where disabled children are subject to discrimination in education is the special lower-class application. Children who are not disabled from elementary school have the opportunity to study in the same classrooms as their own age, while disabled children are forced to study in private sub-classes created in certain schools, with different age groups, regardless of the basis of age. The Ministry of National Education must give up this segregation policy for disabled children and address the problem of infrastructure, educators and co-educators in order for private lower classes to be created on the basis of age, such as other classes. Mr. President, our valuable lawmakers, our children with autism, also have different attributes among disabled individuals, so they form another group that needs unique training methods and environments, but within the warped education system of the Ministry of National Education, our children are also being wasted. There is no mention of the Department of National Education's practice to create a qualified infrastructure in terms of the specific educational environment and appropriate training staff for children with autism. Children with autism have not been able to go beyond some pilot apps to demonstrate class practice, and these children continue to be forced to train at different ages with barrier groups with different qualities in special lower classes, regardless of the authenticity of the obstacle situation. Dear lawmakers, the agreements signed in Turkey on the relationship between the human rights of disabled individuals are mostly superficial and populist, and the approach in the form of hand-holding is largely ongoing in terms of state perception. One of the most important areas of this issue is the textbooks, the main subject of our proposal. In the educational system, it is clear that the disabled have not been ignored or shown adequate sensitivity from school buildings to textbooks. One of the most obvious studies is the report by İstanbul Bilgi University's Sociology and Education Studies Application and Research Centre. 68 textbooks have been scanned as part of this study. According to the report, disability is usually discussed in books under the title "Our differences." In spite of their shortcomings, expressions of compassion are included, as is necessary to accept the differences of the disabled. The study emphasises that such statements are strengthening negative judicial patterns of disabled persons. Malfunction is treated as deficiency, sickness, and imperfection. The textbooks stress that they often need help for disabled persons who are not seen as normal individuals. Almost all of the texts and visuals in textbooks are depicted as disabled, unable to go out on their own, unable to cross the street, unable to work. Mr. President, good lawmakers, there is an urgent need for a look at the centre of the barriers imposed by state institutions and society to prevent disability from being a personal tragedy. People are not worth economic value or usefulness, but only because they mean something in terms of being human. This is inevitable for disabled individuals. It is necessary to investigate what is the practice and the practice of exclusive, otherist and segregating practices in the entire social area, especially in textbooks, and what needs to be done in order for our disabled citizens to participate equally in social life. In this context, I look forward to the support of all political parties with their group in parliament, and I salute the General Assembly with these feelings again.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0015par0290	Thank you. People's Democratic Party has asked for a statement against group proposal by İsmail Tamer, Kayseri MP. Here you go, Mr. Tamer.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0016par0294	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group against the motion by the People's Democratic Party to investigate the disabled. I salute you all. Looking at the last thirteen years, it is inevitable to see a significant improvement in the field of disability. Our disabled brothers, citizens, and relatives have been given jobs from education, social security, innovations, improvements in many areas. In particular, from 2002 to 2011, the first disabled law was adopted in our country in 2005, which was considered a revolution in the field of disability. Before that, there were no laws or regulations about the disabled, nothing. In addition to other relevant legislation on the implementation of Law on disabled persons number 5378, a law of some 1,500 articles was created. We became one of the first countries to sign the contract on 30/3/2007, considering the United Nations agreement on the disabled. The agreement was also adopted by the Council of Ministers' decision dated 27/05/2009. Such positive developments in the field of disability have been moved to the level of the Constitution in 2010, and a positive discrimination has also been brought to the disabled, with the amendment to Article 10 of the Constitution ruling that measures taken for the disabled do not violate the principle of equality. Our Ministry of Family and Social Policy has taken a lot of new measures, and in 2012, the Committee for Emergency Rights Experts, which monitors international cooperation in the field of disability and implementing the Council of Europe's Emergency Action Plan, has begun to be represented at the level of Deputy Minister. In 2013, the laws of the United Nations Convention on Emergency Rights, which we are on, and in various human rights documents, were also presented as an expression of how much we value them by changing the terms of all the laws of the United Nations by changing the expression of the expression of the apology, the expression of the apology, and the expression of the expression of how much we value them. Along with the Watch and Evaluation Board, the Prime Minister's General Assembly was published in the Official Gazette on July 19, 2013. The disability rights monitoring and evaluation boards have been established, and they work each semester to identify and take precautions about the defects related to the disabled. In 2014, the United Nations Convention on Personal Rights of disabled persons was made in line with the United Nations Convention on Human Rights, particularly with a social and social-based view from the medical point of view in the field of those who are disabled, especially in the last decade. Again, when we look at employment, we've made a lot of changes in employment with the disabled. We've created a public job for the disabled. In 2010 and after, we left the Central Management Budget Act and publicly disabled employment as exceptions, excluding the staff restrictions. Paramedics were allowed not to be given night shifts and to determine different periods of overtime and rest for disabled officers. A lot has been done in the private sector. Again, thanks to our Family Ministry, we are the first to begin a separate central exam for the disabled by changing the State Officers' Law for public employment. We took the first central exam in 2012, where we took the central placement test, which included rules for the obstacle groups. More than 60,000 disabled citizens participated in the examination, and on 29 April 2012 the test took place at the 41,756 test building, where 41,756 personnel were assigned to the 81 district center. In two years, nearly 13,000 disabled persons have been appointed as new officers with the Poor Officer's Choice Test and the lottery system. Thus, in 2002, only 5,777 disabled people worked as an officer in the disability quota, while 34,088 disabled citizens were now placed as officers at a certain workplace. With one test, it could be placed as much as a ten-year placement. These increases, as we all know, exceed almost 500 percent, were achieved at a time when there were economic crises in the world, which means a lot, dear friends. In 2014, he and his wife and their first-degree blood relatives were also taken into account by the request for a replacement from the disability situation of disabled officers. A lot of changes have been made in the private sector. In particular, the number of jobs employed within a year in the public sector increased to 10,883 in 2002 and 34,476 in 2013. On the other hand, we have found 107,392 in the number of disabled people responsible for working in the private sector, and we have managed to get them to hire 81,478. One of the most important things we've done is to develop the Protected Business Projects. We have prepared and submitted the Protected Business Guide to provide direction for non-governmental organisations that will contribute to disabled employment through protected business projects. We made sure that the regulation on workplaces was especially published in the Official Gazette on 26 November 2013. In order for disabled individuals to stand on their own two feet, we have collaborated with the COSGEB. We have established new projects, Project Engel. Dear friends, we have taken care of home care, and many of our disabled brothers and sisters, who are not available at home, have been taken care of in a new system. Again, programs were prepared for them by collaborating with the TRT. In addition, we removed the problems of the mothers who said, "Who will care for the disabled after we die?" In 2002, we served 1,843 disabled people in 21 care and rehabilitation centres, and in October, 165 centers, 5. We must have pulled it out by 747. These are very important developments. We continue to work for private day care centres for disabled individuals in need of care. We've opened the Houses of Hope. Again, we've established accessibility. Of course, it may be difficult to express many of the services that we have done here because time is short, but again, we have provided the sign language interpreter, the Obstructed I.T. Projects, the Third Eye and the Third Ear projects; again, by making them free of charge of information. We've done a lot of training. In 2006, the number of students studying at private education and rehabilitation centres increased to 275,886. In 2004-05, we provided a transport service for 6,901 disabled students and raised it to 7 stories today, up to 46,000. The source for free transport was increased to 95 million TL in 2004, especially in 2013. I'm running out of time, but I'd like to point out that impotence... is a social government project, and our government can do it the best way we can. You especially need to see the disabled above politics. We will continue to reach out to all our disabled brothers and sisters, and we will take everything that is missing very seriously and reach out to our disabled brothers and sisters. In these feelings and thoughts, I express that we do not agree with the views of the People's Democratic Party, and I give you all my regards and greetings. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0017par0311	Thank you. The People's Democratic Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Muharrem Iş, Erzincan MP. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0018par0315	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the HDP Group's motion to investigate what needs to be done with the equal participation of the disabled in social life. I salute the High Council and all of you. Of course, first you have to look at this: that the 10th article of our Anasaya regarding the disabled will not violate the principle of equality; and the eighth joke of the Article 42 of the Constitution shall take measures to make those in need of special education useful to the community because of their condition. In Article 49 of the Constitution, the same work was given in the form of the rights and homework of all. In the second article of Article 50 of the Constitution, in the second article of Article 70 of the Constitution, Article 5378 of the Law on the disabled cannot be prevented from receiving education for any reason. It provides equal education for disabled children, young people and adults, including special circumstances and differences, integrated environments and non-impaired ones. Our constitution has secured them, but unfortunately, we also see that there are some problems. We also think that these things need to be overcome. Of course, studies have shown that in childhood and youth, disability is less common, and in old age, it has increased. According to a study conducted by the head of the disabled administration, 12.29 per cent of Turkey's population is disabled. 9.7 per cent have been identified as having continued diseases, while 2.8 per cent have been identified as orthopedic, visual, hearing, language, and speech. It is seen that the area of the most disabled is the Marmara region -- depending on the density of the population -- is seen. Most disabled are seen to be married, 37.7% are single, and 1.6% are divorced. Of course, the further analysis of the research shows that fewer encounters in children and young people are related to protecting them, but there is also evidence that there are different birth defects. It's seen growing as well as aging. Analysis showed that some of the disabled have two or more problems. According to this, 5.5 per cent of the disabled are blind, 3.2 per cent deaf, 8.4 per cent talking, 6.6 per cent mentally disabled. At the same time, 34 percent of those with hearing barriers were found to have a speech disability. 27 per cent of those with speech barriers have also been identified as mentally disabled. The percentage of illiterates is higher than about three times the general population, according to people who can read and write. The education of 84.2% of disabled persons has been determined to be primary school level. 68% say there is no arrangement for the disabled in their neighborhood. According to the study, 68 per cent of disabled individuals have found that there is no regulation associated with the obstacle to their environment. Only 3.1 per cent of the speakers, 3 per cent of the disabled, 2.6 per cent of the visually impaired, 2.3 per cent of the deaf, say that an environment suitable for the disabled in the building, street, street, and road. 63.9% of the respondents say that the mentally disabled are 45.9% of the speakers are unable to work. The percentage of people who think the visually impaired can't work is 15.4 percent. 55.7 per cent of disabled persons use health care, while only 12.27 per cent report use of education, 5.9 per cent of care and rehabilitation services. Again, 75.7 per cent of the deaf, 70.3 per cent of the visually impaired, 61.2 per cent of the disabled, 54.5 per cent of the disabled can act on their own when considering the manner in which disabled individuals perform their daily activities according to the type of obstacle. We see that the group, which is most limited to independent movement on its own, is created by the mentally disabled. In carrying out their daily activities, those who are fully dependent on one another say that they are most disturbed by the physical conditions of the workplace, that there is no regulation at workplaces. In the course of their daily activities, 46.4 percent of anyone who's half dependent on another has been identified. 24.3 per cent of those who are able to function independently have also stated that the physical conditions at work are not appropriate. Another important situation: especially our children with autism, who have been coming back on the media lately. In recent years, after diabetes, cancer, and AIDS disease, autism has been found to be more common than most diseases. For this reason, the United Nations has especially taken special interest in autism and has declared April 2nd as the Day of Autism Awareness all over the world. Of course, the most important thing in autism is that the diagnosis is premature. It has also been noted that when diagnosed immediately, the work on them is much better. The most important need for autistic individuals today is, as I just said, early detection and treatment. If early diagnosis and treatment are performed, it has been determined that it is easier and more appropriate for these children to be brought into society. Of course, it has also been scientifically shown that in the United States, the intensive training period of children with autism is said to be at least forty hours a week in individual and group. It has been determined that children who have been trained in this way have been brought into society, and are even useful to society, like normal people. However, we do know that there are not enough measures taken in our country. I said that there was intensive education in developed countries in this field. In our country, this is more than two sessions per week, and it is inadequate, but only 10 per cent can receive education. There's a lot of trouble in schools. When we look at the world prevalence of autism, according to DSM-IV (DSM) found in the United States, one of every 48 boys was born with autism. Unfortunately, in our country, there's not a full disclosure, but we also say that the work should be done and that it should be taken seriously. In our country right now, according to the National Ministry of Education, it is said to be known and known only at 1/150. It's said to be about -- it's not exactly clear -- between 450 and 500,000. Turkey has been determined that only 2.114 children with autism can receive education. I just told you how many there are. We think the Ministry of National Education should focus more on this particular issue, more on it. Of course, our universities need to be directed at these matters. We find that our universities are undergraduate, and they are of little benefit to the community. When the situation is learned in national education schools, we hear from news that school principals and school administrators have not taken these students to class and have not registered for them, especially in the media lately. In fact, it's said to go all the way to the Supreme Court. Of course, the most important thing for the disabled is that our municipalities prepare the best environment for the disabled. There was a law on vehicles, but it's important to say that the postponement of this law upsets the disabled. Dear lawmakers, of course, we have to take care of our disabled, we have to protect them, but there are those who are unable to be treated, who are unable to be taken care of, who are mentally impaired, who have rented their brains, who are more upset by the people in society. If I say one of them is an artist, it would be rude to the artists, and if I said the singer, it would be rude to the singer, and it would be rude to me to say his name. That's why you know who he is. This guy who rented his brain came out in the days before, and he started saying things on TV, which in his own way smelled like sucking up to him. He's trying to do something on his own. We've seen this before. There was drinking in the mosque. We gossiped about it, and then -- I'm sorry -- I was a jerk. We saw those who said, "I'm sorry." They beat her up. We also saw those who said, "I'm sorry." This also began to appear especially in the media. The mother of the President, who was told to go out and go to concerts, especially in public, who caused major injuries, who hurt almost everyone who had a conscience, who made everyone cry -- except for those who booed in the squares -- has no right to lie and slander the mother of Berkin Javan, to make it look legitimate, because she has no right to put him in any category in this society, because she has no right to put him in any category. I won't let him do that just because he's going to suck up to me, because he's going to be a dishwasher. He's mentally challenged, so he's in a room that rents out his brain. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0019par0331	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0020par0332	It does not suit you, nor does it suit you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0018par0333	It looks good. It looks good.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0020par0334	It's not like you to talk about a person who isn't here.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0021par0335	The Democratic Party of Rights has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0022par0337	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the advice of the HDP group. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Our dear Ismail Tamer, our Kayseri MP, has made statements regarding the disabled and the positive arrangements made by the EC PARTY governments regarding the disabled. I agree with the explanations exactly. Meeting the needs and demands of our disabled citizens, the main element of society, is one of the priorities of our governments, which act on the principle of the social state. We rejected the primitive understanding that left our disabled brothers and sisters out of the community and imprisoned them in the house, and carried out the principle of positive discrimination for them with a referendum on September 12, 2010. By securing this principle with the Constitution, we have implemented a mental revolution and a legal revolution in this area. We have implemented innovations in transport, communication, especially in housing, education, health, so that disabled people can live their social and economic lives easier. This was the period when all disabled children needed free access to private education and rehabilitation centres. We supported them with a support project for the disabled. In the time of our governments -- so far -- we have provided employment for more than 1,000 disabled teachers. We provided early retirement for disabled mothers and disabled employees. Today we have developed projects to facilitate the lives of disabled citizens. Our goal is Turkey, free of the sense of social exclusion of the disabled. We will take great steps together to make the lives of disabled brothers and sisters easier by holding hands with our political parties, our NGOs. I'm also celebrating December 3rd, the Day of the disabled, hoping to cause increased sensitivity to our disabled citizens, one of the most sensitive issues in our society. Let us not forget that everyone who is not disabled is a disabled candidate, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0023par0343	Thank you. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the advisory council on Thursday (December 4th 2014), there is no consensus among political party groups, so I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On 2 December 2014, the parliamentary research motion issued by Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır, which we gave to the head of the TBMM with 2014/2532 points, was proposed on Thursday (December 4th 2014) to be read in the General Assembly on Thursday (now) to meet the talks in order to investigate the issues of Mersin province and determine the measures that need to be taken. Thank you. Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0024par0361	I'd like to make a statement right away. Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, our Minister of National Defense, is here, and I'd like to tell him something on the subject. You know, the subject of paying military service has been shared with the public; Mr. Davutoglu said it at the group meeting. Sir, we've been getting calls from a lot of people, and it's said, "He's going to pay the money, he's going to get rid of the army, and people like us, they're going to go to the army. Okay, let's go, there's no problem with that, but at least when we're college students, we want the loans we were given to us now to be removed from our military service. They have these demands. I'll pass it on to your guests. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0023par0366	The nationalist Movement Party has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal Mehmet Shandır, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0025par0369	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Of course, our Turkey has many problems, but it is my duty to express to you here the problems of Mersin, which I am honored to be a MP. Dear MPs, you know Mersin. Mersin is the center of wealth and beauty, as I like to call it, where we have 1,700,000 people living on the coast of Turkey's southern Mediterranean seaboards, which is 15,620 square kilometers [320 km] of beach, with 108km of beaches. But the province of Mersin has many problems that don't really suit Mersin, that don't suit Turkey, that we have a hard time expressing. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to make this brief. Every province has a problem, our Turkey has a problem. Mersin has a few problems that are different from these, so I'm going to express them. But as a result, the AKP, which has completed 12 years, punishes the people of Mersin at the end of the 12 years, believe me, the people of Mersin are being persecuted. I'll tell you something more private, with the government's applications, our people who voted for the Justice and Development Party in Mersin are being punished, the MPs representing them are being punished. I praise my friends, but there are one or two things that we live in Mersin, and you will agree when I present them. Dear friends, Mersin is ranked sixth in the list of cities that pay taxes on Turkey's budget and contribute. He ranked sixth in Turkey's 81st province, but he ranked 26th in the central budget. It's a result, it's a punishment. The services of the AKP's government, which has completed its 12 years, have brought Mersin to the 26th place of the 81 provinces in Turkey, which they have given to the people of Mersin. Dear friends, I'll tell you one or two problems that are different from common problems. See, the main problem with Mersin is that the promises to Mersin have not been fulfilled. On 11 January 2004, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said at a meeting that Mersin would be central to the beginning of the 2nd tourist move. So we're going to start the new movement of Turkish tourism, and we're going to start the Tarsus Tourism Zone Project, he said. When? 2004. We'll even make it to the 2007 tourist season, he said. It was a very valuable investment that was capable of 12,000 beds, which was actually going to open Mersin to international tourism, but it's been seven years since 2007, and now we've come to the conclusion that this Tarosian-winner tourist complex has been canceled. Thus the dream of Mersin to become the center of a new move in tourism ended. On the other hand, the MPs, a elected minister of our province, said such big things, that he would give bread to 10,000 people, serve his agriculture, serve his exports, and they all became zero. Why? The people of Mersin need an explanation. This is punishment for a Mersin. Another issue: An airport was to be built between Mersin and Adana. There were ceremonies, we attended ceremonies, there were groundbreaking ceremonies, and again the minister spoke big words, and so did the MPs. As a result, Çukurova Airport -- the construction buildings are being taken away soon -- was supposed to be raised to the Mediterranean Games in 2013, and the contractor was promised this, but the pickax hasn't been struck yet. Now, if two major projects in one province, two major investments end like this, then the government, the political government, has at least one apology to the people of Mersin. I repeat: AKP power punishes 1,700,000 of our people living in Mersin, who have migrated from every part of our country and sought their livelihood, and even where there is a Turk living in the world -- at the end of his 12-year rule -- as a sentence of judgment. What's the reason? They have to tell us why. Another thing: Look, as a result of the fact that the airport hadn't been built, the tourism project had been cancelled, the Mersin farmer today is devastated. Perhaps he'll speak after me, Mr. AKP MP, tell the narcissist himself. How much are we selling tangerines for today, oranges? Did we sell it? It's in the branch. It's in the lemon branch. As I was coming in, I asked the President of Silifke Agriculture: What percentage of the crop has been collected, sold, assessed? Between 30 and 40 percent, the rest of it. Dear friends, if he eats the rain, that lemon, that orange, that tangerine, he doesn't go to exports anymore, he dies. Now, this is where I express a common demand for farmers, the heads of the agricultural chamber: at least let our debt to banks be instaled, restructured, we live in a state of affluence. In fact, they live every year. You had a dream, we would do airports, we would declare tourism, tourists would come, our products would come, we would export our products from this airport. We gave up, we gave up, but at the end of this deception and deception, the citizens who voted for this power have at least one apology, one apology. There's another thing: look, there's a 200-mile beach on the coast of Mersin. Antalya's full, Mudla's full, Izmir's full, we need a new space for tourism, but we're going to build a nuclear plant on these pristine beaches now. Dear friends, this isn't a nuclear power plant; this is giving Russia a base on the Mediterranean coast, and we're allocated to four dark Russians. I don't think this plant will be built either. The other thing: can't you see anymore? Big countries build this heavy industry in other countries and sell it to the world. The Russians will build a plant here, sell their energy and electricity to Turkey. Not only that, but 15 thermal power plants are being planned. Lawmakers elected from the Justice and Development Party have to explain it, object to it. There's no agriculture or tourism under that thermal plant. Is there tourism under the cement factory built in the Akdere district of Silifke? You're building a cement factory. I thought you were the great country, the great state. Why don't you think about building the cement factory in other geographys and bringing its product here, like cement on our paradise shores, like marble management, or mining... Dear lawmakers, today is December 4th, Miners Day, actually the miners' day of mourning. Look, you will soon live in Mersin. If the Mersin farmer gives up production, he will be sentenced to death in a field he knows nothing about. It's this government's failure to keep its promises. Therefore, I demand that this matter be discussed, evaluated, and respected. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0026par0385	Thank you. The nationalist Movement Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0027par0388	Mr. President, dear friends, we're not entirely against the nationalist movement group's proposal, we've made very good points, but there are issues that we'd like to discuss with our MPs. First of all, we need to say that the criticism of the implementation of the Justice and Development Party for 12 years is justified, that all economic indicators in this regard confirm these criticisms between the government's programs and their commitments, but perhaps it's appropriate that we point to a fundamental reason for the discussion to be enlightened. In a way, the Justice and Development Party actually keeps its promise because of its economic programme. In accordance with the needs of the Neoliberal economy, because it has pledged to manage economics in accordance with global market movements, the two main features of general neoliberal economics, the first is the destruction of agriculture, and the second is the echo of industrialisation practices in Mersin. Mersin is no longer one of Turkey's largest industrial cities, when he is one of the workers' centres. These are the result of neoliberal economic practices, which began with Ozal, which the AKP carried out with great ambition. I mean, it's not profitable to build an industry for Mersin anymore. Agriculture is not profitable. In terms of rationalities of capital movements, Mersin is not a new capital investment area within the Justice and Development Party's economic goals. Of course, since politics can't always be done without a promise, there is some kind of clientism in Turkey, so I'll vote for you, and what will you give me? There are promises that can't be kept because it's a negotiation, but there's a complete consistency between economic determinism and what AKP did not do in Mersin. As a precaution, of course, we need to suggest: First, it is very important to fight across Turkey for a planned economy; and second, it is very important for local governments to be authorized to save resources and decisions for investments in their own cities. If the local government of Mersin were an autonomous, democratic municipality, it would not be at the mercy of the Justice and Development Party, but would not have to discuss whether the Justice and Development Party would be neglected in its central resource distribution plans. Mersin, as they say, is not really where he should be and where he should be today in Turkey, with his multicultural structure, historical riches, natural wealth, long beach, and a wide variety of biodiversity. As a matter of fact, no city is where or where it should be, but there's a plus for Mersin. But for all these criticisms, I would also like to discuss with our friends from the MHP: A new problem has been added between the problems of Mersin, this is Mersin Metropolitan City. As a result of the recent local elections, the nationalist Movement Party candidate Mersin was mayor of Metropolitan City by 32.07 per cent. The Republican People's Party received 28 per cent of the vote, 27 per cent of the AKP, and 9.8 per cent of the HDP. Now, therefore, the mayor of the National Movement Party manages a city where the majority of those who don't vote for him are essentially the majority. However, there has been a problem with employment among Mersin's problems since he took charge of this city. 2,000 workers have been fired from their jobs in subcontractors in the Metropolitan Municipality. These workers came to the House last week, they went to parties, everyone knows about it. However, there is no re-employment of these workers. There was a well-functioning parkomat system in Mersin, so the parkomat system, which limited the local invasion of street lengths to the payment of the people who invaded the street, was thus removed, and the workers who worked in these parkomats were fired from their jobs. Thus, after the capture of the mayor's office by the MHP in Mersin, we faced the problem of unemployed workers working in a local government in Mersin. The second issue became a major problem in Mersin. The new bus station, built in place of the old bus station, was auctioned at prices so high that none of the businesses who worked in the old bus station had entered the tender at this bus station, and it's still in a bad state. There's been a very limited number of rentals in all the tenders that have been opened. So they took back the charges they had invested. Because the assumption here is that it's clearly said that the old autogar was basically under the control of Kurdish businesses, and there was some sort of ganging here, so prices were raised so there wouldn't be room for them in the new bus station. But since Mersin doesn't have a certain supply of transportation, since there's no tradesmen to rent the office at these prices, the bus station stands at battal, the old bus station is running, everyone's nervous and the prices are unbelievable. Ankara, İstanbul, Eskişehir, Antalya bus stations have been tendered at 3-4 times the price. That's a problem right there. Furthermore, Mr. Metropolitan Mayor, a Kurdish ban has carried the ban on languages other than Turkish with him to municipal businesses. At weddings at municipal facilities, songs and songs in different languages from Turkish were banned from the municipal orchestras, while other orchestras from the municipality were banned from performing music by entering municipal facilities. In their own language, Mersin Metropolitan Municipality has refused to provide public services to people who have a large number of groups of Turks, Kurds, Arabs, and other origins, who live in a multicultural relationship of long -- if they play Turkish and don't speak -- to maintain their most basic social relations, wedding, holiday relations. That's not acceptable. But, of course, not only the local municipality, but the local representative of the central administration, the governorship, has now been unable to perform public services because the Mediterranean municipality has refused to impose co-chair practices on protocols, to sign co-mayors' protocols, to sign official correspondence. In fact, it's not natural for the co-chair system to settle in local governments after it's established in politics. It's very bad that the central administration should be blocking this when it should be opening its way. Of course, the central leadership of the Justice and Development Party also does not miss the urban transformation mace over the city. The case has yet to be put to a halt in the district administration court, but this issue of urban transformation remains a very serious issue. I don't even see the point of the nuclear power plant, because it's become a national issue. The insistence of a nuclear plant by the Justice and Development Party on Mersin is actually preventing Mersin from becoming an open city of nature and tourism, both for the people of Mersin and for their own programme. People of Mersin, but he will overcome all this. We think we're going to settle this in the next election. I salute you all with love and respect. I also wish you'd vote yes to the motion.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit01spe0028par0400	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0028par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 23rd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The National Movement Party Group has now asked for a statement on the proposal and on behalf of Mersin MP Aytug Thrower. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0029par0005	Mr. President, after Ertugrul Kürklül's speech, we have been given a say.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0028par0006	Just a second, let's make a promise to Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0030par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, I have made a promise to address Mersin's problems and to tell you about our solution proposals. I salute the MPs who have seen the scientific facts and will vote with their conscience and free will in accordance with these facts. My dear friends, which of the dozens of problems of Mersin will you place in the first place? We will place the nuclear power plant in the first place, like all the people of Mersin. If I were to sort out other problems, we'd put unemployment at number two. Look, unemployment is the number one problem all over Turkey, and even the unemployed are taking walks against the nuclear power plant, even though Mersin is broke from unemployment. Although they were promised a job, working at a nuclear plant is dishonorable. They refuse to accept the work and do not want the nuclear plant for Mersin. I put the farmers' problems in the third place, especially our producers of citrus, peppers, eggplants, and greenhouses crying blood in Mersin. I'll deal with this as much as I can. After that, I'll put the tradesman's problems in. In particular, we need to discuss the tradesman's problems that deepened and are vital after the wave of migration from Syria. Winter has come, we can no longer breathe air pollution in the center of Mersin. I'll put air pollution and the health problems that this is going to bring back into the most important of problems. Later, I will place our brothers and sisters who have been laid off at the Metropolitan Municipality at 1,600, the problems of the workers who have been laid off after the New Year's Eve, two thousand. If you say, "What problems do you have left?" Unfortunately, Mersin began to be remembered for corruption in your transition, and I put the problem of corruption in customs; I put the problem of illegal meat, the GDO-based product problem; and in the Mediterranean Games, I tell you how you corrupt those innocent sports activities, and how the Court put it in the eyes of the people. If you say another problem, I'll place corruption on amateur sports clubs. What else is wrong with you? I count the laid-off parkomat workers; I put the problems of workers who have no sins, who have started work eagerly, but who have been rescinded after the city has changed. I'll set the road to Mersin-Antalia, where you promised you'd put the problems of the people working between Mersin and Antalya, on the road you've built or on the road you've tried to build, on the road you're trying to build. I'll put in the tourist zone where you promised the Cinnamon-winner to do it and you never did it, because our tourists are starting to cry blood. I'll put in Çukurova Airport. You promised. I remind you of the days when he received such an airport, as if he were the prime minister of the nation's era. Just east of Mersin, in the Kazanlı region, I put how you pour sulfuric acid on people's heads and the problem with the sulfuric acid factory. I'll put together the problems that have become our very symbol of the Tefiq Secret Gür Stadium and how to make the Tefik Secret Gür Stadium a mall and give birth to it. I just counted the headlines, I'm halfway out of time. Now, in the remaining time, I would like to shout out to you that the nuclear power plant that you want to do, particularly in spite of Akkuyu, is a means of murder, and if you have to say yes to this murder, you will be partners. Look, my dear friends, I'd especially like to address the MPs of the Justice and Development Party, and I'd like to address our people. Lawmakers from other parties are already coming out here and saying they're against the nuclear power plant, but I'm going to tell you how the government, which came out of the Justice and Development Party, is going to put you in a position that you can't account for both in this world and in the next. So, as lawmakers, don't use us as part of this dirty business, and don't use us as part of this dirty business. You should say, "If you're a partner, precious AKP MPs, then you won't be able to answer for this in this world or in the next." But if you continue to remain silent, in the sense of silence, I will shout that you are or will be partners in this work. If you're part of this, the people of Mersin will never build this nuclear power plant on the floor by building a wall of meat. Why? The people of Mersin are honorable. In the future, they're even willing to risk their own deaths so they don't have to let their children and grandchildren die of cancer. Dear friends, just three days ago, just three days ago, the Department of Environment and Urbanism CED gave a positive report for the nuclear power plant planned to be built in Mersin, and in human history, the Department of Environment and Urbanism has always earned a natural killer title. In fact, he committed this crime knowing that people would die of cancer, not just of nature. Moreover, the CED report was given to him as a gesture during the visit of Russia's President Putin. So the people of Mersin were sacrificed to a gesture. Immediately after the gesture was heard that Russia would reduce gas prices, residents of Mersin naturally began to express that this CED report was a bribe for various negotiations with Russia. Look at what you've become in the eyes of the people of Mersin. In order to negotiate with Russia, you submitted a CED report that should never be given. It's December 1, 2014. So, when did you post it on your website? You published it on December 3, 2014. So while Putin was here, you were too early to make a gesture to him, and someone said, "Mr. Putin, good luck, we approved the CED report. But since the transactions haven't been completed, you couldn't even post it on the website. But two days later, you officially started publishing. Look, guys, strategically, the AKP's Mersin MPs have never been able to come out here and defend the nuclear plant. I'll listen carefully to what my dear friend, who is about to come, will defend it, and I'll take the minutes of the House, and I'll tell them all about what he said in Mersin. If my dear AKP MP brother defends the nuclear power plant here, then I will tell the people of Mersin, but you will see that he cannot defend it. He'll try to explain to you more about what they're trying to do without even mentioning the other problems of Mersin, but I have a request from you lawmakers, which may not be spoken of on the stand, but please, backstage, for a cup of tea with all the AKP MPs of Mersin, and is this really the Aytuğ Horseman telling them the truth? Ask the people of Mersin if they really don't want this plant. I'm sure all four of your MPs will say, "Yes, the people of Mersin don't want the nuclear plant." Why doesn't he want to? Do you know what my friends will say? Because he will tell you that our people: the nuclear power plant is unnecessary. With renewable energy sources, we can provide you with energy. It'll tell you that the nuclear power plant is unnecessary because it's not clean energy, it's polluting the environment, it's harmful to health. Because the nuclear power plant is unnecessary, it's expensive because it's going to increase external dependency. Because just five days ago, just as you've been negotiating it, there's been a new nuclear plant accident in Russia with Ukraine. I mean, they say God doesn't have a stick, but he does. Look, there's been a new nuclear plant accident in Ukraine during the time when you and Russia were doing business with the CED report and we were going after Mersin, and if you don't see this, I'll tell you what, I'll give up. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0031par0031	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Chancer, you have a request for a statement.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0032par0033	Mr. President, after my speech, Mr. Ertugrul Kürkcu has made false statements regarding the Mersin Metropolitan Municipality, which a friend of our party represents. You have to answer for these.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0031par0034	I promise you two minutes because of the bullying. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0032par0038	Dear MPs, our goal was to discuss Mersin's problems, and it's really necessary, and I thank every friend who serves this purpose, but we can never accept the name of Mersin Metropolitan Municipality as a problem. It's only been eight or nine months in a service effort, and I don't think it's really Mr. Furkcü. The Mediterranean City has been elected by what percentage of votes, and let him come and tell you himself. Dear friends, the Mayor of Mersin Metropolitan, let's rule together, we'll raise Mersin. He's on his way and he's on his way. There is now a request for a job that exceeds 60,000, 60,000 people. The number of people they've taken so far is about a thousand people. So MHP agencies are also commenting on Mersin Metropolitan Municipality as to why you are not hiring? The citizens he laid off are subcontractors. So this is a service handover. It's not right to say there's discrimination at this point, it's not right. The term "Kurdish operator" is not true, dear friends. I mean, it's no one's right to be discriminated against and accuse the city of that. It's not their place. It is not right to say that music has not been broadcast in languages other than Turkish. Go, every song is sung in every language in Mersin's casinos. It's not fair to blame the city on that. Co-chair management is not in the law of local governments. So, if it's the state of law, you have to obey the law. It is not right to accuse Mersin Metropolitan Municipality of removing 700-800 people from the municipality after a 15-year CHP municipality. Today at the city hall, most of the people who work at least half... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...more are Republicans. Therefore, as the problem of Mersin Metropolitan Municipality, I do not find it right to be called the problem of Mersin, I do not deserve it, I offer respects.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0033par0043	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0034par0044	Mr. President, he needs a fix. I didn't say that no one in Mersin can perform any music other than Turkish. I didn't say that, I said, "Mersin Municipality has forbidden the orchestras who receive their salary in cultural centers and areas other than Turkish." And that's true. Therefore, the people, of course, make their own music, where they are, at their wedding, at their feast, at their festival, the Arab, the Kurdish, the Turkmen, but the municipality prevents this public service. That's what I'm saying, and no one can prove otherwise because the mayor has an explanation. In fact, it's the same time that the police went and interfered with the weddings between the neighborhoods, but they weren't raised so the city wouldn't get nervous. I wanted this on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0035par0047	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0036par0048	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0035par0049	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Shandır has taunted the People's Party's Party (CHP) by saying that half the employees are still CHP people, although a thousand workers have been removed after the administration of the CHP's municipality. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0036par0050	He just wanted to tell me how many people worked. No hard feelings, but I promise you, no hard feelings. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0035par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, Mersin Metropolitan Municipality has been ruled by the Republican People's Party for 15 years. I don't know how many CHP people, how many MPs, how many AKP people he worked in that municipality, and I don't need to know. However, the following words of Mr. Shandır are important: After the change of the municipality, he stated that a thousand new workers were hired here. That means at least a thousand people have been removed. We know that 1,600 workers have been removed, and in the new era, around 2,000 workers will be taken out after Christmas, that's what the numbers tell us. If these workers were unnecessary, why did you rehire a thousand people, Mr. Shandir? If you took it all out, you shouldn't have replaced it. But you're saying that this is a handover, the subcontractor has been removed. He worked at the cemetery. Is it temporary? They worked in parks and gardens. Is it temporary? Sir, they were in the cleanup business. The work is neither temporary nor the worker is temporary. The workers who worked here were only after their bread for minimum wage, and they were interested in bringing home bread, no matter what party they belonged to. I mean, would a man who's paid 800-900 lira have a problem with a party? Everyone's chasing their bread. So it's a shame to run a subcontractor anyway, it's a labor exploitation, and this system must be launched immediately, but it's a much greater shame to take off one subcontractor and replace it with another subcontractor until it does. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0037par0057	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement from my position.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0038par0058	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0037par0061	Mr. President, every friend of ours here knows that municipalities provide services through service. In short, this is what we refer to as the "tashion worker." Otherwise, those services are done anyway. Many services have been available in Mersin since previous times through subcontractors. The second thing is, when Mersin Metropolitan turns into Mersin, I don't know how many more people, 700-800, are being taken, and I don't know how many, but they are the workers of subcontractors who have been taken out of service. We'd all like it never to be removed, we don't want anyone to have their bread taken away, but when another firm won the tender, the workers at that firm were forced out of work, otherwise there's no partying, no discrimination. I'd like to put that on the record.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0039par0064	Thank you. The nationalist Movement Party has asked to speak against the group's proposal Ahmet Tofik Uzıl, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0040par0071	Mr. President, in order to investigate the problems of Mersin Province and to determine the measures that need to be taken, Mr. President, I have made a pledge to Mehmet Shandir, the MP of the National Movement Party of Mersin, and to welcome you all with his friends' research proposal. I'd like to give Mehmet Shandır, who blames us for the fact that he has spoken incriminating, promising words to the MPs of Mersin in particular in the motion, some information about the tourism area. Of course, Mersin Tarsus's Cultural and Tourism Protection Development Zone dates back to 1997. On December 31, 2004, the Council of Ministers' decision to replace Mersin Tarsus as the Cultural and Tourism Protection and Development Zone. Of course, some friends who think that they're environmentalists, as always, until they're assigned to five firms in 2009, are suing for the idea that the coin birds will be destroyed. In 2009, five companies receive allocations. The companies that received these allocations would start construction within three years. We did the 5km of the road between D-400 and the tourism zone. The 10km road was delayed due to nationalization. There's still a process of publicisation going on right now. Of course, you say that these investments were delayed, that Mersin had been punished by the AK PARTI government, but a lawyer who did all these nationalisations, who had done politics at the Republican People's Party, and who was nominated, is taking the lead. He's collected power of attorney from citizens for this adoption, and the cases are under way.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0041par0074	A lawyer can't do publicization!
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0040par0075	We, the government, have drawn energy transfer lines to the tourism zone. It's a tender for the natural gas line. The mansap rehabilitation of the Berdan River was completed by the DSI. As regional lawmakers and investors, we met in May 2013. We also made a commitment to the firm's owners, especially in July 2013, to laying the foundation of the administrative building in this tourist area, and to the launch of tourism facilities in December 2013. The firms, of course, demanded that these allocations be frozen between 13 October 2010 and 18 December 2012 and 26 September 2013, 16 December 2013. During that time, allocations were frozen, construction times weren't run, and companies didn't charge for use. But at the point where one firm was assigned -- which ended on January 2, 2015 -- four other firms were cancelled. It was canceled because they didn't invest because they had completed three years of construction. As a government, we don't have such punishment as a party, we have problems with companies. Again, let me give you some information about Çukurova Airport. The Supreme Planning Board's 4/3/2011 decision to build the construction of Çukurova Airport, which will be built in Kargülı districts between Adana-Mersin districts, has been authorized by the General Directorate of State Airports, with the decision of the High Planning Board, and T-5. The organisation, which was authorized for the tender by the Supreme Planning Board's decision, was adopted on August 22, 2011, under which the tender was announced on the basis of the general provisions in the Council of Ministers' decree 2011/1807, which determines the implementation and basis of the Law 3996 and its extensions. The company received the tender for nine years and ten months and ten days in exchange for the right to operate. The tender for the tender began on 3 March 2013. The production period is 36 months.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0042par0079	In May, the foundation was laid.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0040par0080	Of course, the decision made by the High Planning Board and some delays in reviewing the duration of the construction. As of February 2014, the total spending was reported as 26m euros, according to the company's notification that the total investment of this airport was 357m euros. The deadline is March 7, 2016. The company is following a course behind the physical fulfillment of its approved business programme, but if it is discovered that the delay will delay or delay its 36-month period of production by six months, the issue constitutes the terms of the annulment under Article 36, titled "Resolvement." After reviewing the approved business programme presented to the company, the cumulative rate at the end of November 2013 is 15 per cent, and the cumulative rate at the end of December 2013 is 18 per cent. In other words, the 15 per cent rate caught as of today is due to take place as of December 2013, and according to the business programme, more than six months have been delayed. In this regard, an article sent on July 10, 2014, was asked to do the work at the level of a approved business programme, otherwise the current provisions would be applied to the company in charge. Now, here, as Mehmet Bey said, there is no punishment for Mersin. During our 12 years of rule, the city of Mersin was invested and supported by 10 billion. Our current city hospital has 1,250 beds. Strangely, Mr. Mehmet, your constituency is: there's been a project that's been spoken of for years. It's called the Pamukluk Dam. In the 2011 elections, we went to the village of Karadiken of Tarsus. A 48 - year - old citizen told us exactly this: I was eight years old. Forty years ago, it was an election period, and the politicians came, and in our village, there will be a Cotton Dam, which we call a lifewater project, and your regions will be watered. But it's been 40 years, nothing's been done. These foundations were laid in the period of the AK PARTI government, where the 200,000 acres of land would be watered, and the 127 million cubic metres of drinking water in Mersin province would be met, and 68 million kilowatts of electricity would be produced, and the Cotton Dam would also be auctioned in our time, and the foundations were laid out. The contractor promised to start watering on October 13th of 2013, but due to the problems caused by the contractor, there is now an 80 percent chance it will happen now, and on December 19th, there will be a tender for re-supply construction. Hopefully, when this dam is finished, our region will be satisfied with both irrigation and drinking water. As for the nuclear issue, Mr. Aytug, I, as MP of the AK PARTY, defend the nuclear power plant as an MP of Mersin. Now, there have been many motions for the nuclear plant in the past period, and there have been motions for Akkuyu, and there have been long talks. Of course, you know very well when the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant was decided.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0043par0086	Say it, say it.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0040par0087	It was decided in 1976 during the period of Mr. Deniz Baykal, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0044par0088	Is he in practice?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0040par0089	There's more to be said here at the point of the nuclear plant's impact on tourism, tourism; there are examples in the world; there are nuclear plants close to tourism areas; there are many plants in the United States that are farmed -- nuclear plants in the United States -- in exports of US agricultural products -- that are the number one in the world. I thank everyone, especially Mr. President, Prime Minister, ministers, and MPs, about the investments in Mersin.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0045par0092	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0046par0093	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0047par0094	Wait a second... Mr. Halaçoglu has already requested a statement. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0048par0097	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement from here.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0047par0098	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0048par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, nuclear energy is being talked about all the time, but nobody's talking about a mine that actually exists in Turkey that's really going to open Turkey's fortune. I'd like to make it clear here, especially for the record. There's a mine called thorium, and if you think about it in terms of nuclear energy, 200 tons of uranium is enough, and it's worth 3.5 million tons of coal. Let me put it this way: the amount of energy produced in a 30 cubic meter field generates 3,000 megawatts of energy with a thorium mine. So 50 tons of thorium can produce 50 gigawatts of energy. Turkey has the most thorium mines in the world since India. So far, the identified thorium mine is 880 million tons, and if you give it in dollars, there's $120 trillion of thorium mines in Isparta, Elazig, Eskişehir. Only the thorium mine in Elazig is enough to satisfy Turkey's 100-year-old needs. Dear friends, what would happen if you gave it to the thorium mine, our own resources, until we put so much emphasis on nuclear energy? Today, Germany and China produce energy from this mine. I repeat, 200 tons of uranium in exchange for a ton of thorium mines. I can't...
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0049par0105	Good.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0048par0106	I mean, you guys keep talking about it. It's nice. We're talking here!
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0050par0107	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0048par0108	I wanted it on the record.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0050par0109	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0051par0110	Don't scold me like a teacher!
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0052par0111	Did the students make a noise?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0050par0112	Mr. Horseman, here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0053par0113	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, by saying that Mr. Deniz Baykal had decided to build such a nuclear power plant in 1976, he created a perception that he wanted to build this plant as if he wanted to make it CHP, and he was taunting our corporate identity.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0050par0114	It was decided then in 1976. Isn't that right?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0054par0115	It's not, it's not.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0053par0116	Wait a minute... He's been bullied, one.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0055par0117	What kind of teasing is that?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0053par0118	The second issue, the second challenge, the taunting of our corporate identity...
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0055par0119	For God's sake! What's that like?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0053par0120	Sir, in the process of publicizing the road, someone from CHP is running for office to cancel them, but it's as if the road isn't being done according to this.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0056par0121	Here you go, Mr. Horseman, for two minutes, I promise you, for bullying. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Kaçir, you're picking on him.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0053par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, I listened very carefully when our congressman came out here. Nine minutes out of ten, I find there's really nothing but numbers.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0057par0128	He talks numbers, what?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0053par0129	In the last fifty-eight seconds, he mentioned a nuclear power plant, and I'm defending the nuclear plant. He said, "It's on the record." I wonder how the AKP and MPs will explain it in Mersin, and I'll say it everywhere. Two: Again, the MP here, sir, we were going to build a road........... to go public............. we were taking the people's property for free..... a lawyer came out... and said, "Give the nation's money and the people's rights." We didn't give him his due, so the road was canceled. Wow, CHP's guilty again! Guys, there's brains, there's trace. Give the people their dues, make their own public, make their way, do everything. Now, look, I told you on this stand that the most important problem is the nuclear power plant, come out and talk. I'm telling you, the narcissist is stuck, the farmer's damaged, you haven't spoken; it's breaking out of unemployment; you haven't spoken; I said there's corruption all over Mersin. I said there's corruption on all sides of the house; meat is being smuggled in from customs; GDO products are being smuggled in from customs; I say the Mediterranean Games have found irregularities; I say, look, we don't talk about it because of the asthma; you don't talk about it; you don't talk about it, you don't talk about it; you don't talk about it, you don't talk about it; you don't talk about it, you don't talk about it, you don't talk about it, you don't talk about it, you don't talk about it't talk about it, you don't talk about it, you're crying about it, you're crying in Syria, you're crying, you're crying, you're crying, you're crying, you're crying, you're talking to me, you're talking to the bride, you're talking to me, you're talking to the bride, you're saying, you're being a marriage to the bride, you're being a marriage to the bride, you're being a bride, you're being a bride, you're not talking to the bride. Mr. Ecevit canceled... Now you've re-enacted the dead, the dead!
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0058par0135	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0059par0136	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0058par0137	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0059par0138	The speaker expressed my name as well, causing some misunderstanding.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0058par0139	What statement did he make? What statements led to misunderstanding?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0060par0140	It's about the city...
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0059par0141	Not about the municipality, but about me, about Mersin's problems, he expressed that Mersin had not been punished, saying that I had made false statements. I need to explain.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0058par0142	Here you go, Mr. Chancer. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0059par0145	Congressmans, the issue was to discuss the problems of Mersin.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0061par0146	Mr. Chancer, there have been good investments.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0059par0147	I say it every time, Mr. Kacır, whoever has done an ounce of service to this country, to this nation, God bless him. That's our approach as the National Movement Party. But a politician should not boast of what he has done; he should not boast; he does his duty. But I'm telling you again, the AKP's government completed 12 years, not yesterday's power.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0062par0148	AK PARTY, AK PARTY...
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0059par0149	He's your...
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0063par0150	Ours, ours, ours!
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0059par0151	So... To us, it's a trick-or-treating party, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0064par0153	What did you do with the workers?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0065par0154	So we'll find something for MHP.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0059par0155	Look, let's not go there, but I'm telling you, after 12 years, if you're still here, you're going to apologize to this community. My fear is that the Snowy Dam, as well as the earlier declaration of the Tartarus-winner tourist zone, is the end of the Çukurova region airport, that's our concern. I mean, we got up today and laid the groundwork on it. It's not worth saying, it's the people who have seen what you've laid the foundation for. Look, on January 11, 2004, Mr. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan is giving such speeches about the tourism zone that we are going to open in 2007. He says that we have saved $800 million here on May 24, 2011. Where are they, where are they? So either you stand by what you're saying or you don't say anything new. Our fear is that the Cotton Dam will remain in the air, as you promised before, that's our concern.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0065par0157	Nothing we say stays in the air, don't worry!
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0059par0158	The AKP punished the people of Mersin.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0066par0159	What about the city workers, Mr. Shandir?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0059par0160	I'm re-explaining this because after 12 years, you've given me nothing. You just laid the foundation for the local hospital, where were you for 12 years? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0067par0163	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0068par0164	Mr. President... Yes, Mr. Long, the matter is complete.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0067par0169	I submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Thursday, 4:12.2014 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. The motion by Manisa MP Hasan Ören and 21 MPs to investigate the damage to the Soma economy for the privatisation of Soma Electric Productions and Trade Inc has been passed on 05/11/2014 by the Parliamentary Council of Turkey in order to determine the measures needed to be taken. lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations and held in the same dated combination of its talks on Thursday (04/12/2014).
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0069par0181	Mr. President, I have a brief statement to make.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0067par0182	The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Hasan Ören, Manisa MP.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0070par0184	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's group proposal. I salute you all. Today is December 4th, World Miners Day. In Australia, in Germany, in Germany, in France, in England, all things have been done in business safety, in business health; measures have been taken concerning miners, every person who goes down to the mine, and World Miners Day is celebrated all over the world, but unfortunately it is not possible to celebrate in Turkey. I'd like to put a rose on my collar. I wish you wouldn't cause a black, grieving World Miners' Day to live in Turkey. Unfortunately, by the death of 301 of our young men in the mining accident... we see that you have no interest in taking precautions regarding these mining accidents ahead of us. 301 men went, and the land lay on Soma, as if it were dead. It's not enough that our 301 people, 301 saplings, are gone, now you're taking out 2,831 workers. You're taking it out. I'm telling AKP. It's not the Soma Ash. Soma AŞ is a subcontractor of the TKI (Energy Ministry) and the Ministry of Energy. TKI is the one who gets the money, T.K.I. is the one who gets the profits. Now, in Soma, you're taking a second blow to Soma, to her economy, to her social life, to the lives of the families. I would like to say that the five-year profit of TİKÝ is one-and-a-half times the amount of money you spend on an illegal palace with five years of old money. Whose back did you win? You earned it on the backs of people who worked hard, who worked hard, who came down to the mine, who lost their lives in the mine. Now, if you've earned so much money from people who work in this mine, if the TKI and Energy Ministry has earned 2.5 quadrillion dollars from the back of people who worked in this mine in five years, don't you take the precautions to get these people to work again in these mines? My dear friends, all you ever think about is me, me, me, all the time! I've just told you, this is the land of the people, as I've just told you. If you didn't spend it in a thousand-bedroom palaces, I think you'd be doing a better job of respecting the labor and sweat of these people. Now, that's not enough. Now, with the decision of the Council of Ministers, you have taken the Soma Termik Plant as a privatisation. So, what's the Soma thermal power plant? What's his place in Soma? In Soma's economy, what does it mean in Soma's life? For 60 years, the thermal plant has served in Soma, six units working, annual electricity production of 8 billion kilowatts. Turkey produces 7 per cent of its total electricity production from the plant in Soma. So why did you privatize it? Sir, it's not a profit, it's not a burden on the government. Your logic is to give it to the allies all the time, but it's not here; it's a profit of 80 million dollars in 2012, 80 trillion in old money; it's a profit of 41 trillion in 2013; the number of people working is 1,590, or 2,831 in the street, and now you're in a position to put 1,590 people on the street. So, as opposition MP, I say these things, but what are 100,000 people in Soma? Look, my dear friends, here are 8,148 signatures. Here are all the writings and signatures of Soma, and of Soma, and of the coal, and of the tradesman, and of the industrialist, and of the artist, and of the worker, who breathed the poison in Soma. Who are they? Who opposes privatisation of the thermal plant in Soma? The Soma branch of the TES-H Union, the Soma branch of the MADEN-HIS Union, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Business and Artists, the Drivers' Room, the Transporters' Cooperative, Soma Travel Cooperative, the Somals Association, the Nurse Association, the Somal Association, and most important of all -- the Mayor of Soma. They demand that the privatisation of Soma's thermal plant by the Council of Ministers be halted if new sufferings are not required. They all came to all the Manisa MPs and gave this file. All our friends have this file. So, while we're privatizing this place, isn't the Republican People's Party going to do privatisation tomorrow when they come to power? He'll do it. Is it possible he didn't? But we're going to do privatisations in favor of the public, enriching the lives of the people, bringing the economic conditions of the people to a better place. I mean, what do you guys always say? You're saying that Turkey met services during our ten-year reign. Is that so?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0071par0190	Right.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0070par0191	That's right! So, yesterday, when you looked at what you call the part that doesn't put stones on stone, did you put $60 billion in the treasure without privatisation, selling what you made, or did you put $60 billion in the safe by selling what was done in the part that started from the beginning of Mustafa Kemal? [[Applause from CHP rows]] You know, you're bragging about something else, and you're saying, "Sir, we paid the IMF $22 billion. I have a 7-year-old grandson, give him 60 billion, and he'll pay $22 billion!" You've come to this point in the past, with your hard work, with your sweat, with your nation's understanding of state, by thinking about the rights of 77 million people living in all of Turkey, by selling the deeds of the statesmen, who long for the lives of those people to become more comfortable, richer in the future. Where did all this money go? That's $60 billion in net money outside of what you're given to your followers. Of course, Mr. Metiner, a $60 billion has gone to the supporters. What did the Prime Minister say? I sold water, I grew up selling bagels, I sold cereal. Wasn't he doing this literature? I mean, I came with this, living in every part of life in the lowest, poorest part of the world. So in that part of his life, in the parts where he sells water, he's dreaming of a thousand-room runaway palace. Now, a Prime Minister who's been through that kind of thing today...
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0072par0195	People's palace, people's palace.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0070par0196	The nation, then, in those rooms that you made from the backs of our 301 martyrs, for his sake, take 2,831 workers who were left on the street into TKI, into the Ministry of Energy, into that runaway palace, and give some of the palace you made over them to these workers. Soma's a dead city. There is no life in Soma. Nothing is sweet in Soma. The trucker's troubled, the union's troubled, the tradesman and the artist are troubled. Soma's money's blocked. In Soma, 100,000 people are unhappy now, but if you say that this illegal palace that we're doing is the Somalı's. Let's start turning the wheels on the economy of Somali, the people who are unemployed in Soma, thousands of merchants and artists who can't pay their installments, the Soma. Now, our next friend -- I'd like to ask him -- let our friend in AKP come over here and talk to us about this proposal, what he's going to do about the Soma economy, what he's going to do about our friends who are coming out. Soma's bleeding and crying right now. In Soma, the economy was paralyzed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is the Parliament's understanding of the social state to take precautions. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit02spe0073par0204	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0073par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 23rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, the Republican People's Party has asked to speak against the group's proposal, Manisa MP Uğur Aydemir. Here you go, Mr. Aydemir.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0074par0005	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the group proposal of the Republican People's Party. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation. Dear friends, as you know, this week is the week of the disabled. I wish this meaningful week to increase the sensitivity of our disabled citizens, and I welcome all disabled citizens and their families with love and respect. Besides, it's World Miners Day. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy for our brothers who have died in mining accidents so far, and offer my condolences to their families. And to our brothers and sisters who are still working, God willing, I hope that there will be no harm done. We're always with our fellow miners and their mining families. I salute and salute the Day of the Miners of the Earth, the Day of the miners of our country and of all the miners of the world. Dear friends, energy imports are the most important item in the business deficit. Turkey is dependent on the outside of its primary energy sources by 74 per cent. This puts a lot of pressure on the current deficit. In 2013, the import of energy, which was $55.9 billion, was made in August 2014 at 56.4 billion, 12 months old. In this framework, we will continue decisively implementing structural reforms needed to increase savings rates, reduce energy dependency in energy and increase Turkey's global addition value chain. If we don't have energy imports, we'll almost have no problem calling it open. In this context, we have to increase energy efficiency, use our resources in the most efficient way. AS AK PARTI's government, we've done our program in accordance with a pro-privatisation procedure, and with privatisation, we think that the yield will increase even more, and we see. We do not think that privatisation is harmful to our Soma, nor to our country. Dear friends, you're saying that privatisation of the SEAŞ-B plant would hurt the shopkeepers and the movers, and that it would be a coup to Soma. We don't think this decision will be a coup for our Soma, and for the Soma economy. On the contrary, the Soma thermal plant knows that the mining industry and the Soma economy are of great importance, and that's where we continue our work. In this context, we've done everything that needs to be done to heal all wounds after the accident, and we'll continue to do it. Dear friends, we've made arrangements for the victims of the Soma mining accident. All debts to the Social Security Agency of our miners who lost their lives have been wiped out, and their monthly supply of miners is monthly due to their debt. Five years of insurance and 90 days of premium payment required for the death-salary allowance, and the relatives of the miners who lost their lives were also paid a death sentence. The need for parents to be dependent on their parents by the month has been lifted and their parents are also on a monthly basis. Unless one of the miners has a wife and children, a wife and children, one of their brothers will be employed in public. Dear friends, as you can see, we wrap the wounds in Soma, and we continue to bind them. Because of Miners Week, we've also made arrangements for employees in the mining sector. Counting several of these, we've rearranged the retirement age of 55 to 50 for all workers in the mining sector. The price to be paid to miners who remove the Liniyet and condensation will not be less than twice the minimum wage. For all workers who work in the mining sector, the days that are not working will be added to the period of actual service, as if they were working. The underground miners were reorganised, except for the conditions in which the labour law was deemed mandatory and extraordinary, that they could not be able to do much work. If it has to work, it will be determined at least twice as much. Dear friends, we've added four days' vacation time for underground workers. We've narrowed down the underground time for miners in 36 hours a week and six hours a day. Yes, in your group proposal, you also suggest that the shopkeepers are in trouble, the workers are out of work, the traders are in a lot of trouble. Yes, dear friends, we've had a major mining accident in our Soma, yes. The mines are closed, the coal production is low. Without coal production, our movers are in a tough spot as well. Because of the accident, we also know that the merchants, especially the movers, are facing economic challenges. We're working hard as a government to compensate for the victimization of the tradesmen. The simplest example of this is the contract for the thermal power plant given to Kolin, right next to SAAS. We're trying to get this to work, to provide employment, and to contribute to our national economy as soon as possible. Here, the main opposition party tried to block this investment, using olive trees as an excuse. The real face of the event was actually hidden, trying to create perception. We want that business to go online and start working as soon as possible. Look, with this business operating there, dear friends, 2,800-3. And there shall be over 2,000 hires, and our workers shall have jobs, and we shall increase jobs.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0075par0014	You mean, in spite of the judge's decision?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0074par0015	So, if there's production there, the trucker will continue to transport coal. How else can we open the mines there? With occupational health and safety in the mines... whether it's public or private sector, the important thing is to get the coals into production there by providing occupational health and safety.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0075par0016	Will the thermal plant be privatized or privatized?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0074par0017	As long as we're underground, those coals are of no use to our Soma, no use to our country, no use to our nation. Come, all together, let us lift together the dead land above our dead land, which is the coal bed, which is the engine of the Aegean, which is indeed the dead of the dead earth. Let us work together to lift it up, and join hands together.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0075par0018	80 trillion profitable thermal power plant privatisation or privatisation?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0074par0019	Let our merchants win, and let the merchants win, and let the truckers win, and let our Somahites who live in Somah take the best advantage of this process. Dear friends, we must not waste our national resources, we must make the most of it. So if we want to reduce the current deficit, if we want to increase efficiency in energy, what do we have to do if we want to reduce external dependence on energy? We need to assess the mines we have. We evaluate them as power, and we will continue to evaluate them. See, we got revenue from privatisation.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0076par0022	60 billion dollars...
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0074par0023	Yes, we may have made $60 billion in revenues. You, of course, account for your grandson. Your grandson will pay 20 billion of this here and here. You can call it that.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0076par0024	It's the Minister of Finance.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0074par0025	Dear friends, the proceeds from privatisation are obvious.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0076par0026	60 billion dollars...
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0074par0027	Your grandson may not know where Turkey came from 2002 to 2014, but you're doing a pretty good job of examining it.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0076par0028	Let's hear it.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0074par0029	At your age, their grandchildren may not know where Turkey came from, but they know exactly where it came from. When you travel on roads, you thank our government; when you ride on fast trains, you thank our government; in health, when we go to the hospital, our citizens, our sick brothers are being treated best, and what does he do? In the best possible way, they return safely to their homes.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0076par0030	Will the thermal plant be privatized or privatized?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0074par0031	Dear friends, so we're in favor of privatisation as an AK PARTY.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0076par0032	Congressman, shall we privatize the thermal plant or not?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0074par0033	In order to use the country's resources more efficiently, we take a stand for privatisation, and we continue to display them. But as our government, our Ministry, as lawmakers, if there has been a perception of Soma, if there has been a misunderstanding, we will sit down with our government, we will talk about it; MPs, as deputys of Manisa, we will talk about it, we will do whatever it takes, I salute the High Assembly again, and I say we will vote against the CHP group proposal. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0077par0035	Mr. Zozani, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0078par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. For about an hour and a half, we've been talking about Turkey's energy problem, the thermal power plant, the extraction of the underground mines, but none of us have ever gone down to the saving dimension of this, and we've never meant anything about the saving dimension. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, have you ever wondered how many light bulbs light up that General Assembly lounge we're sitting in? Look, it's just that the General Assembly lounge we're sitting in is lit with 1,832 light bulbs. We only use enough light bulbs to light up a county in the Assembly's General Assembly lounge. If we want to save money, if we really want to use our resources efficiently, we'll start with the savings. We're going to discover that 1,832 light bulbs are too much here, and then... We used 80 light bulbs every single one of the 16 blocks above us.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0079par0042	Yes, thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0078par0043	If you start here, there'll be no miners underground or the country's energy problem. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0079par0045	Thank you. Mr. Special, please, you have a request for a word. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0080par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Speaking from the bench, our Manisa MP said that the Republican People's Party MPs were in a position to cut olives in the thermal power plant tender at Soma. Once, the work that was going to be done there was a natural massacre, against the agricultural county department, against the county managership, not even licensed from their own municipalities, law and nature were being slaughtered together. The opposition was that the workers there, the farmers' goods, were unfairly nationalized. And he's trying to develop a context on the effect of this on the Soma economy, as if he's going to move those coals into today's co-op, when the SEAS he can't clearly say from the podium is privatized or Kolin builds a thermal plant. They're going to have logistics firms in Turkey transport the giants of the world. That day, after the privatisation, Soma will be devastated. That's why the cooperatives, the truckers, who visit all of us, are against it. And we're against this privatisation.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0081par0051	Thank you. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa, has asked for a statement in favour of the Republican People's Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0082par0058	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Republican People's Party on behalf of the People's Party on behalf of the National Movement Party on the motion to investigate the privatisation of the Soma Termic Plant. I salute you all. First of all, it's December 4th, World Miners Day. We'd love to celebrate this in joy, but the mining disasters and massacres have forced us to celebrate this 4th of December. That's why I want to remember this day by wishing you good fortune. Now, before I begin, I'd like to make a point. Now, let the Justice and Development Party stop poaching. Our dear brother Uður Aydemir has spoken, he has expressed his views, accepted, and is not accepted, it is a different matter, but in fact our brother Uğur Aydemir is being thrown into the fire. We had friends who were very interested and followed by the privatisation of this Soma Termic Plant, not Mr. Uğur Aydemir. I don't usually name names as a principle, and I haven't given them for years, but now I'm giving them to you: Hussein Godif or Recai Berber. Why didn't they come? Please, if there's a case they believe in, they'll have to come and defend them from the stand. I'd like to mention that in particular. Precious lawmakers, one third of Turkey's nearly 2 billion tons of lignite coal is available in Soma, and there were about 15,000 miners working in Manisa, a 105 thousand people before this mining disaster on 13 May. There are 1,500 workers working at the thermal plant now. In the mining disaster, 301 of our miners lost their lives, hundreds of homes were shot down, 432 children were orphaned, women lost their wives, hundreds of parents lost their children, and in that time, nearly 200 days of disaster passed, while political-business relations, control failures, and the disorder of working conditions became unregistered. Even though the mining accidents came in the second place after the construction industry, and the vast majority of the fatal accidents in the mines were licensed by the public again, in services and redevans, it occurred in the furnaces, and everyone saw that this system now leads to a massacre, the only existing government that doesn't see it. In addition to social and psychological traumas dominated by Soma, economic uncertainty was added. As of today, some 700 families migrated from Soma (Soma) after the accident, and the tradesman is no longer closed in Soma, whose economy is based on mines and mine workers. There were 1,100 members of the Cooperative, 706 members of the Truckers' Room, and about 3,000 families were making their living out of this shipping business alone, but now that our Somali shipping business has failed to do business, taxes and bank loans should be paid, there is desperation. Dear friends, today's Thursday, the arrival of Thursday is on Wednesday. Like today, Thursday, unfortunately, for months now, we as opposition parties have constantly warned that Soma will come to this day, but as the National Movement Party, these activities have not been taken into account, and Soma is on the verge of a full social explosion as of today. Soma is migrating, Soma is on fire, Soma is in despair, and the army of the unemployed continues to grow every day in Soma. On 1 December 2014, Soma Charal Company ended the work of 2,850 workers, especially those in the Eynez mine, with text messages and cell phone messages, saying: "Our five-year contract ended in May 2014. Look, I'll point out that it ended in May. It's said another company is going to be fully mechanized. And with that, the rumor that 1,500 workers would be laid off by this company has become co-editors. I'm afraid that's the case with Soma. Deputy Prime Minister Arinc said we can't leave the miners who were laid off in Soma (Soma) hungry and exposed. I'd like to ask the government here if you're going to employ the suspended Soman miners, how you're going to employ them, where you're going to employ them. This has to be explained by the government. The Eynez mine said there was no extension agreement between the Turkish Coal Company and the Soma Coal Company -- I don't think so -- why was Soma Coal Company allowed to continue to operate in the Eynez mine until today from the accident that killed 301 of our citizens on 13 May 2014? Why did the court hand over the stove to this company? That's an important question. I'd like to remind you of something very important. Is there, by any chance, a contract between Soma Coal Company and the Turkish Coal Company on the extension of the duration prior to this accident was made, but is this contract hidden from public opinion as to the duration of the accident? This is a very important question that needs to be answered. Mr. President, dear friends, the Soma thermal power plant meets 7 per cent of Turkey's electricity production and employs 1,500 workers, as I put it, and is a very important facility both in Soma and in our country. The Justice and Development Party, on the one hand, has decided to immediately adopt Soma to build a second thermal plant. You know, there's been a massacre of olive trees and the impact of the villagers there. Unfortunately, we can't go into his details because we don't have enough time. And over there, power, how many greyhounds did you hire for the rabbit, who were in charge of the full field, brought the company against the citizen. It's the government's responsibility to turn a property against a citizen like it's a power of law. Now, the process of privatisation of Soma's Soma Termic Plant has been initiated by a second blow to Soma. As Mr. Kören put it, the speaker does not want the privatisation of this thermal plant. There must be a solution, if necessary, as in Blackbuke Iron Steel, it may also be given to the Somals, but the subcarbon monoxide, the upper sulfur dioxide, the lower death and the upper death. This existing, rotten thermal plant is poisoning Soma, cancer disease... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and with the diseases of children, it's polluting. The chimney gas filter is not intended. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0083par0074	Thank you. Mevlüt Akgün, Karaman MP who wants to take a stand against the Republican People's Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Akgun.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0084par0078	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the CHP group proposal. My dear friends, I'd like to talk to you about the mining accident that took place in Ermenek County, where Soma had the same fate. On October 28, 2014, a mining accident occurred at the coal mines owned by the Has Sugar Mining Company in the lovely county of Toros, called Ermenek (Cenne). As you all know, 18 of our fellow workers were trapped in the mine, and all of our brothers' funerals were reached today as a result of their search and rescue. First, I would like to extend my condolences to our brothers and sisters who have died, to their families, and to their families, and to their relatives, to our nation. May Allah never cause such suffering again to our country, to our nation. My dear friends, the town of Ermenek, where the accident took place, is a town that has been coal mining since the 1960s, and the county's economy is largely based on the mining sector. About 1,300 workers work in coal mines still run. On Tuesday (28 October 2014), as soon as the accident occurred, we arrived at the scene of the accident with Mr. Lütfi Elvan, Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Mr. Taner Yıldız. Our delegation later included Mr. Faruk Çelik, our Minister of Labour and Social Security. From the moment of the accident, all of our government's resources have been mobilized to reach out to our workers who have fallen under the influence of the public and private sector as well as what tools, equipment, and machines are needed to save the search using the resources of the private sector. AFAD and other public institutions, including Karaman Governorate, were provided with all the supplies needed, including Istanbul, İzmir, Iconian Metropolitan municipalities, Karaman and Ermenek municipalities and other municipalities. So some equipment was brought to the minefield by helicopters to prevent the waste of time. In addition, TTK, TİK teams, all experienced in interfering in mining accidents, including Ermenek and our mining workers in our region, have arrived in our district, working in 24 hours of shifts, without hesitation. My dear friends, in an accident caused by the explosion of a large mass of water found in the old mine, the entire mine was made up of water, mud, coal dust, and earth-shattering inspections, so the rescue efforts were carried out under very difficult circumstances. The materials removed from the inside are almost a large mountain. A new mine can be opened easier and faster than this. I'd like to thank our Prime Minister, the Minister of Transport, Energy and Labour, and the valued representatives who have spent all their time visiting our opposition parties and all of their time in these works, including our president, who has mobilized all of our government's resources and who has visited the scene of the accident and who share the pain of the families by visiting the scene of the accident. My dear friends, the presence of a major and heavy neglect stemming from operating in an accident is immediately noticeable. So it turns out that the accident occurred in 1994-1997, when the old mine was built uncontrollably under the fire, and it was built up in the old mine, and it was built up in time, due to a burst of water that caused it to burst into the furnace. It's such a heavy defect that the manufacturing company does not have a map of both the old mining site and there is no drilling machine for drilling. As a matter of fact, the issue was included in the audit reports conducted in June 2014 and August 2014. In fact, it is more gravely expressed by employees who work outside the project area, which is being sent by the company to MiGEM. Since there are no 25-metre control drillings, there's no way of knowing how close it was to the watery old gallery. All these matters will surely be evaluated in the investigation conducted by Ermenek Public Prosecutor's Office. My dear friends, it is impossible to accept certain statements that after the accident, the families of our miners were not taken care of and that they were left alone. Just after the accident, help was provided via Social Aid through our Ermenek subsidiary to meet the urgent needs of our families. Other than that, similar and cash benefits have been provided by our municipalities for other needs. In connection with the families of our dead brothers and sisters, the procedures for their families' monthly and occupational income were immediately carried out, and aid campaigns were organised by the Parliament of Ermenek and the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In addition, the bank loans of our brothers who died from bank offices in Ermenek district have been expunged, and the loan debts of all Ermenek trades are postponed for three months. In addition, an effort by KOSGEB has been launched to give loans to our shop owners, who were victims of an accident in our district. My dear friends, most important of all, the EC PARTY group address, dated December 2, 2014, was announced by our Prime Minister, that the same rights to our brothers and sisters who were victims of Soma will be applied to the families of the miners who were killed in the mining accident in Ermenek. In this way, practices will be carried out to minimise the losses of our dead brothers and sisters, such as a monthly death bond, the public employment of at least one child or one of their relatives, and the payment of six months' wages to our brothers who work in other mines. The good news shows the great importance of our government to take care of the families of our brothers who died in the mining accident and to minimize their victims. My dear friends, I know that these studies and help will not bring back our dead brothers. God damn it, don't be a pain in the ass. May he never bring such suffering to our beloved nation again. And when these sufferings happen, it's necessary for the state to be a social state to make all the opportunities to relieve these sufferings, and the government to enforce the rule of social state in the best possible way. With these feelings and thoughts, I celebrate the Day of the Miners of December 4th. Once again, I remember our dead brothers and sisters with mercy, and ask patience for their grieving families. Because of the intensity of the agenda and the legislation on the agenda, the CHP says I'm against the group proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0085par0092	There's nothing on the agenda, don't give him any excuses, the agenda is empty. You just have to lift your finger.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0086par0093	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Thursday 4/12/2014, the agenda was suggested that the drafts 63 and 425, ranked 63 and 425, from the Commission's rankings 93 and 124th, be taken to the fourth and fifth place in order of the agenda, and other tasks held in this section, according to this. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. No commission. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. No commission. It's been postponed. We will resume the negotiations of the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which are ranked in the 3rd place, where the Security and Health Accord in Mines 176 is appropriate. The commission and the government are in place. Yesterday's merger was agreed to transfer the bill to its articles. Now, I'm going to read item one: CONTINUES OF SECURITY AND CONTINUATION IN THE 176 SUMMER WORKS MADDE 1- (1) The approval of the Security and Health Convention on Mines 176 was approved at the 82nd session of the International Labor Organization General Conference in Geneva in 1995. Ali Haydar Öner, Isparta MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Proposal.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0087par0131	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies were yesterday (December 3rd) on the day of the disabled. In a country with 12.29 per cent of its population disabled, the problems of the disabled have not been resolved enough because of those who cannot see the obstacles. And today, December 4th, I salute our miners and their families, whose hands are black, their hearts pure, their sweats holy, their gains lawful. Dear lawmakers, we're meeting with the Court of State and Foreign Affairs Report on the Approvement of Security and Health Conventions in Mining Jobs 176. There are two basic concepts in public administration: preventive security services, preventive health care; concepts that are very incompatible with this law. It is vital that the bill adopted by the Foreign Affairs Commission on October 24, 2014, which we immediately proposed to be adopted on the agenda of the General Assembly, and the implementation of the ILO contracts internationally, in Turkey. The AKP governments have an understanding of how to deal with events later, not only when the work is too late, but when it is in their best interest. The general situation confirms it after the Soma disaster. People who get kicked, slapped, cursed during a get-well visit after the Soma disaster are ugly examples of that. Ermenek's tragedy is the result of new irresponsibility that causes suffering. The International Labour Organisation General Conference adopted the Security and Health Convention in Mines on 22 June 1995. On the basis of this contract -- 57, 60, 63, 64, 65, 77, 81, 93 -- from radiation to business accidents, underground employees' age contracts, working environments, air pollution and noise pollution, vibrations -- made it mandatory. With the contract, the employer was obliged to establish and implement a consistent policy on safety and health after consultation with employees and employers with the maximum representation authority. Such reasons as auditing, reporting and review procedures, statistics, employees and representatives' safety and health were mandatory. The employer faces obligations such as removing risks, controlling the risk source, providing a safe working environment. The contract aims to prevent any disaster, injury, or disease that affects workers or society or harms the environment because of mining activities. Disaster, injury or prevention of disease... when? After the disasters, after the disasters. To answer all these questions honestly, the reason is that first-degree priority is given to Ranta and earthly interests. The CHP Group President proposed 28/11/2014 date and 1646, with the proposal of the Law Proposal, Mr. Group Vice President Hamzacebi. With an offer signed by Hamzacebi. On May 3-13, 2014, he proposed a series of measures to the Eynez mine in Soma district of Soma, causing the loss of 301 miners' lives, but on hold. This law aims to create a national institution of occupational health and safety. Our wish is that this law be dealt with at once. Members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, this law does not apply to those who build a palace. This law is not for those who sign antidemocratic proposals and submit them to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This law is for the nine-year-old Esra Azaleja Damascus, who put his report card on the grave of his father, who was a martyr in Soma. This law is not only for those who have built an escape tunnel palace under the name of the Prime Minister's Service Buildings, but also for those who have made a palace without an account; it is for Recep Gökçe, who has made a proposal with instructions; the tear, the hole, the hole, the cold well, and the hearts of those who have a conscience. Uncle Recep, the poor and holy father of the fallen miner Tezcan Gökçe, in Ermenek, taught mankind to all greedy arrogants. Some people are remembered for their dignity and some for their gluttony. It is for the honourable men and their families, who seek to earn their livelihood in the mines, with their black hands, with their pure hearts, with the sweats of holy foreheads. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, yesterday, I changed part of the speech I prepared when I went home in the evening because the words I heard on TV hurt my conscience. He said today's archipelago of the escaped palace with no idea how much more money would be spent on top of five billion Turkish liras is not his own, it belongs to the nation. It really hurts. Didn't he say that during the prime minister's prime minister of the illegal palace, these structures were built for the prime minister's needs? Now that they're presidents, isn't the palace taken into the presidency? The people know that this palace does not belong to the nation, nor to the people, who claim to belong to the nation. He who escapes from the center of the city, flees from the nation, becomes afraid of the nation, must know that people don't need escape tunnels. Out of the city, the name of the site built at the Ataturk Forest Farm is not Fivetepe; it is the name of the tomb of the late Alparslan Turkesh. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] The honorable MPs don't belong to the nation, but the palace is the palace of those who watch over the people who place the people at the point "A," the palace of those who protect those who kick the nation, the palace of those who insult the mother of the nation, the palace of those who drive out the farmers, the palace of those who make the nation say, "Don't shoot the people!" The 1.6 million is the palace of those who use a thousand-dollar cup in a palace of 2 thousand rooms while living on $1146 lira a month. A palace for the proud, and for the oppressed. People will realize that they have never realized, and they will make your palace a prison for you. But the representatives of our nation must understand that they were not chosen to be a tool for every endeavor, that they should be able to use the word "no" or "no" for the wrong work. He's got a guard rail for miles that can't get out of the street without a guard. I salute the MPs who will show no food that is forbidden to them, nor to their children, nor to their children, nor to eat any unlawful food, nor to ask any account from those who eat it.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0088par0146	Thank you. Erol Dora, Mardin MP who has asked on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the Article. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0089par0150	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on the 1st Article of the Dair Legislature, that the Security and Health Charter No. 650 is acceptable. I salute the General Assembly. While Soma and the grandkids, where 301 miners lost their lives, and 10 workers lost their lives, and there were no extensive legal developments in the massacres of these workers, we all witnessed the collapse of 18 of our miners in Ermenek district of Karaman, on October 28, 2014. Although more than a month later, the bodies of 13 of the 18 workers were recently reached, while the bodies of five of our miners under the cave-in were only recovered this morning. Along with the massacres of workers in the mines, the quality of rescue activities also stands as a topic to focus on. According to the data of the Labour Health and Occupational Security Assembly, at least five workers die every day because there are no safety measures in Turkey. Five workers are sent to die on purpose every day to avoid costs and satisfy capital's desire for profit. We should point out that because no measures were taken, these killings can't be naturalized or normalized, they're work killings. But we see that in the legal processes that followed the deaths of workers, the cases that need to be filed for conscious inclusion or possible intent are being avoided in the least, the work killings are being routineized, naturalized. In this way, those who cause the massacres of workers are favoured, and they do not face the punishment they deserve. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been identified as 1,414 workers who died in Turkey in the first nine months of this year alone in 2014, according to reports by the Labour Health and Business Safety Assembly. According to International Labour Organization (ILO), the number of workers killed every year in Turkey, which ranked third in the deaths of workers after El Salvador and Algeria. The causes of the disaster in Ermenek are no different than what happened in Soma and the grandkids. The regime of subcontractorisation, privatisation, illegal and unsecured labor has turned mines and constructions into workers' hell. Dear lawmakers, construction, energy and mining sectors have become Turkey's profitable, bloody sectors as well. For this reason, the capital is flocking to these areas, and the workers are employed to their death under low wages, long hours, in conditions similar to the hells of 19th century brutal capitalism. Another reality that can't be denied is that Soma, Ermenek and so on are organized crime. On one side of this organised crime is the political will that systemically enforces privatisation and subcontractor policy and does not have effective control, government; on the other is the employer. Public authority is also responsible for the employer. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been accepted at the 82nd International Study Conference of the International Labour Organization (ILO) in 1995, under the Mining and Health Convention 176 in the mine workplaces. The contract, which has been in effect since 5 June 1998, has been approved by 29 of the 185 countries already member of the ILO. The 176 Convention requires that member states, in general, make a commitment to establish a consistent policy on security and health in the mining workplaces and to review them regularly, in regard to national conditions and implementation, and to consult with representatives of the most relevant labour and employers. Precious lawmakers are also among the obligations imposed on employers by this contract to remove security and health risks at mining workplaces or reduce them to a minimum, and to ensure workers' rights to work in a secure environment. The ILO Convention No. 176 is an important contract to ensure that the risks in mines will be reduced to minimum, which must be taken by the employer, preventive and protective measures, which must be recognised to workers and representatives on a legal level, and by mandatory rights and obligations to enforce legal regulations of the entity states in this area. Participating with Contract 176 will help improve health and occupational safety conditions in the mining sector and improve efforts to harmonise our legal regulations with international standards. In this framework, I must say, we find this development extremely positive. Dear lawmakers should be considered that workers are entitled to real information, training and consultation on the preparation and implementation of health and safety measures related to the dangers and risks they face in the mining industry. At the point of ratification of this international contract, which is intended to prevent any disaster, death, injury, or disease that affects the general population because of mining activities, we find it important that the EC PARTI government, which ignores all calls and demands of the relevant political rooms and sensitive democratic institutions and individuals, should give up this error at our destination. Dear lawmakers, we must add that signing contracts for international employment and labour safety alone is not enough, and it is urgent that internal legislation on the issue be immediately reorganised according to international standards. It is clear how vital it is to have serious and qualified audits taken place at the time of the implementation of the arrangements in the matter. Precious lawmakers, capital and state relations, especially when it comes to dangerous jobs, such as mines, shipyards, are completely organized in a way that is based on the common interests of the parties but does not respect the rights and security of the workers. It is clear that the government does not care about the health and economic well-being of mine workers. Dear lawmakers should be terminated in the production of coal, subcontractors and services and abandon the flexible and uncompromising practices that lead to disaster in working life. In business killings, the policy of punishment must be waived, the responsible must be judged at all levels. In businesses, audits must be done seriously, and work conditions for employees must be provided. In order for workers to work humanly without endangering their lives and prevent job killings, the security and flexible working order, particularly the subcontractor system, must be halted. Political pressures against workers sentenced to poor labour conditions by the threat of unemployment should be terminated immediately. The union dam and the actual and legal barriers to organisation must be removed. Dear lawmakers, all operations of the mines where the health and safety measures are not taken must be stopped immediately until the necessary measures are taken, during which time the workers' wages and other financial rights and insurance premiums must be paid fully. Instead of the Law on Health and Safety of Work, a law on health and safety must be passed that will be prepared with the participation of labour and trade organisations and scientists, which will really protect the workers. Dear lawmakers, it is not acceptable for Turkey to turn its back on international contracts, which refer to itself as a democratic, social law state in the Constitution, which aims to ensure the safety of workers, human rights and freedoms, human and environmental health. In this context, Turkey of the 21st century must renew its mining and processing technology and turn to modern methods. Turkey of the 21st century says it must eliminate the fact that it employs unregistered, low-paying, union-free, and unsecured workers, wishing that all of our mining workers would serve the purpose of providing safety for their lives, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0090par0169	Thank you. Now we're going to do a QA. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0091par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, the disabled must be employed under our law in public and private workplaces in Turkey. How many people do these disabled people have to be in public and private workplaces that need to be employed? Are there any of these public and private businesses available for disabled quotas? If there's anything available, do you intend to do any practice for both public institutions and the private sector? Because we have a lot of people from our disabled brothers who, in fact, are looking for a job, who want to stand on their own two feet. What kind of work do you have on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0092par0175	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0093par0177	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, I have a call from Şırnak regarding this free coal incident. It's full of coals in the field, but from Kütahya, from other cities, it's imported coal, and it's being auctioned out there, and it's being auctioned out from abroad. Why is that necessary? Would you care to make a statement about that? In such a case, why is it taken from the outside when it is known that coal is abundant like Şırnak and that it has more calories? Is there a special policy? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0094par0180	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0095par0182	Thank you, Mr. President. Regarding the disabled who are employed in the public and private sector, is there a full staff available in this area, is there a gap in this area; according to the criteria, there are no employment staffs available: Now, dear friends, we know that serious measures and measures have been taken for the employment of disabled persons in the public and private sector in recent years. As a result, the public, in particular, has been instructed to fill the disabled staff with additional staffs each year. I don't have the exact number right now, but I'll introduce it to you in writing. However, the policy of our government on this issue is to fully implement, to the extent that it can, to the maximum, to the extent that it can, to the maximum, to fill the disabled staff. There, you know, the procedure for hiring is strictly objective, and after a final test, our disabled brothers and sisters are hired by choice after a certain phase. I'll introduce you to Mr. Tanal, the blank-fisted staff figures on this. Mr. Kaplan has very serious coal fields and reserves in Şırnak, but we know that coals are being distributed to our citizens from outside the country or from outside the country, especially in the areas of coals distributed through Fak-Fuk Fund -- as part of social policy, as part of social government practice -- for free, we know that coals are being distributed to our citizens. We also know that most of these coals are also covered by domestic production sources. The goal here is to provide this contribution to our citizens who have no means of helping, but on the other hand, the introduction of our non-produced coal resources, the creation of both employment opportunities, the discovery of new additional employment opportunities, and the saving of a foreign currency, as well as the replacement of local coals, which were previously imported. That's the way most of it's done, but specifically in Şırnak, for example, how much coal is produced there, and how much of it is being used in Şırnak, or available to the internal market, and frankly, I don't have any information that I can share with you right now. Let's give this information to you specifically, in a note, in writing, Mr. Kaplan, after we talk to our concerned friend. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0096par0186	Thank you. Mr. Köse, please.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0097par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. The Alpagut-Dodurga Linyit Corporations, founded in Dodurga district of Çorum, have been shut down by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, since they have been identified by occupational safety experts that do not carry the necessary conditions. The employer is already threatening to employ underground workers but only under ground conditions, forcing them to work for minimum wage or lay off. I wonder if the Department of Labor and Social Security is going to be working on this. That's what we want to ask you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0096par0190	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0098par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. Due to the fact that the Dodurga Linet Corporations have been shut down due to their lack of context, our brothers there are probably -- I understand -- temporarily working on the ground. As a general rule, of course, you know, if they're ready to work even if they're not, all social rights, wages, should be given to them, and that's one of the basic rules. If there's a compulsion, if they're forced to work with the above-ground fees, which are lower in the frame you're suggesting, and under these conditions, of course, that would be a violation of the rules. It's done. We'll present it to our Ministry, pass it on immediately. And the answer to that, Mr. Köse, we'll give it to you in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0099par0195	Thank you. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin who has asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0100par0202	Mr. President, I'm going to announce my views on the law that the Health and Safety Convention in the Mines 1995 is appropriate. Dear MPs, we, now, will, in fact, approve of the 176 convention of the ILO, the Convention on Health and Safety in the Mines, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now that we know what we approve of, I will tell you what obligation the government, its employers and its employees have taken on working health and job safety in Turkey. In fact, since this agreement was signed in 1995, the agreement was called the Health and Safety Convention in Menses 1995. Dear lawmakers, the scope of this agreement includes taking and implementing health and safety measures regarding the dangers and risks faced by workers in mining. The scope of the contract covers all mining activities, including underground and above-ground mining enterprises, and again, including the miners' infraction, from preparation to production phases, it covers all the construction tunnels again, and security and health... The contract for running the mines brings responsibility and responsibility for three groups. The groups he's responsible for, the ones he's responsible for: one, governments, two, employers, three, employees. Two in particular are very important, so the responsibility for government and employers is very important. The government has three important tasks, according to this contract: its first task is to develop and implement a compatible policy on health and safety in the mines. But we need to know what we signed, what we approve of. Governments must consult unions and employers while developing policies in mining. So, the government has to do this by consulting employers and trade unions while establishing a compatible policy on health and safety in this mining arrangement brought to it. The second duty of governments is to bring out laws, rules, principles, circuses to be enforced for contract provisions, and to help employers and workers to enforce the law. The third duty of governments is to form the review board to enforce the law, to form the authority for mining health and safety. This authority will be the only official authority that will be in charge of mine health and safety under this contract. So, according to this contract, the authority will be the only authority in mining health and occupational security. As for the employer's responsibility, employers are responsible for the mines, meaning the employer is responsible for the mining work. The employer's job is to make the mines safe, friends. It is the employer's duty to take any security measures related to the mines. Article 7 of the contract clearly states that the workers will take all necessary measures to repair or minimize the risks of health and security in mines under their control. Here are your employers... there are two processes in the process. One, risk assessment. This risk assessment involves two processes, my friends. One is the elimination of danger, the assessment of danger. For this to happen, the danger needs to be identified and the risks need to be assessed, and the danger needs to be destroyed at its source, and it is the employer's duty to take the necessary measures to destroy the source of the danger. If the employer can't do that, he has to minimize risks through designing safe systems. So if he can't eliminate the danger, Recep Private, the employer must at least eliminate the risk. After one step at a time, only the employer can recommend protective equipment here. So protective equipment is the last piece of equipment to be recommended. So I just want to say that, you know, sir, he didn't have a mask, he didn't have a thing, and that's the last thing that should have happened. Health and safety must form a security hierarchy in the jargon. The first thing to do at the top of the hierarchy is to repair the danger, and the latest job is to recommend personal protection equipment. Again, valuable lawmakers, according to ILO, personal protective equipment is the ultimate solution. Before personal protective equipment is given, it is necessary to remove the danger completely and create a functioning safety zone of the mine, to control the risk at its source. There are also workers' rights here, and this contract also considers the rights of substance-based workers. Dear lawmakers, I've told you many times on this bench that in countries where there are at least accidents in the health and safety of workers, where there are minimum accidents, there are responsibilities, there are the state in the line of responsibility, there are employers in the second row, there are no employees in the third row. The obligation to take measures on the health and safety of workers in a workplace is not the responsibility of the engineer or the employees, it is the obligation of the employer to take precautions. However, it is the government's duty to supervise and implement measures taken. And with this ILO contract that we now approve, the government is more responsible. But a bill on the amendment to the Mining Law had been discussed earlier on the Council of Ministers, but that bill was drawn up due to the accident in Soma. Mr. Secretary, if they listen here, at least the Council of Ministers will consider this matter. Now, the Mining Law, which was drawn up due to Soma, has been re-opened, and the opinion of the Turkish Mining Engineers Room, which has the most expert opinion on the subject, has not even been received, and they have drawn up a bill in their own way. In this bill, the MiGEM is coming out of the picture, the science-keeper agency in mining is being removed, it's being privatised in mining, it's being privatised, it's being marketed -- just like the building control companies -- and then it's said to provide security. On the one hand, we sign these contracts concerning ILO, but on the other hand, we try to establish a law against ILO. Dear lawmakers, as I've always said, I'm leaving this bench once again: the accident at the Ermenek furnace was identified as an initial defect in the Department of Energy and Natural Resources report. The prosecutor, who received this expert report, has arrested engineers who have been made clear in this report, even though there are no arrest conditions, and no action has been taken on the General Directorate of Mining Affairs, which experts have identified as a flaw. When the Soma Commission presented the General Directorate of Mining Affairs -- our Commissioner, my colleague, Mr. Ali Reza Alaboyun -- he couldn't even show from the map where the water came from. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He couldn't even show us where the workers work because they don't have a manufacturing map. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0101par0220	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who has asked on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the Article. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0102par0224	It's World Miners Day. We honor our miners, our mining engineers, all our employees, who died in mining accidents, and may their place be in heaven. In Ermenek, the last time all of our brothers were reached, and on such a sad day, the government sent the ILO Convention 176 here. Here's what Congress will decide. Hopefully, once we've made up our minds, it'll be carried out quickly, quickly, and those contracts will be implemented. Because whatever mind it is, whatever mind it is, it's going to put it in a pause when you're signing a contract, you know? One was the ILO Convention number 167, which was the biggest accident in the construction industry, one in the mining sector, the most accidental sector, 176, that's what we're meeting today. Today, on World Miners Day, here, in the Roman era, in Izmit, in Anatolia, because the gift of a day like this, while Santa Barbara was hiding in the mine from his father's wrath, was actually about saving lives, as you may have noticed, the health and life of a saint who fled from the outside to that mine was protected. However, in 2010, the Parliamentary Research Commission on Mines had reported 30 deaths from Zonguldak, while we were working. So, when news of 30 deaths came from Zonguldak, this contract was on the agenda, unfortunately, four years later, we have miners in Afshin Elbia, who have not been buried under millions of tons of soil, nowhere in the world. He was followed by Şırnak, followed by Zonguldak, followed by Balıkesir, followed by Soma and the last by Ermenek... Now, how can there be a memorial here on this bitter day? Graveyards are visited, they're read into their souls, they're given wealth, so that's what families can do. So, what are politicians going to do? I mean, is there a destiny in this country, in this country, to be condemned to the non-working minister of this country, a necessity, a conviction in life? Is there such a thing as a conviction for the energy out of this country's ministers? Look, notice, all these lives, the safety of workers, the health of workers, a political authority that doesn't take precautions in this matter, a political authority, and, with great ease, a resistance not to account politically. Unsubstantiated inspections, and especially privatisation in these inspections, a brutal work in the rejection system of the TİKIE, and then subcontractorization and enslaving and killing people here. Business murders, business accidents, that's what it's called. Now, of course, it should be the duty of this Assembly to discuss the problems of the miners who lost their lives on Earth Miners' Day, because of the ruthless savage capitalism's greed for profit. So I ask the government, and I ask the ministers: When will the Mining Research Commission report be discussed in 2010, as Parliamentary Research Commission? How many more workers have to die so that that report can be discussed here today? Guys, 2010, it's been over five years. We've visited 20 cities, over 100 districts, at least 300 mines for this Commission of Mine Research. We studied them from marble to chroma, from chrome to coal, from coal to coal, from Mount Kira, from Turgut to the nickel mine that was offered to the British Royal Family, and we wrote all their reports. He paid a lot of money for this report. We've had 15 MPs, 10 specialists working on it so we can talk about these problems. Now, I'm asking you, did he send these reports, these research commissions, for four months, so that you could shit yourself, send them to the House? I was the only member of parliament at that time -- in the Commission, in our party -- we gave this report to the Speaker of Parliament, and then we gave it to the Propose Commission, and we asked him to follow it and follow it. So when are you going to do it, when are you going to see him? I mean, it's become very clear that in these dangerous and risky fields of business, ever since the first time history was introduced to civilization, from the Stone Age to metal, since the beginning of the use of metal as gold jewelry and tools, we've come to the energy sector, and all the disasters are happening in the energy sector. Notice that when it comes to coal-based primitive production and European Union, I tell all of our companies -- including European Union member states -- that in 2010 I say: in your country, 15 years, you can exploit as much as you want, you can produce as much as you want, you can kill as many workers as you want, you can profit as you want. You don't have control, you don't have control, you don't have occupational health; you don't work for the Department of Labor, you don't work for the Department of Energy; you give it to anyone who wants a license. Whatever you steal in 15 years, whatever you take, that's all there is for you. Four years of this have gone, friends, five years to go, ten years to go. And global capital is doing the same cruelty all over the world, acting out with the same desire for profit. Then it is inevitable that the organization and solidarity of workers, workers and workers will also be global. After unionisation in the line of work, collective agreements and the implementation of the ILO contract on these matters, our unions need to make a serious breakthrough in this matter. If a Canadian company is here to exploit and kill a worker, a worker in Canada should be able to make a sound, if an American company is poisoning a Gediz Plain on Mount Play, if a British company drowns a Gediz Plain here, in the face of international solidarity with other workers in the mining sector. Now I'm asking you, for God's sake, how many companies of yours as a government can go and cut down their olive tree in Europe, America can cut down their olive tree, enter their furnaces, contaminate their environment, disrupt their environment, disrupt their nature, destroy their history, their culture, can you show me one company? You can't show it, you'll only be cruel to your own land and to your own people. In this regard, I would like to say that sooner or later, it would be signed, approved today, and stored in the Ministry immediately -- see, I use this concept on purpose -- and I wish it to be a blessing.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0103par0232	Thank you. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0104par0234	I mean, there are those who don't agree.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0103par0235	There are those who don't, I've seen them, but they've been accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group and on behalf of its individual, Free Special, Manisa MP. Since there are no other speakers, your time is 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0105par0242	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today is World Miners' Day, and today we are negotiating the Security and Health Convention of the International Labour Organization, which we have long been unable to understand and criticize, and we hope the High Assembly will approve. On this meaningful day, I would especially like to thank the esteemed members of all parties who have come to terms with such an important international contract, who have come to terms with a compromise, as a Manisa MP, and as an MP who has all lived with you as a member of the Soma pain. This international contract organises security and health care in the mines. And 19 years ago, ILO made this call to countries all over the world who belonged to him. Unfortunately, Turkey hasn't signed this signature in 19 years. Near 30 ▪ had approved this contract before us. So why didn't we bring up the signing of this contract? In fact, it came up at various times. For example, when we lost 30 workers in Karadon in 2010, the Minister of Labor and Social Security of the era said that those workers had died beautifully, and unfortunately, the Parliament and Government said that the ILO contract would be signed at the time. After the Soma disaster, representatives of Faruk Çelik and the government said that signing the ILO 176 was on the agenda. Unfortunately, we also had to experience the disaster of Ermenek in order for ILO to come on the agenda of the Assembly today. This is really important for this Parliament and Turkey to show how politics in Turkey, when it reduces its sensitivity to certain issues, does not do its part and returns to its carelessness in previous processes. But the ILO contract, so to speak, is not a horse and a camel in this area. The ILO contract sets minimum standards. To give an example, what would happen today if we signed or signed the ILO? For example, the ILO contract to monitor which workers are located in the mine at the time of an accident in the mines or at the time of work, making it mandatory to see who works on the electronic map. We didn't sign this. From the workers we tried to save in Soma, we were able to get about 96 results by counting the identities of the workers -- even how many people were in there -- who had left their IDs on their hats -- and then, unfortunately, as the AFAD had boasted. If we had signed the ILO, we would have known how many people are in there, where they are, but ILO is a minimum standard. The countries that have already signed the ILO have already exceeded the ILO. Germany, for example, makes it so, but at the same time, it dresses its workers' pulses, fevers, and clothing that monitors whether or not they have a health problem. Think about it, you have five minutes, you know where the guy who's about to lose his pulse from the workers, and you can get in touch with him. So it is important to sign the ILO, and to overcome the ILO. Why hasn't Mr. Omar Dinçer been signed for years? At first, Mr. Omar Dinçer, then various officials used the following statements: "If our legislation were sufficient, it wouldn't be Soma, if our legislation were sufficient, it wouldn't be Ermenek, it wouldn't be Karadon, and if our legislation were sufficient, why are we here today? But still, on such an important day, it is extremely valuable to decide to sign such an important contract. Of course, after Soma, we're coming here and we're talking, and we've just learned -- we've said so many times before -- we've heard that the rights given to the families of the miners we lost and the families of the miners we lost will also be given to the people of Ermenek. This is extremely important. But for the 301 workers in Soma, we give them to the families of the 18 workers in Ermenek, and between Soma and Ermenek there were 38 accidents, and to 54 workers who died in 38 accidents, we do not give them. That's not gonna happen. This means that your father, your son, was late to die. It doesn't fit in the conscience. It would be fitting for this House to be given those rights to those who have lost them, by the way. And over the summer, we compared the bag of law studies to the work of the cicada; it grew throughout the summer, but not one barley length. You beat water in the air. We said, "We're doing good things when we bring criticism." But after Ermenek became, Mr. Davutoglu went back to explaining the business safety package, but in that package, he literally gave birth to a mountain rat. The worst part is, there's a Soma Commission, and Mr. President is in the living room right now. The Soma Research Commission, sometimes, has done research, where the ruling opposition has crawled out of a three-inch area, endangering their lives, a report is written, work is intense, it's valuable, but there are things he can't write about, and we write about it as an opposition evil. But, Mr. Davutoglu, in the same way, 29 of the same way -- Mr. Akif Hamzacebi (Mr. Akif Hamzacebi) -- has shown that the commission to investigate the mining accidents I gave with 51 of my friends -- in the sense of the Justice and Development Party when it was rejected before the mining accident, he actually established that commission with the climate that was created and did not set up in his heart. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The draft report of the Soma Commission was announced the day after Mr. Davutoglu announced the mine package. Believe me, none of Davutoglu's proposals have any of the suggestions that the Soma Commission has provided with common intelligence. Another perception management. But we didn't see it enough, we did what was done, and as a group, we invited all of their partners -- trade unions, trade organisations, all of their trade organizations, up to the Turkish Medical Association -- to a very close degree in the matter, and with a work that we did under the chairmanship of Mr. President Kılıçdaroglu, we also prepared a mining package, a business health and safety proposal, and with the signature of Mr. Hamzacebi. We present this package to the conscience of the House, your evaluations and your common mind. It contains whatever the modern world is doing until the loss of Soma Ermenek is granted the rights of those we lost, and an independent board is formed, and all the setbacks in these inspections are eliminated. As a difference, we claim that even if it is lacking, we are open as a group, you complete its shortcomings, and we call together to make changes that will change the fate of the mining in Turkey. To make it very clear, today is World Mining Day; of course, it's not something to celebrate, it's a distraction from the ruling party -- Turkey doesn't celebrate 301 lives, 18 lives, 54 lives in a place where it's lost its lives. But there's another pain in Soma. Of the mine workers in Soma, 2,831. Those who worked where the accident took place, despite the words of the prime minister of the age, despite the words of the ministers -- the second word from the beginning, no one will be allowed to leave during that time. Despite the promise of Soma Ash -- were put in front of the door by Soma Ash. First, he made some games, said he would remove the measure on my assets, or I wouldn't pay a salary. Some environments have tried to manipulate workers, from the boss's source, through the intervention of public officials. They would have disappeared into thin air, such as Warning Mining, and God willing, the measures on those goods are a guarantee of workers' compensations, for workers to receive, but now the state will pay for it. They are trying to get away with it. The state should pay for it. They're being pulled aside, but in return for what these men are doing, the state needs to see a systemic problem. 2,831 people didn't suddenly become unemployed. Because of energy policies, because of the rejection system, because of faulty privatisation policies, these workers were unemployed. These workers have been unemployed, but we have not condemned the children of these workers, their families, to hunger; four counties are condemned to hunger, from 40krek to Izmir's Kınuk, to Balıkesir's Battlebase. The tradesmen are in trouble, the movers are in trouble. In every way you can imagine, these counties are on the verge of collapse. There's something we need to do about it. We are calling in this sense: there is an application furnace in the entire world, which is also involved in the opposition we're going to write in the Soma Commission report. Mr. Minister of Energy and Natural Resources says there's no turning back. In the coming year of legislation, we'll eliminate all of this by standing up for the Republican People's Party's Law proposal, but now, at least as the ruling party, there's not a return of an ρiρ, it's a sheep, it's a kasaf, and let's do something like this: the practice of the entire world is a mine, it's a real mine. Let's always wink at the friend, not at the side, but at the stranger, give the real owner a permit, assign a minefield to the Turkish Coal Company in Soma. Let's get our 2,831 workers working in that minefield to work as union public workers. Let the mine work, let it earn money, let the house bread go, but let the stove not only serve it. The practice mine is this: The ILO standard that you signed today is an example of a mine that is perfectly suited to your own legislation, provided full work security. Mining engineers come in, they train there, they train there before mining technicians graduate. Mining workers who complete theoretical training make their practical training 50 hours, 80 hours, incomes on that stove, and it may be the practice furnace and sample furnace of the Aegean District. You can also monitor the costs of your services buyers, your redevansists. If I spend so much to ensure the safety of work against you, it will not save my cost. You also have exemplary costs for the lesson. You have all the costs at the safest mine. If you do this, for the first time, you will wink at the poor who really need it, not a subordinate, not a relative, and you won't stand behind a statement by a minister of the Republic of Turkey who said it was early and wrong, it was number one of Turkey's safest mines. The Minister of Energy's promise was that when 301 were underfoot on May 13th, you would fulfill those workers' promise in a mine that was perfectly safe. As a final statement, we will all object to the privatisation of the thermal plant in Soma. Speaking of which, the motion that had just been rejected has upset all of us. But let's be clear: the Republican People's Party is against the privatisation of such a facility, which is profitable, strategically important, employive, and a county is trying to survive. On World Mining Day, we, the Republican People's Party, once again remember all our losses with longing, gratitude, mercy. Before this -- before these accidents -- we all shed tears, remembering our sincere feelings -- hoping that they will work together for the worker, on the side of the worker, on the side of the miner; hoping that our unemployed brothers in Soma will hold back the promise of the state given to them, and I salute all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit03spe0106par0259	Thank you. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, the clear vote of the Dair Law Charter for Approvement of Security and Health Conventions in the Number 176 Mine Businesses: [[x]] [[xx]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0106par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 23rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Ozturk, you have a request.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0107par0005	Mr. President, I accidentally voted in an electronic vote, perhaps due to a hand habit. I vote yes, so I vote yes. I made a promise for the record. It must have been a mistake or aberration.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0106par0006	Yes, thank you. It's already been filed. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey for Peaceful Use of Nuclear Energy in the 4th place, and with the draft law and the Foreign Commission's Report on the Approvement of a Co-operation Agreement between the Kingdom of Jordan. Mr. President, the Commission and the Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed in 63 rows. Aytuğ Atıcı, Mersin MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0108par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have taken a pledge to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party on the Bill of the Perpetual Law, that the Government of the Republic of Turkey will approve the Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Jordan. At first, I salute all those who do not deceive themselves and their surroundings. Why did I say that? Because, as I've just stressed, an agreement is being reached between the government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the Jordanian Hashimite on the peaceful use of nuclear energy. Now, the ones who listen to us, the ones who watch us don't get it wrong. Yeah, between Turkey and Jordan. What deal are they making? Look, I'm telling you, the sides are saying that the fieldwork of nuclear power and research reactors, the design of nuclear plants -- we've done 50 of them, or we've done 50 of them -- will transmit information to us -- the construction of nuclear power plants, the operating of the plant, the operating of the nuclear power plant -- the modernization of nuclear power plants -- look, here, I'm talking about the writing that comes with Mr. Prime Minister's signature. Why are you embarrassing us? We don't have one nuclear power plant. We're a country that doesn't have a nuclear power plant and wants outside help because we can't build a nuclear power plant on our own. Jordan is worse than us, Jordan has no nuclear experience. Now, as if the blind and the deaf are each other, we will rise up, we will transfer information to the Jordanian Hashimic Kingdom, we will tell them what we don't know, or we will ask them for information that they don't know. So after modernization, you're making deals on testing them, even maintenance, even removal from the business. Well, for God's sake, a little intelligence, a little conscience, for God's sake, we're struggling here, so we don't have to build a power plant for Turkey, so you say, "We're going to make a deal with Jordan." We'll pass on our knowledge to them. When this bill came, I asked the relevant bureaucrats of the Commission: "Do we have such information?" Check the commission records. They say that our country is no longer qualified to build a nuclear power plant. Look, this is what our bureaucrats, our senior bureaucrats, say and report to the Commission. We even say that it is difficult to operate a nuclear power plant that has been built by our means. That's what our bureaucrats are saying, people who know how to do it. What are those who don't know what they're doing? He's in the mood, wow, sir, I'm going to sign a nuclear contract with Jordan. It's a shame! It's not enough that you're haunting us with nuclear power plant trouble, and you're embarrassing us in a sentence. Oh, if you have any other plans, I don't know. We'll build the nuclear plant there, we'll put in a subcontractor, we'll get money from there, we'll take our chances, we'll enjoy ourselves. What can I say? Dear friends, as the nuclear power plant is unnecessary to Turkey, so the nuclear plant is unnecessary to Jordan. Ha, if a nuclear power plant is built there, of course the people in Jordan will decide, the governments will decide, but my government cannot go to Jordan and build a nuclear power plant there. We'll go back first, take care of ourselves. Do I need a nuclear power plant in my country? No, you don't. Where don't you need it? Look, I'll give you some numbers. You'll also say: "The opposition talks in its own numbers." No, the numbers I'm going to give you are the figures that I'm going to give you by Turkish Electrical Enterprises, Inc. and TÜBITAK. None of this is just said to be an opposition. These institutions say on 21 June 2013: our demand for electricity for the year 2022 is around 450 billion kilowatts per hour. They get an average growth rate of 7.5%. No way, no way. Maybe when the CHP comes to power, it'll catch up to 7.5 percent growth with its moves. That's why our friends made their plans accordingly. They say in 2022, Turkey needs more than 450 billion kilowatts. Well, how am I supposed to handle it? I look at my country: I look at how much the sun has fallen, and I look at how many hours it has fallen, and I look at how efficient it is, and I say: I can produce 380 billion kilowatts per year in 2022. See, what I needed was 450. Guys, let's get smart, everybody's got brains, thank God. Our bureaucrats with their 2022 projections, and they're guiding us. They say that if you use only the sun and only the sun, in 2022 380 billion kilowatts of electricity is in the pocket. How much do I need? 450 billion. So, what's left? It's a very small number. Look, the same bureaucrats say that this number is 1.6 times the energy we consumed in 2003, just the sun. Also, if you use your brain a little bit more, if you activate other renewable energy sources, you don't need nuclear energy in any way. These are not my numbers: 100 billion from hydroelectricity, 100 billion from domestic lignite, 120 billion from the wind, 35 billion from the biogas, 16 billion from the geothermal, and if you use 16 billion kilowatts and energy efficient, you can generate 54 billion from the geothermal - underneath -- you can generate kilowattage energy. There's only one thing I've done: I've written down these numbers that the bureaucrats have given me, and I've collected them, and it's 824 billion kilowatts per hour. Friends, again, in 2022, we need 450, 824... I mean, I only get about twice as much energy from renewable sources. For God's sake, let's use our brains. If I have that potential, why am I getting involved in nuclear trouble? The waste is unpredictable. Russia doesn't buy waste, folks. It doesn't. You're going up to Russia, sir. Please take these. And you say to Russia, "Come, take this waste from the Mediterranean, and bring it from Akkuyu, and pass it around, and come up to the Aegean, and pass through the Çanakkale Strait, and come to the Sea of Marmara." O Istanbul MPs, I am telling you the route of the nuclear wastes that will come out of Akkuyu. From the Sea of Marmara to the Bosphorus, come to the Black Sea, and bring it from the Black Sea to Sivastopol. Look, guys, moving material is nuclear waste. Thousands, millions of years of radiation will spread. If anything happens to this ship, like the barrels that were thrown into the previous sea, the whole of Istanbul, all of the Aegean, all of the Mediterranean and the Black Sea will be in danger. If we needed it, I'd say so. Japan says: I have no choice, I will use nuclear energy. There is nothing to do. France says: "I have no choice, I will use nuclear energy, but I have made my plan, and I will change it." Now, when all countries in Europe except France cancel their nuclear programs, when an industrial giant like Japan cancels their nuclear program, what reason do you bring the nuclear scourge into my beautiful country, friends? There's no way you're gonna get it, you're not gonna get it. Congressmans, members of the Justice and Development Party; you have removed your government from within yourself, please prevent them from using you in this business, do not be a tool; reform your government and get them to step back. I've told you over and over again about the damage to nuclear power plants, and today I'm just telling you that this job is irrational, and I'm telling you, it's ridiculous, and I'm telling you, it's expensive. And it's so expensive that for 15 years, we're going to buy kilowatts for 12.35 American cents, except for VAT, which is 13 cents, friends; don't do it, don't do it. You're gonna give us cancer, you're gonna ruin our environment, you're gonna take our money. I mean, it's called going out with his money and buying trouble, being humiliated by his money. So think about this before you eat the date palms, and let's save Turkey from this nuclear disaster by hand. Look, this issue, health issues, education issues, should be the subject of parties. Let's take this as a matter of partying. Who doesn't want to have too much energy, too good? We all do, but if I don't need it, why should I take the dirty energy, guys? Why should I use dirty energy and give my children cancer? So I'm going to stress once again that nuclear power plants are dangerous, my friends. Look, the talks just said that 38 years ago, this job was decided. That's right. Thirty-eight years ago, there was no earthquake fault line here. Now, the nuclear plant discovered the Ecemis fault line just below where you built it, scientists, friends, told us there was a risk of an earthquake here. You can build as strong a nuclear power plant as you want, and this nuclear plant will explode in an earthquake. Don't tell us we'll be fine. Just five days ago, a nuclear plant broke down in Ukraine, five days ago and for three days, the government hid it from its own people. Now, tomorrow, when we have the same thing, if you're dead on the other side, if you're not dead, you're gonna pay for it on this side. Come on, I mean, get a smart team, bring this team in, let's all talk together, let's all shout that this nuclear power plant isn't necessary for us, it's really not necessary. But I'm telling you, if you persist, I swear to God, most of Mersin's people will break down all your pickaxes there, put a wall of flesh on the door of that nuclear plant. You won't be able to build that nuclear plant unless you trample on our bodies, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0109par0029	We'll do it!
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0108par0030	I say this with authority from the people of Mersin.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0109par0031	We'll do it!
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0108par0032	So, keep your wits about you. Let's get rid of this nuclear power plant mess by hand. As we survived...
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0109par0033	We'll do it!
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0108par0034	Don't be rude! You're a big congressman, you don't just hump a congressman who talks here! It's a shame, it's a shame! I invite you to behave!
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0109par0035	Watch your language.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0108par0036	I'm talking about people's health here, and you're humping there. It suits you!
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0110par0037	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0108par0038	You're the dirty one!
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0110par0039	Listen to you! Speak properly!
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0108par0040	You're the dirty one!
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0111par0041	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0108par0042	I'm here to talk about the interests of Mersin. I'm here to talk about the health of the people.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0112par0043	Holy shit!
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0108par0044	You don't have the right to be rude like that in there. You're going to listen to it like a man.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0112par0045	What if you're a man?
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0108par0046	Your decisions will depend on you, and I will oppose them. It's my duty, it's my reason for being. You won't be able to build a nuclear plant there, period!
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0113par0048	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan has asked for the People's Democratic Party Group, Şırnak MP. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0114par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. When I look at this contract, I mean, I'm surprised. Turkey has activated nuclear atomic energy, Jordan has done everything, Jordan and Turkey will merge, and they will sign a peaceful contract on nuclear issues, for energy purposes. Now, when you look at it from here, the reason for this contract is that there's uranium in the product. They say, "Ours have discovered that there are engineers in Turkey who know about it, and they're going to activate nuclear energy in this field together, and then they're going to improve, etc. Now, since both countries are so good at nuclear energy, so advanced, so much uranium and engineers, I ask you, why did you give the Mersin Akkuyu Nuclear Plant to Russia? When Putin arrived, why did you immediately sign the CED report as a gift to Putin? Mersin is the most beautiful city in the Mediterranean, the most beautiful city in the Mediterranean, in history, in nature, in the beauty of the Mediterranean, in agriculture, in narcissism, in everything. In its best place, you signed the nuclear contract with the Russians through this Parliament. Moreover, according to your nuclear energy contract with the Russians, the Russians will build this plant for $22 billion, Turkey will have to buy the kilowatts of electricity from the Russians for 15 years, 12.38 cents a state guarantee. What if you don't know the account when the government gives the existence of this nation to other foreign companies... so you say the citizens, people, Sakarya, you talk about patriotism, you're really surprised. What country in the world built a strategic nuclear power plant in a foreign country, can you guys show me one example? So you're building a nuclear power plant for Russia, and Turkey is going into a profit share partnership, notice. When Putin arrives, you give him the CED report and sacrifice Mersin. You didn't ask the people of Mersin, you didn't ask the people of Mersin, you didn't ask the people of Mersin, you didn't ask the tourism, you didn't ask the agriculture, you didn't ask the narcissist, you didn't ask anything. You built this nuclear plant in Mersin, where all the people are against it and your party is against it.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0115par0055	They haven't set it up yet.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0114par0056	They made the contract, the money's done. Now, while this is going on, look out, with the Japanese, and also, after the nuclear explosion and leak in Fukushima, the Japanese came, going to Sinop, the most beautiful place called Sinop. Look, all of Ankara's fish comes from here, the shield fish, the tequila, the hamster, all of these are coming here from Sinop. The problem is, where does the fish from Ankara come from? From Sinop. Now, you're going to poison that fish, and then you're going to feed the Ankarans poisonous fish. Anyway, the air is a different matter, it's going to poison the air, it's going to poison a 20-mile radius. And in your second contract with the Japanese, you're like, "We're 25 percent partners, 25 percent partners in the nuclear plant, 25 percent Japanese." We don't know if you've produced uranium, my friends, or did you produce uranium, or did you have uranium? Now, he who reads this contract says: "We are raising 50 engineers in Russia, 50 engineers in nuclear energy, e, and the kingdom has uranium reserves in Jordan, and we will bring them together. Look, I'll tell you something - I'll tell you this story, but before you do, ISIS will get to him. So you'll see things. There's a lot of Vandal, a barbarian who knows about nuclear energy, and I'll tell you the truth, that's another matter. However, in the Black Sea, there will be a nuclear power plant coming in, and there is a request from the people of Sinop, from us, from Parliament, from all of us. The Sinop Trade and Industry Presidency has written a letter to us, and has written to you, as you know, a letter has been sent to the EC PARTİL people -- I don't know if you are in the habit of reading, you must, you must know, you must have, you must see: Mr. Congressman, it has been decided to shut down the deficit in our country due to the lack of electricity due to power. After the decision of nuclear energy, the government first made a deal with the Russian government in Mersin Akkuyu, which was guaranteed to buy -- a high price -- and then in the corner of heaven, Turkey, France, Japan -- I knew Japanese -- one-quarter Turkish partnership, and the French wanted to make a deal with the government, which, on this occasion, we learned more clearly. Actually, the prenup was done, it's over. Now, nuclear technology is as unknown as it is new to our country. In May 2014, I studied nuclear energy in Japan, Belgium and France in November. In Japan, after the Fukushima disaster, the public vote shut down the entire nuclear power plant because of 66% of the Japanese people's nuclear opposition. Now, here, the Japanese don't open nuclear power plants for 40 million dollars a day because the nuclear power plants are closed, although they pay extra for natural gas, out of love for their people, out of respect for their opinion. Our government's making deals with them now. Look, notice, in fact, which of the people who are going to be concerned, concerned, and living in the building of these contracts did you ask? The D.E.D. reports are on time, and the Ministry has removed him as well, in the regulations and the Ministry approves direct CED reports. Imagine that 30km of space in a beautiful city like Sinop, all the way from Amasra, Bart's, all the way from Bart's to... it's a little bit far from Bart's, but it'll find you from the sea, from the river, I'll tell you that, Mr. Tunç, because Chernobyl came and hit you in the east of the Black Sea. And the Chernobyl Thracian hit the coast of the West Black Sea as well, you know, during that explosion. His effects are still on the rise in cancer cases. Now, where are you going to get the uranium from here, we're asking. Won't you be addicted to the outside? Tomorrow, you've had a falling out and they've had a falling out, what's going to happen? You'll stay in the dark, it'll stop. Now, look, what's the other partner France doing for Sinop nuclear? It reduces the share of nuclear production from 75 to 50 per cent in electricity production. It's a country that uses the most. Now, Germany has decided to shut down all nuclear power plants. In Germany, all plants are shut down because nuclear plants are harmful. Why are these industrialized countries that need power more than we do, shutting down their power plants, giving up nuclear power, have we ever looked into it? It's called a future democracy. Don't we have as much respect for our people, our people, as much as France, Germany, Japan? Don't we take our people to the fort? These days, a nuclear contract like this in Turkey-Japan, we're doing it with the Jordanian Kingdom. Now, the Sinopians don't like it when they put embargoes on their futures, mortgages on them. So, since I'm taking charge of Engin Altay, I'm here today as Deputy Chairman of the CHP Group, and I'm here to express that in his name. (HPP) Because the best corners of heaven in Turkey are Mersin Sinop and the northern south and third nuclear power plant efforts are being held on the coast of the West Black Sea in Pinikada Thracea. For some reason, they always pick beautiful forest areas, beautiful places. I mean, there's an interesting way of dealing with these companies. Now, in this case, what future will you leave to the children of Sinop? Think of it this way: at least for 11.38 cents in investment in nuclear energy, Turkey has agreed with France, Japan. So, I'd like to ask the AK PARTY MPs, you'll raise your hand: Do you know that the most expensive nuclear energy in the world is 6-7 cents? So they'll double it. Six or seven cents, fellas. Now, there's wind and sun in Turkey, which has all these renewable energy sources. With the GAP project in the water, massive electricity production is already here at the most. What do we say now? So what reason do you have to give money to Russian, Japanese, French companies, to give money to someone who really loves this country, to have a political energy deficit. How can you explain that the environment, nature, history, culture, man, the future is so wasted? This isn't a new event, guys. Nazim Hikmet often wrote his poem when the nuclear bomb trials were conducted in the Pacific Ocean, where this was not a new event. You know, there's a poem that starts with "Stronsium's raining on meat and milk." But you know what the most interesting thing was? The poem he wrote for the Japanese fisherman. There's a nuclear bomb trial and a Japanese fisherman dies, and it says: ▪ Killed by a cloud in the sea, The Japanese fisherman was a young man, We fish, you eat, you die. Anyone who touches us dies. He writes a poem, can you imagine? A man is in the middle of the sea, someone's doing a nuclear test, he's eating fish, he's touching fish, he's dying of fish, he's dying of nuclear poisoning. Now, for God's sake, I'm asking you, is that smart? I mean, do you ever wonder why the royal family would have rich uranium deposits, but why would they give them to you when America had them? If it wasn't for America, the kingdom of Jordan wouldn't last a day, it wouldn't stand there; you know that, you know, you know who it stands with. So you get the uranium, Turkey builds a nuclear power plant, then you eat together and wrinkle together. You think these forces that don't make you give gas and oil to this country will make you eat this, these uranium sources! For what peaceful purpose is energy being used, nuclear energy; can you tell me? Every nuclear, uranium power plant is the most powerful weapon in the world, with all its dangers, my friends. The latest -- those who are curious -- is the incident after the earthquake in Fukushima, simple as that. Now, I advise you, AK PARTY people -- there's a lot in Istanbul, although here on December 10th, we'll be in budget talks -- there's a Sinopians' launch day, there's an hamster feast in Sinop. You still have a chance to eat fish without poison before these nuclear plants live. Otherwise, you'd say to your children, "We didn't have these plants, we were taking advantage of natural seafood, we were taking advantage of the forest, we were taking advantage of the air." Believe me, we see these as very dangerous steps in an energy strategy and energy security of a country, and we say: When you're giving money to these companies, nuclear companies, solar, wind, thermal, water fields, without wild capitalism ambitions, why don't you take it up to 5 percent on your own resources? So in Turkey, we want to say that it's this low. This is a very dangerous situation. In this energy policy, we think nuclear contracts like this will do a lot of damage to the country. We are against this kind of environmental disaster, both in Mersin, and in Sinop, and everywhere, and we warn the government from here. For the People's Democratic Party, man is precious, nature is precious, ecological balance is precious. In terms of non-threatening energy sources in these, bring it in here, support for solar energy, bring it in, support for wind energy. Come on, let's support you in things that don't destroy nature, don't destroy tourism, don't destroy culture. Otherwise, I'll tell you all, you've already got some priors in the HES. Hasankeyf, 80 per cent of the Ilisu Dam is finished, and you will pass as the government, which has been most devoted to the culture, as the AK PARTI government that has left Hassankeyf under water. That'll be a first, and write that down in your notebook. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit04spe0116par0082	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger, lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-12-04sit05spe0116par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 23rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 63. The commission and the government are in place. TO CONTROL THE CONTACT OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE INTERVIEW IN THE CONTINUATION OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSE OF CONTINUATION WITH THE CONTINUATION OF ACTION OF THE NUCLEER INSTITION OF INSTITUTIONS. Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Jordan Hashimic Government has been ratified for the use of nuclear energy in Amman, signed on February 17, 2011. Yeah, no one wants to talk about matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, the Open Bill of the Civil Code on the Agreement to Co-operation Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Jordan Hashimi for Peaceful Use of Nuclear Energy is a result of a clear vote: [[x]] Mine Lök White Bayram Original So the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin the talks of the Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which took place at the 5th time of the agenda, in accordance with the Turkish Republic and the Jordanian Hashimi Kingdom, in accordance with the Constitutional Charter on the Approvement of the Transferline Dair Agreement. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the Commission will no longer be available, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (December 9th 2014) to discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues in order. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
