tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 56th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Before we make an off-the-book promise, my dear fellow lawmakers, if we could provide peace in the House... Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0002par0011	The roll call is over. Say, Mr. President, they're gone.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0001par0012	Roll call's over.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0003par0013	Take a break, Mr. President, you need to take a break like this.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0001par0014	So let's just say that 1 minute, so that the goal doesn't equal 1.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0004par0015	Put it on the agenda, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0001par0016	The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Durmuş Ali Torlak. He wants to talk about the problems of water products engineers and fishermen' technology engineers. Here you go, Mr. Torlak.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0005par0022	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been promised off-the-tops about the problems of water products engineers and technicians of fishing technology engineers. I hereby salute your high council. My condolences to God, the great Turkish nation, who is now a martyr on the road to Ağrı-East-East Whitey. In the same way, I wish our wounded brothers a speedy recovery. Dear lawmakers, the water products sector is one of Turkey's leading and essential sectors to develop. The importance of water products engineers is irrefutable in order for this sector to make a healthy development. However, water products engineering training is still not in its rightful place, even though it is in its 32nd year of training. These qualified people who run the private sector to the record have unfortunately failed to see enough dignity in the state's eye in this industry, where they give their youth and lifetimes. If our country, which began production of water products for exports in the early 1980s, was able to reach up to 200,000 tonnes of production today, it should not be forgotten that this was by the selfless work of water products engineers. In the last 20 years, our friends, who have created the infrastructure of fish farming throughout our country, have brought the industry to a level that will make noise in the world and in the EU. However, we regret to follow that despite the high value of addition to our country, the relevant Ministry has not been given enough attention. Because the occupational challenge of Minister Eker is heavy, water products and fishing technology treats engineers like stepchildren. Moreover, these friends are not expecting every graduate state to employ them, and they are demanding the extradition of their appointed rights and powers and a fair appointment system in the field of duty. However, Mr. Minister Eker has taken nearly 22,000 staff to the Ministry in the last decade, with the majority of his colleagues, 409 water products engineers in ten years, 69 fishing technology engineers, as usual, as hush money. I also wanted to point out that the number of jobs without water products technicians is also in need of research. Therefore, the Minister, who has found funding in his ministry's employment of nearly 22,000 colleagues, when it comes to water products and fishing technology engineers, gives them a lot of grads, so they should turn to private sectors. Good lawmakers are running out of natural stocks due to the lack of detection of excessive and illegal poaching. Thus, despite the employment of 25 million hectares of water products -- close to our country's area of agriculture -- this inadequate water products engineer could only take part in the 35th time of the world's total production of water products. Therefore, thousands of trained water products graduates expect the Ministry to take initiative. Engineers working at the ministry expect their rights to be given quickly, rather than simply measuring the length of the fish. In this respect, a water products engineer and team should be in charge of shipping and management, and all rights and powers of water products engineers should be returned to them. Even in large cities such as Istanbul, Ankara, three-five water products engineers should be wrong to follow things and immediately increase the number of jobs and activities of our fellow engineers. In order to develop the right registration system in water products co-ops, water products engineers must be assigned as contracting agricultural advisers. The law of the profession must be passed as soon as possible. As the Nationalist Movement Party, I expect the government to show the necessary sensitivity to these issues, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0006par0031	Thank you, Mr. Torlak. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin who wants to speak about judicial and corruption. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0007par0036	Mr. President, due to the fact that democracy has not been fully operated, that a transparent, transparent understanding of governance in this country has not been dominated, incidents such as corruption, thefts, bribes and favours have exploded on December 17th, as if a volcano had exploded in the middle, shoeboxes, safes, vaults, vaults. Now, valued MPs, this is the second event that has begun. First, corruption known as Lighthouse corruption. The existence of that Lighthouse corruption was determined by the verdict of the German courts, but the original perpetrators of that corruption, called the great corruption of the world, were found in Turkey. However, the Turkish Justice Department and the government's real anti-investigative attitude towards those who committed corruption remains unclear, but the prosecution of prosecutors who investigated them, the prosecution behind them, and ultimately, what was the corruption of that Lighthouse? Similar events occurred during these December 17th events. Mr. Prime Minister, he's talking about everything; he's mixing women's C-sections with how many children they're going to have, and he's talking about whether boys and girls are going to stay in dorms. After investigating a corruption charge involving the government's ministers on December 17th, the Prime Minister says that December 17th is a coup against us. Of course, since the Prime Minister considers the national will to be his will, he considers it a coup against him to investigate corruption and bribery. Dear MPs, but Mr. Prime Minister never opens his mouth about what the vaults in the bedroom are for, why the money was in the vaults, and what the counting machine was doing there, or the $4.5 million in money found at the home of the Public Bank Director. Mr. Prime Minister doesn't say that these events in this country don't say whether it's corruption or not. In fact, there's a lot of evidence of major corruption and bribery, and there's hard evidence, and here's the safes in the bedroom, here's the shoe boxes, $4.5 million in shoe boxes, that's concrete evidence. My dear friends, in every country there are incidents such as corruption and bribery, but in those countries, corruption and corruption are passed on by impartial and independent judiciary. Prosecutors investigating the investigation of corruption in this country were dismissed in one day, Mr. Prime Minister Aksaray brought his governor in on his own plane, so he blocked the investigation. Mr. Prime Minister and the ministers say where they're going: "We have no accounts to settle." Why don't you come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and why don't you want these proceedings brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? Dear MPs, we don't have an account we can't afford. With empty words like that, Mr. Prime Minister can't save himself or his ministers. I can only testify to my prosecutor, my judge. By bringing his own prosecutor with his understanding, by pretending to investigate, he will not be able to save himself with actions and procedures that will cause the investigation to fail. What's important in democracies is control, transparency. A closed society was formed during the AKP ruling period. An uncompromising, unmanageable government, eventually sunk into the swamp of corruption, corruption, bribery. Now he's struggling to get out, but no matter how much he struggles, no matter how much he tries to cover up these corruption and investigations, he won't be able to cover it up. It's sinking, my dear friends. Therefore, what needs to be done is to answer to the impartial and independent judiciary. There's no way to escape an investigation, a prosecution, by changing the prosecutors, by changing the police from place to place, by making the trial unsustainable, and above all, there's no way to be exonerated in the public conscience. There's only one thing to do, and the Prime Minister must answer first. My respects.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0008par0045	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Adıyaman Aldıyaman MP Mohammed Murtaza Kırük. Here you go, Mr. Catcher.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0009par0050	Mr. President, good lawmakers, it's not uncommon for daily politics to consume the values of society. When political parties prefer to play for bleachers instead of well-worked programs, the disease manifests itself well. In the heat of the debate, even the most sacred concepts are used to convince and grind the bleachers. Of course, everyone, including politicians, is disturbed by the fact that the political language is on the floor, but it is clear that this question cannot be resolved with good advice. We also need to know that the issue is not limited to insults, slang, abusive speech, but that we are dealing with a more refined problem. Yeah, politics needs to know the language and localize the society it comes out of. Politics that knows the language of the society it comes out of is politics that knows its history, its geography, its literature, its poetry, its diversity, and its dreams. Dear friends, the concepts and institutions of our world of value are very important to our social life, especially in the Westernization adventure, these concepts have been forgotten and taken out of social life. In recent days, along with the process of creating chaos on December 17th, the extensive use of religious literature and the search for legitimacy through this literature have brought us a whole new world of concepts: Pharaoh, Haman, emancipated, biat culture. These concepts, each of which are symbols of different events, of different floors, are being torn from the meaning floor and tried to undermine current politics.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0010par0053	Düzle MP told me the concepts.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0009par0054	The concept of ▪Biat (Biat) has also been influenced by this hurtful process. As a smear tool from the mouth of many politicians to the right of the fan, to the left, we have heard the word "Biat culture." This concept refers to the unresolved obedience of political qualifiers, to every application of their leaders, to every word they say, to put aside the mind.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0010par0055	What do you mean?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0009par0056	This use is also a manifestation of the irrational positivist approach, which claims to be the irrationalness of the religious field, with individual hardware, sociological epiphany, whatever its religious appearance, and all its concepts.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0010par0057	Tell me, what do you understand? You got religion mixed up right away. Use religion again.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0011par0058	Like the Düzçe MP, let's say that Tayip Erdogan has the qualities of Allah. Shall we say that? ▪ Touching him is worship. Shall we call him worship?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0012par0059	Congressmans, please, don't interfere with our off-the-top friend.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0013par0060	Let's excuse the distance from the left to this literature, because their ideology is different, but even the right-wing politicians of the years use the concept of ▪Biat culture in a similar way, with the lightest of which it can be explained by not being a native. Dear friends, the Arabic word for the concept of,,,, means shopping. The concept is a mutual agreement on a matter discussed and discussed and agreed upon. Biat means both religious and political when compared with the Holy Prophet. To choose the head of state in the four Caliphate eras, but then to give allegiance to the one who took possession of the sultan in the period of the reign that began with the Emevis. In the end, a biat is a sociopolitic aqueduct based on volunteering, which eventually has legal sanctions. Biat is not a narcotics agency, friends, but rather, it means that the voters are actively following their elected director, and in this sense, it's nothing more than participatory democracy. It is not possible for us to create our future with these stereotypes; just as Cemil Meric puts it, let's get out of the straight shirt of ideology and try to interpret our day through our own real concepts. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0014par0065	Thank you, Mr. Catcher. According to the 60th article, I will make a promise to 10 of our friends. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0015par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Artvin Arhavi Kamilet Valley has a hydropower plant that is wanted to continue its work. On January 28th, all democratic mass organizations in Artvin, NGOs, all people from outside Artvin have performed a very big show in Arhavi, making a very serious press statement. Last year, I told him what an endemic valley this valley was, a natural wonder. Mr. Energy Minister is here. Last year, he said, "I will come to Artvin to see Kamilet Valley in the shortest time." It's been a year, Mr. Secretary, and I wonder when you'll be back. I asked you in writing, "When will you come?" He said, "I will come as soon as possible, I understand your sensitivity." Look, there's a wild natural slaughter going on over there, Mr. Secretary. This isn't just any valley. You should see this valley. Imagine a valley where people drink water directly from the waters of that valley. You have to stand up to a great valley this high, against the effort to be destroyed. I'm taking your word for it. I wonder when you'll come to Artvin, when you'll stop this murder in this valley.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0016par0074	Mr. Irbet...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0017par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. As the dissemination of prosecutors, judges and police officers who have uncovered evidence and documents on the basis of the charges since 17 December 2013, the HSYK, which aims to meet the European Union's standards, tries to connect the justice system to the governors, we see continued efforts to implement and regulate them, which clearly contradict the Venice Criteria. In addition, the secret goal in the background of changing the positions of prosecutors and police officers who have rejected democratic subjects is to create an empire of fear? The question remains the agenda. On the other hand, there is a ban on national will to question corruption. We live in a country where the MP is trying to impose a gag order on the parliamentary question motion. And when the reaction comes, it's said to be your passion. This is nothing more than an administrative block of legislation and a constitutional offense. It is already clear that censorship is intended by the law the government wants to adopt on the Internet. There's a limit to freedom when there's corruption when we're trying to bring censorship and a clear limit to the right of our citizens.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0018par0081	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0019par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, with local elections held on March 30, 2014, 29 districts of private administrations will be closed under the Metropolitan Law. The personnel of the state's private administrations, whose corporate personalities have been removed, are carried in all kinds of transports and non-moving goods and rights and debts, and are specified by law. However, the fate of the staff working under service is still uncertain. For example, the service contract for 64 current drivers, 120 cleaners and 56 security guards working at the Istanbul City General Assembly will be terminated as of March 31st. Therefore, in Istanbul alone, more than 200 people will be out of work with the annulment of their employment. What will be the status of the staff in this situation? Is it considered to prepare a new law clause? The workers will not be able to see them, and they will be thrown out on the day of winter. Despite his promises, he is unable to find any answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0020par0086	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0021par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. In connection with the zoning changes made for profit, Deputy Minister Bayraktar has also said that Prime Minister Erdogan, who is aware of everything, should also resign. And then this Minister came out and apologized for explaining these facts. The prosecutor, who uncovered $4.5 million in shoe boxes, was relieved of duty. In Urla, the villa negotiations fell to the media. Now the media's claims that Prime Minister Erdogan negotiated with the businessmen to buy the ATV in the morning, by building a pool, using his prime minister's influence to release them have become public. Prime Minister Erdogan and the AKP are suspected of bribery, corruption and corruption. If the Prime Minister thinks he can get rid of corruption charges by yelling and accusing, he's wrong. The Prime Minister must or should resign in a way that convinces the public of allegations of bribery and corruption, which are all over the place; this is the right way.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0020par0090	Mr. Topstone...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0022par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. A police officer who did traffic control on the Opium-Aktauk road stopped a AKP candidate's vehicle because he didn't receive a science examination. The AKP's presidential candidate then called the governor to stop, and the governor called the police officer at midnight and told him to leave the vehicle. When the police officer rejected this unlawful request, the governor of Afyon hung up on the police officer, saying he was a son of a... We learned that from the press. When the police act in accordance with the law, they become children, and when they kill the youth of the traveling resistance, they are written in writing. I protest that understanding. Other than cops with power sticks, I'm celebrating officers who do their duty with dignity, and I just want to say that we're here for you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0023par0095	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0024par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. On 31/12/2013, an arrangement by the Banking Board of Editors and Control was provided for credit cards and loans to limit their installments. At the same time, it sought to protect consumers, protect credit card and credit users, while on the other hand, trying to prevent the malicious tradesman from being a loan shark. However, in particular in Osmaniye, the trade and industry chamber, our legal, legitimate, legitimate business manager, who is looking for his livelihood, complains because these companies are registered in rooms and operate in telecommunications and jewelry, are unable to obtain their income through instalment sales, credit card sales. They have a complaint from that angle. I specifically request that the balance be taken into consideration of this arrangement, from the ministers of the government. Thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0025par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is February 4th World Cancer Day. Cancer is an important public health issue in the world and in our country that comes second after heart and vascular disease in the order of known deaths. In this frame, cancer protection is an important point. Cancer is a protected disease. A third of the cases can be avoided by proper protection strategies and early diagnosis. One of the most important factors of cancer formation is environmental impacts, about 90 percent. Everyone has to take care not to contaminate the country in the world and in the city where we live. In the past decade, according to Health Ministry data, there has been an 80 per cent increase in cancer cases in Turkey, but more importantly -- I want to tell the Ministry of Health -- the fact that cancer drugs are both expensive and the difficulty at the point of accessibility is not yet resolved by the Ministry. So, this is what we're talking about...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0026par0108	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0027par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Farmers who produce in the province of Tokat, Artova, Kelkit, and Kazova are facing a major decline in their future production due to the drought of the weather. In the past few years, they have expressed to banks that they are facing execution due to the inability to pay debt to agricultural loan co-ops, and that they will already suffer losses due to the lack of weather in the coming period. Therefore, farmers have expectations of delaying, restructuring, and improving their debt. I tried to bring that up. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0028par0113	Dear Varli...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0029par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to give the government a warning about your intervention. The fertilizer was raised to $1.2 a month ago -- when it was not used -- while it was now raised to $1.2, so there was an increase of 20 cents in fertilizer. Likewise, the price of diesel has suddenly started to rise. And while we already have a shortage of farmers who are underintrodden by input prices, the increase of these fertilizer prices has severely victimised our farmer, and he has suffered the loss of crops in the drought. At the time of the harvest, Egypt was sold for about 540,000 liras at an old price, while the price of corn was now around 630,000 liras. What kind of politics is that? Is that the policy of destroying the farmer, the policy of ignoring the farmer, or the policy of eradicating the farmer's name completely from history? I'm warning the government from here, and I wish they'd come up with a solution.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0030par0119	Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0031par0121	Thank you, Mayor. We're first in the world in the number of workers who died in business accidents and accidents. 82 workers died in January. Yesterday, one of our citizens died in the next building during the destruction of a five-story building during urban transformations in Ankara. In Adana, one of our workers died as a result of the collapse of the building as concrete was poured out in the construction of TOKI. I ask God's mercy for those who die. Because of urban transformation, the number of destruction studies must be carried out in a fully equipped and professional practice, otherwise the number of casualties and losses will increase. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0032par0125	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0033par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to stress two things here in particular: First, the website of a member of parliament has been blacked out, including a proposal for a question about bribery and corruption. Indeed, this is very grave, the rights and channels of the nation to gain knowledge are being shut down, blacked out. Unfortunately, the authority used by lawmakers in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to exercise sovereignty on behalf of the nation is being blackened. It's very bad. I'd say that's what this is about. Probably many people's websites have been shut down. No one will be able to cover up these allegations of corruption and bribery. In particular, the bag law requires the withdrawal of crucial substances related to the blackening of the Internet. Another issue was that during my weekend visit to Malatya, we had citizens from the village of Adıyaman, who came from the village of Idıyaman, during a visit to the Turkut Özal Medical Center. Citizens of England have expressed that the road to Adıyaman and the steward is in a very bad state and that no one is interested. I say to you, Adıyamans, I think it would be better if the ministers were to follow the work of the contractors instead of following the work of those who entered into them. By means of you, I have communicated to the government about the necessary sensitivity to this road, which binds the people to Adıyaman, and to the steward. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0034par0132	We're moving on to the president's agenda...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0033par0133	In English, the steward... the AKP people have resigned too, come on! The agencies have resigned!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0035par0134	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0034par0135	Sorry, I didn't see you. I read it as Mr. Ayadun. Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0035par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, let me put it this way: the Adıyaman-incantation, the Indice-Kahta road is one of our first acts. It's a bumpy road, a mountain road, and a long road, and it's power that extends and expands from Adıyaman to the Indijace. Of course, since they don't know about Inlice, okay, they may have found out where she is, but every time we go, I say it as a congressman. Again, we're part of a government between the House of England that has also reformed, started and ended those roadworks.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0036par0140	He resigned for her, the Turkish AKP agency!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0035par0141	Dear friends, today is also the anniversary of the death of Stylish Atef Hodja. The intellectual, who first protested at the British Embassy in Beyoğlu province of İzmir Occupy 15 May 1919, gave a patriot who supported the national Mujadeliyah from the heart. Conqueror's class, medaris inspector, Kabatatan's Administrator is an activist who is both an idea-maker and an activist who participates in actions as well as teaching Arabic. In Beyan-ul Hak, Mahfil, Alemdar and Sıbilürreşad, Bedizcez, Mehmet Aqif, Aşıskalı Ali Haydar, Eşref Edip and Ali Şükru were an active scholar. On February 4, 1926, he was executed on the grounds of his book, which he had written 18 months before the Hat Law. Ali Çetinkaya and Kılıç Ali were not lawyers; they were soldiers and appointed MPs. You're all well aware of the treatments of the Inscribator, who was tried in the book he wrote just before the hat was made. It's our duty to face past scenes of shame and to give up the right to be right, even if it's not right. As the AK PARTI authority, we named a hospital in Süskilpıl, and the park in Çorum was named after Atif Hodja. We are the martyrs of this country, veterans, scholars, great political men...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0037par0144	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0035par0145	One more minute...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0037par0146	It was two minutes! No, we give the presidents two minutes, it takes five minutes. Mr. Aydın, I've given you two minutes.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0038par0148	Mr. President, according to Article 60, I'd like a word, too.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0039par0149	I'll be done in a minute, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0037par0150	No, now, I... Finish it very quickly, please. I mean, I don't want to hurt or hurt the group's vice presidents. We went from one minute to two.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0040par0152	But, sir, he talks every day five or six times as Deputy Director of the Group. According to 60...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0037par0154	Mr. Young, I'm also interested in the members of the group...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0040par0155	Well, now, Mr. President, don't treat the MPs and the members of the group separately.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0037par0156	I didn't start it, I did, I'm moving on.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0040par0157	So this is a huge injustice to lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0037par0158	Right, you're right. From now on, I'll let it all go by in a minute. And then the entire group of vice presidents came and scolded me separately. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0041par0160	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0037par0161	Please, finish quickly.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0041par0162	We will be proud of the martyrs, veterans, scholars, great political men of this country, and we will continue to live on their names. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has learned from such bad experiences, and it should. Major steps have been taken towards democratisation since 2002, when the EC PARTY came to power. The removal of the state of emergency, the removal of the DGM and the special-level courts, the civilisation of the National Security Council, the reduction of the jurisdiction of the military judiciary, the removal of the EMASYA Protocol, the removal of the decree from the Red Book that perceives its nation as a threat under the name of the Red Book, and the removal of Article 35° of the Civil Service Act, the removal of Article of the Constitution of the Constitution of 1982. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that we will continue to fight democraticization with such issues as the removal of the temporary 15th article. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0042par0167	Thank you. We're going on the agenda...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0043par0170	Mr. President, sir, the matter of the members of the group's vice president... earlier, at the meeting of the chairman of the House, was a matter of one minute and ten deputies, but when it is necessary to make a statement on behalf of the groups, two minutes are on behalf of the groups. So, the right to say that the group's vice presidents here, frankly, has a say outside of what's known for ten minutes, or the congressman...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0042par0171	That's what I'm giving you... to convince Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0043par0172	It would be good if Mr. Young respected the group's will in this matter, because it belongs to all groups. Let me put it this way: They just called, Mr. Ahmet Aydına. There's no Asphalt left. Let's show it to Mr. Aydın. They ask if he can come. For him, and for the AKP agencies in Iraq and Kahta, they have already resigned. In that respect, they expressed their satisfaction.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0044par0174	Who called? Who called?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0045par0175	Mr. President, first of all, I invite Mr. Oktay to go with me to England so he can see the way.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0046par0176	Go together, together.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0047par0177	Call me.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0045par0178	Secondly, our mayors, Inlice and the stewards, have resigned because they were not nominated again, and there is no other reason.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0048par0179	You've already won by 15 votes. We're taking back the city now, I hope.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0047par0180	The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly He witnessed human rights violations of Turkey's recent 40-year history/historic social memory, victims of unknown massacres, unsolved murders. However, in this process, the mystery veil or mystery veil on the vast majority of events has not yet been removed. In fact, some of the painful events that have been experienced have been completely forgotten. Therefore, since the massacres were not brought to trial by those responsible, new ones have been added to these painful events in the past. As a result of these tragic events, society's trust in life together has been undermined, and at every moment, similar events seem to occur. As an example of the May 1st Labor Day celebrations of the past, about 500,000 people from various Turkish provinces came to Istanbul to celebrate Labor Day on May 1, 1977, and were led by DİSK's organisation, filling the Zom Square. Due to high attendance, the corteges took a long time to enter the area and the rally was extended. During the events leading up to the end of the period's DİSK President Kemal Türkler's speech, hundreds of people were injured, both on the Sular Administration building and on several floors of hotels in the square and because of the outbreak. On 1 May 1977, it was dated as May 1st of Blood. The events and massacres of May 1st Labor Day were not limited to May 1, 1977. In 1989, a worker named Mehmet Akif Dalcı was killed in an attack on the mass gathering in Rim Square. In 1990, no one was allowed to walk to Rim Square, and in the events, the ITÜ student Gulay Sakin was paralyzed. In 1996, about 150,000 people gathered in Kadıköy Square to attend the May 1 Labor Day celebrations, and 3 people died as a result of the events. It has been known and discussed for years that these events were planned by the illegal terrorist organization countererilla. "In a 44-page report sent by the MIT to the presidency, Prime Minister and Chief of Staff before May 1, 1977, the DİSK's purposes for May 1st were listed as "to win public opinion and legitimise this holiday." The substance is included. At the end of the report, the report said, "When looked at the May 1st 1976 action, after a period of one year, it could be said that DİSK had occupied most of the results it had hoped for from this action." His testimony is in place. According to the MIT report, the mysterious veil over events and massacres during May 1st Labor Day celebrations has not yet been removed, but it is known that countererilla is responsible for these events. Therefore, it is the need of democracy to enlighten the events that remain in darkness and in the unknown, to be judged by criminals and to be presented to public knowledge by those responsible. Therefore, under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Inclusion, I demand that Parliament be opened. 30/04/2012 [[Tunceli]] [[İzmir]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 4) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] 5) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] 10) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Tunceli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 15) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 16) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 20) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 21) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 22) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] [[Bolu]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is inevitable to oppose all forms of violence, wherever it comes from, and whoever it comes from. The work needed to quickly end individual and social violence, sexist violence, violence directed at some professional groups in private, must be started very quickly. Such violence should not only be addressed in terms of security policies, but measures to eliminate the causes of violence must be weighed down. A new incident of violence has been added to the teacher who was previously witnessed in many provinces, when our teacher Narife Czechcen, who served at Esenyurt Kıraç High School, was stabbed to death by a student. In an environment where people find it difficult to show love even for their own children, we cannot accept the violence of our teachers, who show love for each student in class of 50 or 60, to avoid any sacrifice in order for them to receive better education. These attacks have hurt our people's conscience. It is extremely worrying that our teachers have been subjected to violence that would put their lives at risk while fighting for a better education. It is not acceptable to watch teachers, education workers, who have been paid less than their colleagues in many countries in the world, who are trying to maintain their lives under very difficult economic and social conditions, be subjected to such violence. It is evident that the Minister of National Education has constantly despised teachers with his statements and practices, thus accelerating the wave of violence. In order to prevent such attacks, the Ministry of National Education must quickly review the practice of training employees and the student who brought the parent face-to-face. In order to find out why, why, underlying facts, and to end the violence they were subjected to by our educational workers, we propose the establishment of the Parliament's research commission under Articles 104 and 105. 1) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 2) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] 6) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Malatya]] 8) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] 13) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 16) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 20) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] 22) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 23) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] [[Bolu]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[Antalya]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly From the 10th century onwards, the Roma are a community that moves from northern India to the west, spreading throughout the world. A. F. According to Pott and Franz Miclosich, the roots of the gypsies are based on the bottom step of what is called "doma" or "dumba," which is composed of musicians and singers in India. The Roma migrated west to England and then to North America. Romanes, then called "Egyptian" in English, were likened to the Egyptians by the people in England. As a result of the historical change of the word, the word "Gypsy" or "Gypsy" was revealed. In our country, Roma have been called "Gingene" for many years. According to localities, however, they are called "Roman" in Western Anatolia and Thrace, "Mutrib" in Van and Ardahan, "Elekçi" in Central Anatolia, "Erzurum, Artvin, Erzincan, Bayburt and Sivas, "Posha" in the Mediterranean and Aegean regions, and "Cono" in Adana and around the region. They can also be called labels that show the characteristics of "Esmer citizens," "Boarders," "Coachers," lifestyles, and working arm. In addition, in our country, the word "opportunity" is widely used for Roma. It means "egyptian" (or "egyptian). In the Ottoman era, the Roma, called "Chingane," were considered Egyptian, as they were in England, and have come to this day. Since the 10th century, the Roma have described themselves as the Romans. Rum means "man." In their centuries of nomadic lives, the Roma have achieved a rich cultural structure, blending with the traditions and customs of the land they passed. Today, more than 15 million Roma live around the world, and more than 750 000 live in Turkey. All over the world, Roma are considered the lowest culture group, not able to achieve equal social status with different definitions. During World War II, the Roma were one of the most violent people in this sense. Although known as the Holocaust, between 200,000 and 800,000 Roma were slaughtered in Nazi Germany, Hungary, Poland and Czechoslovakia. The Roma call this massacre "Porajmos" (splitting). In April 1971, the first International Roman Congress was held in London in connection with the ongoing problems of the Roma. It has been celebrated as World Roman Day since 1990. Like all over the world, in Turkey, Roma are viewed as a subculture group. In the Ottoman period, the Roma were seen as a unit of the Rumeli Genderdom and were forced to live in isolation in the Thracian region. The Roma were treated as lower class in the Ottoman Empire. For example, in Ottomans, even though they described themselves as Sunni Muslims, they would not beheaded as Muslims if they were sentenced to death for crimes such as murder, treason, but as non-Muslims. Today, the treatment of Roma is not so different. This matter needs to be consolidated with several examples. In Edirne, the imam-hatip high school, followed by a Roman citizen who graduated from the seminary, was granted the request to be appointed imam to his village, but the villagers said, "We do not pray behind the gypsy." The posting has been cancelled upon response. In another case, members of the Board of Modern Roma Association of İzmir were not accepted because they were Roma at the restaurant where they went to eat. This and many similar events condemn the Roma to live together. A famous film actor said in an interview, "They made the gypsy king, first cut off his father." It illustrates the perception of society in its own way. Also, Roman neighborhoods are being destroyed because of urban transformation projects that do not fit the fabric of the city, while Roma are being forced to live a different way of life by removing them from the way they used to live. The Roma in Turkey are subject to high levels of discrimination and humiliation, although they openly declare their pride as Turks and describe themselves as "Sunni Muslims." The lightest stereotypes that have been attributed to the Roma by the majority of the community are repeated through the media, as well as the stereotypes of "all" and "unfortunate" and "journal" in the dance-flower triangle, "spell" or "criminal" or even further. The general perception of Roma in Turkish society puts them at the bottom of the social hierarchy. Let alone education and health, not being able to use basic social security services, this social community can't even express its belonging in the public domain. The longing of outcast minorities to be part of the majority is understandable and historically familiar. Roma, too, continue to strive to be part of society, not to be an outcast and isolated minority. In Turkey, with the largest 4th largest Roma population in the world, in order to investigate the problems facing this social community and to determine solutions, I propose and propose the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105. [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] [[Çanakkale]] 4) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Bolu]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 11) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 12) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 13) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 14) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 15) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission also has a membership for lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. Lawmakers who are not members of the political party group who want to run for office on Monday (February 10, 2014) are at 18 p.m. on Monday (February 10, 2014). I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A seminar by the European Parliament's Pre-Accession Action Unit on "Security and the Protection of the consumer" will be held in Brussels, Belgium, on 19 February 2014. The issue of accession to this seminar is submitted to the General Assembly's approvals under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28.3.1990 and 3620. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman I submit the thesis to your votes...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0049par0373	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit01spe0047par0374	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0047par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 56th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly. Now, I'm going to re-offer the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. We have another vote. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly On March 5, 2014, a meeting of the European Parliament's Committee for Women's Rights and Gender Equality will be held on March 5, 2014 in Brussels, Belgium's capital city, on the basis of the Commission for Women's Rights and Gender Equality. The issue of accession to this meeting is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday (February 4th 2014), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. On January 31, 2014, it was proposed on Tuesday (February 4th 2014) that the proposed parliamentary inquiry proposal for the economic policies imposed by the MP of İzmir and MP of the UMP Group Oktay Vural, which has been implementing 11 years of economic policies by AKP (the AKP) in the wake of developments in the post-profit and corruption operation should be read in the General Assembly to determine the damage caused by the short and long-term increase of the debt, the damage caused by the risk of wooing, and the problems of the Central Bank policies and the resolving of debt. The first word in favour of the National Party's Group's proposal is Mr. Mehmet Günal. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0050par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you for your calm, our General Assembly has calmed down. Dear friends, the motion for research that we've submitted involves the establishment of a research commission on the causes and effects of recent developments in the economy. As you keep talking, as the Prime Minister stated in all his speeches, there's been a disturbance in the markets. This is partly due to international developments, but also partly to political and economic uncertainty in Turkey. Dear friends, there have been serious developments in the markets following the corruption and bribery operation that began on December 17th, and you know it, but it's not just a result of the impact of the operation, it's a matter of getting it right. The economic policies that have been under way for 11 years, the wrong policies, your lack of co-ordination in the economy, there was a vulnerability. We've told you several times on this platform, on commissions, on newspapers, on television, that if you don't take structural precautions, if you don't take any internal or external shocks, this is a high current explanation, with this externally dependent economy, in an environment where the exchange rate increases vulnerability, increases the risk of courtship, and many sectors in the economy will be negatively affected in the event of the risk of that kind of currency debt. Neither the main cause of the current deficit was the increase in imports, nor the reduction of the foreign trade deficit due to the incentive of imports, nor the effects that these have caused in the markets have been removed, but the markets have been temporarily tried to reduce the fires with daily dressing measures. And where we come from today, we have to say that the king is naked. Unfortunately, we'd rather not have come to this point, and we've warned him many times, but that's how it came to be. Now, a few days ago, the Central Bank announced its interest decision, its currencies; its prime minister -- as he has stated in many speeches from this bench -- praised the reserve collection of the Central Bank on the one hand -- now that I have nothing to do with this interest increase, I would oppose the interest increase if I could. What does it look like? If I had authority, I would change things in the HSYK. It's like saying, "I'll judge these judges." Now, Mr. Prime Minister, when it suits you, when inflation is low, it's the government's success, but when inflation is high, why is it the Central Bank's fault? When we say, "No." Now you come back looking for scapegoats. Look, this isn't the first time that the Prime Minister is looking for a scapegoat, and they've been too hard on our president at the time, Durmis Yilmaz, including some of our ministers. The government has nothing to do with it when it comes to its work; it is nothing but to sin and to seek a scapegoat. So, what about those reserves you keep showing off? So we've asked the Central Bank over and over again if the Prime Minister wants to save this much reserves. So, on the one hand, you say the fiscal lobby, where do those reserves stand? I asked here, and we asked the ministers in writing, and we asked them verbally. A large portion of those reserves are in international banks, which the Prime Minister has complained about, called the facsimile lobby. How much is it at interest? One fifth of what we're paying out, one tenth of what we're paying out, is with interest. What fast is this? What sauerkraut is this? It's the interest lobby. Dear friends, it's a bad policy to bring in a crowd of words here and use them when it suits us, and when it doesn't work out for us, it's a bad policy to look for scapegoats. On the other hand, we looked at this lobby about interest, and now there's a new interest increase. Now, I'd like to go back and ask Mr. Prime Minister; I've asked him before in the budget talks here, and I've asked Mr. Babacan, who is the interest lobby? The National Bank interest lobby that suddenly raises 7 percent to 12? I wonder what the Prime Minister will say to that. The interest lobby, the interest lobby... Who was the interest lobby? Well, now that we've surrendered to what the interest lobby said, I don't get what the interest lobby said, in Turkey, I don't get it. So, where's the interest lobby? Who's making these decisions, putting pressure on the Federal Reserve? I told you before, I'll give you a little refresher if you want. There were two or two visual materials that I had shown before -- there was nothing to say about visual material -- newspaper clippings -- the interest lobby that the prime minister was looking for was found. Do you know when this newspaper is? I showed it to you at last year's budget talks. Do you know where it's written? It was the financial page of the morning paper, and I'm refreshing your memory: "Make the wrong administration pay the people. " To whom does he say? There are three pictures: Mr. Erdem Prime Minister, Mr. Ali Babacan and Mr. Mehmet Simsek. Look, it's the fall of 2012. I passed this on to you in budget talks, and below -- the economic page of the paper -- says that these economic managers are paying interest by keeping interest high, and now, well, what's this increase, the interest lobby? The president of the Central Bank and the concerned ministers represent the interest lobby inside? I'm having a hard time understanding that, dear friends. So it says here that this is going to prevent interest reductions in many areas from Treasury contracts to consumer loans. So it's going to increase interest costs. When? 2012 September 23rd. Dear friends, we have to be careful when we say things, when we say things in the economy. On the one hand, you're all getting up, all of you, our economy ministers, your group presidents, the relevant AKP MPs say: "Sir, there's been so much damage." Who's doing the damage, who's fueling this fight, who's making the markets this way? It's not the same as last week's intervention in interest. And if you had done it on time, if you had raised one point, two points instead of two, the market would have calmed down by now. You're the one who created the interest lobby, so you're the one who came up with the results. Where are we going to figure this out? If we go with this head -- like I said in the past -- we go with the brakemen, the gas guys... Look, just a few days later, on October 10th, I showed you -- on October 10, 2012, when the Central Future Program was announced, he blamed the minister at the time. I'm especially reporting the news of the supporting newspaper, so right now, it's the news of the newspaper that's being discussed, the hand-changing newspaper, not the opposition newspaper. Now we're going through the same thing. What is this lobby now? Mr. Prime Minister -- I'm afraid -- tomorrow, I think he's going to say that the parallel state did this, which, as we understand it, means that he's going to blame it on the parallel state in the economy, the parallel state in the financial markets. Come, here, take responsibility for this. My dear friends, many people here will suffer from this. The private sector, the government, is currently carrying 420 billion in debt papers. Private sector, citizen's debts are clear. There's only 243 billion consumer loans, 93 billion credit card debt, about 335-340 billion citizens in debt, which will increase interest. We've already disgraced the citizen, we haven't kept our promises, we haven't dealt with their pardons. You've come, you've always favoured companies. And you didn't keep your promise to the 4/C. Look, they sent a nice commendation to our rooms. Who's it from, the government? It comes from subcontractors. They sent a certificate of appreciation to the Labour and Finance ministers of the AKP government for failing to keep their commitments, saying they appreciate their success in deceiving them with the promise of the staff. I hope we can address the details of this in the following talks, and I'd like to ask you to support our proposal for the immediate investigation of this matter, the establishment of a commission to assess its effects, its consequences.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0051par0048	Thank you, Mr. Günal. The first word against the Milliyetist Movement Group's proposal is from Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan (Divine Party Party Party). Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0052par0052	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we have at least one thing to talk about here, but the most we need to talk about is the government's 12-year economic policies. Unfortunately, we wouldn't be able to talk about it here until the sea was over and the ship had not given us signs of landing, signs. Well, what if we did? Think of a family. A family man goes out, steals from the outside, steals it, or borrows it or cheats it, whatever its shape, whatever it is, but it's not based on labor, it's not based on effort, it's not based on proper production; it's spending it on children, it's spending it on family. Wife, kids, everyone's happy with their lives, no one's asking. An old grandfather or a smart neighbor in the house, a sane relative, whose money is unknown, will one day return. Look, don't, don't, like this, don't be so hasty. No one listens to this when they say, "When the foreclosure comes to the house, the bicycle under the child, the fur on the lady, the car under the other child, the bracelet of the other, and the refrigerator, it starts screaming. So, unfortunately, Turkey -- I mean, after saying again, unfortunately -- doesn't want to open a parentheses again and show it again. I say, as a citizen again -- came to these points, about to come. Dear friends, for years there's been talk of a current deficit -- years of domestic debt, foreign debt, imports, exports -- but as I said, no one reacts to these issues until the tip of the needle personally touches the tip of the screwup. Now let's talk numbers, dear friends. Now, a fiscal lobby was going on for a while, and the Prime Minister said: "There's an economy of rants in this country; there's people making money out of rants and interest. So, they built a network, they want to take me down. O nation of Muhammad, come save me! E, save yourself. If you can't do anything, just say it in Arabic, in Turkish, in French, in English; if you can't do anything, the Bank of People, the Bank of Agriculture, the Bank of Foundations, tell them, "I can't afford banks, but I'm taking interest out on all banks under my government and my administration." So, what's the big deal that you suddenly have to raise interest to three times what even markets estimate, four times what they think? My dear friends, that doesn't mean it's just a bunch of idle bullying. Israel wants to take me down, the Jewish lobby wants to take me down. These are the real fathers of the world's financial sector, the main executives, those are the ones you mean to say something against them if you can, get into an account book! I say again, if you can afford it, you can cut back on farm bank, public bank, foundation bank, loan interest. So we don't say "zero." We say "zero." You can't. Put it down... Well, I can't download it, there are conditions in the world. Look at what the world is doing. Look, the entire Islamic world, 56 states, 57 states -- because there are partial members, every year -- has $900 billion in exports -- and 75 percent of that is based on oil, not real exports -- is exporting $950 billion in Germany alone. 56 Islamic countries and 57 Islamic countries cannot produce as much as one Germany. If you can't plan these productions properly, if you can't make a decent investment in industry, employment, tourism, agriculture, livestock, if you can't build a five-year, ten-year-old, 20-year-old master project, I'll get money from Saudi Arabia. When we're doing an account on the exchange now, the money in the pocket of a whole country has dropped by 30 percent in the last year, dear friends, the exchange has increased by 30 percent. I was just finishing up at the university when Turgut Özal came to power, in the early 80s, Turkey had exports of about $2 billion a year, with imports of around $36-3.7 billion, scissors between imports and exports around 1.65-1.7. You're bragging today, you're saying we exported $1151 billion. So, how much import did you do? You've also imported 251 billion dollars. The scissors are the same. So multiply, divide, collect, whatever's the difference between imports and exports in 1980, you still haven't covered the same difference today. So, what's to be done? There's $243 billion in consumer loans. Everybody owes me. The next five years, all the families are in debt, all the families. Credit cards turned into a disaster. He eats from his debt-eating pouch, then turns around and gets a good beating. Again, the private sector's external debt was 43 billion dollars in 2002, while in 2013 it reached 255.3 billion dollars in the third quarter of 2013. Well, I swear it's beautiful! In 2002, $43 billion was borrowed by private companies, reaching 255.3 billion today; an investment, a beautiful, pleasant thing. Well, can you afford it? If you can afford it, that's fine. Good for you. In dollars, in currency, in currency, in blood, in sugar, in urine, in all the tests, if you can keep up the balance, you need to put on a big medal, but today only short-term loans are 107.6 billion dollars, long terms are 147.6 billion dollars, and again the short-term debt of the private sector came to $107.6 billion in 2002. The 2014 private sector loan payment is 129 billion dollars. Again, if you can afford it, well done, bravo, $500 billion if you can afford the balance, I've invested this much, I've invested this much, I've paid this much, I've paid this much, I've paid this much, I've contributed this much of the non-official product, I've contributed to production, I've contributed to the country. If you can say that, well done, but that's not it, that's the problem. And what's owed on this currency right now, for example, is $135 billion of banks' total loans only on currency. Those in debt over the exchange are in a panic. You might say, "Sir, what is it, we already have exports. "E, you have a deficit of over $100 billion, far below the import of your exports. Where are you gonna turn it off? So there's something seriously wrong with all these points, there's serious problems, and it's not easy for you to turn them off. So, where was the mistake, the mistake? So, I also mentioned at the beginning of this twelve-year period -- in part at the beginning of my talk -- the preparation of Turkey's decent industrial, tourism, education, culture, agriculture, animalism plan. You took the money, we made the road to Duble, we built the third bridge to the Bosphorus, we invented another throat. You're a contractor, contractor! TUSKON is crying out; industry, KOBIIST, Antwerp, Kayseri, Denizli, Marash; Syria, Iraq, Middle East, Africa, exporters, biscuits, and middle industrial goods; because you have not been able to deliver a decent loan to them. Contracting is so easy. Minister of Transport Mr. Buli Yıldırım was sitting here, he gave me 1 quadrillion tenders in my district, on Diyarbakır and Van roads. Let's do it for 500 trillion dollars as Diyarbakır contractors. I said, "Bring it. Let's do it for 500 trillion dollars." There's no sound because when you give a loan to the industrialist, when you give it a chance, it doesn't have to be random, it doesn't have to be tricky. Dear friends, the sea is dead, you've set up the rant economy and you'll pay for it. God help the people.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0053par0064	Thank you, Mr. Tan. In favour of the nationalist Movement Party Group's proposal, the final word is for İstanbul MP Müslim Sarı. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0054par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge in favor of the party's group proposal for nationalist movement. I salute you all. Congressmans, we have been told for years from this bench that both in budget talks and on pure occasions, the fragility of the Turkish economy has grown every day, and the economy is rapidly moving towards a crossroads. As we say these things, as we talk about them, the lawmakers of the ruling party have no such thing. We break growth records, we break records, we grow up as big as China. We're the world's only economy that isn't affected by the crisis, one of its uninfected economies. But do you know where we are today? Look, I'm not saying this, but all international economists say that today the Turkish economy is one of the five most fragile economies in the world: Brazil, the South African Republic, India, Indonesia and Turkey. And worse, Turkey is the most fragile of these five fragile economies. Today we are at a point where global developments in the United States are one of Turkey's most affected countries, Turkey is one of the most affected by the operations of the Federal Reserve in the United States or the negative developments in the global field. And why is that? Look, I don't want to oversell it, but I'm going to say a few things, and I'm going to give you a few digits: Today in Turkey, the real sector's foreign currency deficit is 165 billion dollars. So this means that the debt of the entire real sector, the COBI, the coaches, the plowmen, all companies producing jobs in Turkey, all companies producing foreign currency in Turkey, their obligations are 165 billion dollars in foreign currency. This means that if national money loses 10% value -- after all, it's lost 30 percent value in the last few months -- these companies are going to write down $16.5 billion in damages, it's going to say damage. Look, we lived the 2001 crisis with $20 billion in banking. Then the BDDK was established and the banking sector position gaps were improved, monitored, audited. But despite what we've been saying here for years, the AKP government has done nothing to oversee the real sector's exchange positions deficits. Today we face a very serious risk with a $165 billion exchange position deficit. See, another thing: Turkey's foreign financing, which Turkey needs for the next year, is about 230 billion dollars. Look, in the next year, Turkey is due for $168 billion of previous debts. What are you going to do? You can either take it out of your pocket and pay off those debts, or you can borrow it again if you don't pay up. You need $168 billion, plus a current deficit, $60 billion; the current account deficit you have to finance next year is $228 billion. And where do you have to get this money, under what circumstances, in what conjunctural? It's a conjunctural conjunctive, which is increasingly borrowing funds in the world. At $2 trillion, at $3 trillion, today it's down to $1 trillion, so it's the economy of Turkey today that has to come up with a growing financing from a shrinking cake. Therefore, Turkey's economy is one of the most fragile economies in the world today. We're not just saying that, but all the international investigators are saying that. We're in a place like this, we're at a fork in the road, and when we're in a place like this, the money is changing, the money is moving from developing countries to developed countries, while the Turkish economy is so fragile that even the student of the University 1st class knows what to do with the pressure of the government of the Central Bank. Look, we all know interest sweeps the market, interest takes all the risks. When you look at the interest of a country, you see all the risks of that country, you see the economic risks of that country, you see the political risks of that country, and you see the social risks of that country, and in a conjuncture like this, the Central Bank needs to increase interest, while the Prime Minister and Your Honor are subject to the pressure of the government, and they're doing a thousand flips to manage the situation. Look, the Central Bank has made the laws of the world's literature; it has increased the corridor, lowered the corridor, increased the exchange rates, reduced the exchange rates, moved on to international literature. For what? Not to increase interest. Because the government was pressuring Mr. Prime Minister because the Prime Minister was pressuring, on the one hand, saying that this institution is an independent institution. On the other hand, those who advocate interest are the ones who lobby interest. What did the Central Bank do where it couldn't raise interest? He started trading the market, he tried to adjust the currency liquidity. There wasn't much he could do, but what happened? From June of last year to today, in seven months, the Central Bank had to give the market $20 billion. Our currency reserves should be 20 billion dollars higher than what they are today, but today they're 20 billion dollars lower. But the exchange has not gone out, the exchange has not been extinguished, and the Central Bank has no choice but to raise interest sharply. But Turkey was the loser, we lost seven months, we lost $20 billion in foreign currency reserves, and today the trust of the Central Bank and the government is a moot point. At the point where we're here today, we're in a tight spot of economics. Look, the big radish is in the saddlebag. Look, the foreigners haven't taken a currency position yet. In Turkey, today, 60 per cent of the stocks in Istanbul are in the hands of foreigners. Today, a significant portion of the government's internal debt is in the hands of foreigners, and today foreigners have not yet joined this caravan. With local investors in Turkey in position today, we have come to this point, and we need to know that trust is the most important thing in the market. Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. AKP officials can't manage the market by demagoging, they have to take positions based on the truth of the market. Each man must know his own responsibility, each man must act on his own responsibility, each man must act on what the market requires. So today, the economy has come to a crossroads, and today we are at a more unsustainable point. Look, there's a conjonk in front of us where growth rates will drop after the interest increase. Turkey must agree to a growth between zero and three years -- not just this year and the year before that. Look, unemployment is going to go back to double digits. At first you said, "8,9," and then you did 9.5, so it looks like we're going to complete over 10 percent of this year. In the following period, unemployment rates will increase, as growth rates decline. Look, inflation didn't hold the targets in any way. The Central Bank and the government, which have been implementing the inflation target for seven years, failed to achieve inflation for a single year. Thus, as national money loses value, life's cost and inflation will also increase, and goals will be lost. So, valuable lawmakers, we have a road map ahead of us: there is a path where growth rates will drop, unemployment rates will increase, inflation will continue to increase, and the cost of life will remain high. Now, we all have to think about this together. The demagogues you've done so far, everything you've shown so far, everything you've said has fallen apart, your whole story has fallen apart, your capped baldness has appeared. This has nothing to do with the developments on December 17th, which would have already started in March with the fragility of the Turkish economy. All these developments on December 17th, and what happened afterwards, just a little bit more, a few more months ahead. Therefore, this has nothing to do with corruption operations, conspiracy against your government -- in truth -- in quotes to your government. So, you have to think rationally, you have to evaluate all of this together. The Turkish economy is at a crossroads, and that's what we've come up with as a result of your actions over the past 11 years in line with that fork in the road. I think you should give up these actions quickly, act according to the requirements of the economy. I salute you all, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0055par0081	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. The last word against the Milliyetist Movement Group's proposal is İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0056par0085	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the motion by the National Movement Party to investigate recent developments in the economy. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, our nation has come to these very difficult days with the coups every ten years and the economic crises of four or five years, and in 2002, it led the Justice and Development Party to power on its own. From that day forward, we've tried to build trust and stability, and we've tried to deal with the coups, and we've tried to interfere with the conspiracies that the national will is trying to build against. Turkey has experienced financial crisis in the world markets in 2008, while all these processes continue, while in 2008, the financial crisis in the world markets, which we express primarily in macroeconomic developments, declines in inflation, decline in interest rates, increased in infrastructure investments, serious improvements in public finances. The biggest known crisis in the world in 1930 was described as a major crisis, a major disaster, a major crisis, but the crisis in 2008 was now becoming more extensive, deeper, and more profound in the world. On the one hand, the world began to shrink, the money supplies began to shrink, while in the process, there were other developments in the United States. In January, the first development arose, and the U.S. was supplying 85 billion dollars a month, and it dropped it to 75, and in a statement a few days ago, it dropped it to 65 billion dollars from 85, 75, and interest rates rose to a certain point in the United States. In all of these developments, Turkey has not left public finance, while reducing public risk in terms of debt rates -- 35 percent -- reduced budget deficits to 1.2 levels -- while the OECD average was 4.3 per cent of this -- its target of 2016 was to reduce it to 0.5 per cent. In an atmosphere like this, Turkey tried to expand its economy and reduce its risks. Dear lawmakers, loans used by the real sector are 19.2 per cent, as stated in the report published by the Central Bank in September 2013. So the real sector used 19 per cent of its total loans from abroad. As of September 2013, the firms' dues would be $23 billion -- the real sector -- to be paid abroad within a year.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0057par0091	It's original, but it's not true.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0056par0092	The real sector will pay for it in a year.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0057par0093	Not according to the number of days left on the clock.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0056par0094	The long-term loans used abroad have an average of 4.3 years, and the total loans used by the real sector have a total of 27 per cent of the amount of loans that are longer than five years. Look, this is the real-estate part, and there's the banking dimension.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0058par0095	Why did the exchange get 30% worth, tell me why, but not the numbers. Why are the interest quadrupled?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0056par0096	When we look at the size of banking, the legislation can give us 20 per cent open positions, the banking sector can't go above that; it's restricted by the BDDK and...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0058par0097	Forget the numbers, get to the bottom of this.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0056par0098	... As of now, the BDDK has no opening positions within the total banking sector. As of today, my meeting with the head of the BDK before I even got here said there was no opening position, and there was only an $800m opening position in the banking sector. Look, valuable lawmakers have been expressed in this motion as well as allegations of corruption, allegations of December 17th. I want to draw you a picture: As we go to the 2011 elections, the public predicts that the Justice and Development Party will lose the elections and will not come to power alone, and in some public research, the vote of the EC PARTI was shown less than 30 per cent. However, with a 50 per cent vote in the 2011 elections, the Justice and Development Party came back to power, and, whatever happened, developments began to take place after 2011. On February 7th, an MIT crisis occurred, an intervention in the National Intelligence Agency was attempted. There has been a period of time over this, of travel events -- and there are many regular friends here -- and in his meeting with the representatives here, Mr. Prime Minister -- what would you say, what do you want? Those friends expressed in his meeting: we don't want a third bridge to be built. Dear lawmakers, look, there are a lot of fellow jurists in the talks here, and even though there's a lot of privacy on the case, these lawyer friends -- however it is -- they get information and come to a certain conclusion here, I don't understand. I'm an economist, but even though they're lawyers, they're very easy to talk about here about the confidential case. Those who are behind this, with a few photos they leaked to the media, unfortunately, those who call themselves lawyers, have come to a firm judgment on this.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0059par0101	But you taught me that, you. You taught it to Turkey.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0056par0102	I've just said, we're gonna go all the way to the end of this.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0059par0103	Six months before the trial started, six months before the trial, you did it.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0060par0104	We've told you 500 times here.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0059par0105	Six months ago, when the case wasn't there...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0106	But, you know, people who yell here, people who talk here, they can't go through with it anyway.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0059par0107	Six months ago, when the case was gone...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0108	Dear lawmakers, another issue, look, we never covered up what was done, and we're not gonna cover it up after that. In 2001, there was a financial crisis in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0062par0109	Where's the money, the money?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0110	Now, here comes the money, you'll know where it is.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0063par0111	Where, where?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0064par0112	He went to Bosnia, to Bosnia for imam-haib...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0113	In 2001, there was a major crisis, a banking crisis. Is it true? In Turkey, dozens of banks were transferred to funds, embezzled, 50 billion dollars -- at the cost of that day -- were put into those banks. So, where did the treasure get this money?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0063par0114	Mehmet, don't go in there, it's out of your league.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0064par0115	Lying, lying, not siphoning in 2002.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0116	Where did the treasure get this money? The government took out bonds, high interest, high interest bonds, high interest. If the public is burdened with debt today, those who siphoned those banks in 2001 will take their hands and think: "How did we get them to siphon those banks that day?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0063par0117	You haven't paid for 11 more years?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0118	Look, today this country is still suffering, and today it's still suffering.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0065par0119	Tell me about the stolen money. Tell me about the missing money.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0120	The system is simple.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0066par0121	I think the system is very simple, shoe boxes...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0122	Under the guise of the law, these banks went down, there was a crisis. Okay, there could be a crisis, there could be a crisis in economies, there could be improvements, there could be government measures. But why is the citizen paying for this crisis? Someone's been siphoning money, and on the other hand, government bonds are being filled into these banks.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0066par0123	Yeah, yeah, well, somebody's siphoning the money...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0124	Friends, look, those who were in power that day didn't pay for this. That's how you squandered $50 billion, you siphoned it, now, don't go out there and play around.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0067par0125	Why didn't you ask, you've been in power for 11 years?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0066par0126	Ask him what he's paying for it!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0127	You were supposed to follow him. It doesn't work when you're out of the government, that's where you're gonna make it worth your while.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0066par0128	1,132 pages of report.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0129	Look, I want to talk about something else here. Some friends came out of their lawyers -- TUSIAD, Turkish Industrialists and Businessmen's Association -- they became heroes too, and they made statements about the economy.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0066par0130	Open it and read it, there's a commission report.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0131	Yeah, weren't all the guys who robbed these banks members of TUSIAD? Did TUSIAD do any sanctions? Did he ban them from membership? Did he give them a punishment? As these are being robbed, it's all legal, everything according to international standards, then the law is working, but today... the president of TÜSIAD has recently made a statement. Thanks to some of our congressman friends, he's a hero.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0068par0132	We're against all thieves.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0133	...he considers himself a hero, sir, there is no law left in the country. He says, "No investment comes in this country, no resources come in from abroad."
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0069par0134	Members of TUSIAD have made five times as much money in your time, five times as much.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0135	Yeah, when there was $50 billion being robbed in 2001...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0069par0136	You served TUSIAD, the ministry. You served TUSIAD.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0137	...when the law was unrecognizable, according to what international norm was funding this country? Is that when he was coming and he's not coming now?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0069par0138	TUSCON went down, MISIAD went down.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0139	Look, in 2008, we reached the end of the stand-by deal with the IMF. Will it be renewed or not?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0069par0140	You are the authority of TUSIAD.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0141	Those who understand that the government will not renew the deal with the IMF...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0070par0142	The government knows, why did they make a deal?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0143	...he immediately began a provocation, a propaganda: we sink, we die. We can't pay these debts unless the money comes from the IMF.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0071par0144	TUSIAD has increased their money fivefold, and TUSKON is bankrupt.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0061par0145	Despite the crisis in 2008 and 2009, Turkey fulfilled its obligations at the time. Why? Because some of the loans are already being used by businessmen, their own money, in banks abroad. I say we will be against this motion, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0072par0148	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0073par0149	Mr. President, the clerk spoke of bank siphoning in 2002, giving talks to our government.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0072par0150	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0074par0151	Ask them whether there's been a robbery or not, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0075par0152	Don't tell me there's a thief. They're suing him.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0076par0155	Dear friends, a member of the Justice and Development Party who just arrived, a member of the Justice and Development Party, said that the banks had been siphoned during the 57th Government, with false words, saying the numbers that were coming out of their mouth, and it reached $50 billion. It's a total lie, but the AKP has made you believe as well by repeating the lie in Goebbels's tactic. I've told you a few times, and I'll tell you again: during the 57th Reich, the bank embezzlers moved to the front of the law. Embezzlement began in 1997 when the Constitutional Court cancelled the Banking Law. A petition was enough to set up a bank when there were procedures to open a grocery store. So the thieves, the hosers, came out at that time. The first thing the 57th government did was organize the Banking Law in June 1999, according to the cancellation of the Constitutional Court. Number two: He established the Banking Board of Editors and Control to repair the public damage caused by siphoning, followed by the ears of those who siphoned the bank, one by one, in front of the courthouse. As MP, you may not know this, you have to learn, you don't have to slander! Shame, it's a sin, you're saying it over and over again. How can you speak like that as a representative of a nation? Hosing... take the mirror if you want, take a look at yourself. Come here, tell me about the safe, tell me about the table, tell me about the shoebox, the photos are there... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, you must obey the truth, the law. As a representative of the nation, you must not go outside the law, outside the political code.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0077par0160	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0078par0161	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0079par0162	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0077par0163	We haven't voted yet. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0080par0165	I'm talking about bullying, he claims I'm using false testimony.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0077par0166	Now, please tell me you're not lying, Mr. Mush, so no more taunting. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0080par0169	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, I'm here to inform you that 22 banks have been transferred to the fund in the 2001 crisis and a very serious burden has been placed on our citizens from these banks that have been transferred to the fund.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0081par0170	Now, Mr. President, what is this fellow responding to?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0080par0171	Now, to come out here and be a hero, there's no point in claiming what I'm saying is a lie. This happened in the 2001 crisis, and there was a three-year period of power, three and a half years old. If such a thing had happened, why didn't you take precautions? Why did you wait for the crisis to break out? Then why didn't you get on top of him? Why did you wait for 2001?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0082par0172	Why don't you give me 12 years of power?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0080par0173	Why did you wait until 2001 if it was done in 97? You were in power in 99, you were in power until the end of 2002, so if you had taken the necessary steps, you would have made the necessary legal arrangements.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0083par0174	Why haven't you done it in 11 years, 11 years? What have you been doing for 11 years?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0080par0175	Now get up from here and lie. I don't accept statements like that, and at this point, I want to rephrase that people are being paid a very heavy price. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0084par0178	You've been in power for 12 years, present your document, document, document. You've been in power for 12 years, it'll come out.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0085par0179	Mr. President, the speaker has held the National Movement Party responsible for the crisis in 2002 by repeating his words in the same way.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0086par0180	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0087par0181	Were you there, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0086par0182	Look, the more I object, the more tense it gets. So let me ask you...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0087par0183	We didn't look at it differently.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0086par0184	Mr. Bal says he repeated the wrong information. He was a member of the government then.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0087par0185	But he's giving his own answers.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0086par0186	No, he accepted 97, Mr. Mush accepted 97, but 97 was not in power. I know that date, too, so... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0088par0189	Mr. President, right now, the Justice and Development Party has been infected by...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0089par0190	Give me the account of 22 banks.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0088par0191	... He's here when he's supposed to pay for millions of dollars, and he's trying to make an accusation against the Nationalist Movement Party by going through old notebooks like a Muslim Jewish merchant. I've just said it, you've repeated it a hundred thousand times, and I'll repeat it a million times when I can. The problem with banking is not the problem of the 57th government, where the National Movement Party is in power. The tornado about banking is the balloon that exploded in 1997, when some scavengers assumed the identity of bankers after the Banking Law was cancelled by the Constitutional Court, tricking the citizen with high interest and collecting large amounts of deposits. For this reason, I answer you: The 57th government has just been established, its first measure has been to take the measure in banking; for that reason, it has taken out the Banking Law, and has taken out the BDK Law, and used the Banking Law to bring former ministers who built hoses to the front of the judiciary in Bulgaria, the United States. Now, your embezzlers have been in the government for eight days and signed off on their duties in order to erase evidence of theft, corruption, and evidence of corruption for eight days. And one day you'll have to pay for it in the chest and in the courtroom.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0090par0198	I'd like to put the nationalist movement group's proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0091par0199	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit02spe0090par0200	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0090par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 56th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The nationalist Action Party's proposal was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. We're taking another vote. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration. I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The number-one Law Proposal (2/296) has not been discussed and concluded by the Commission since your presidency was transferred to the commission. Under Article 37 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I demand and demand that my legal proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda. 12/03/2012 Here you go, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0092par0014	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. The proposed law was related to the problems of the Van earthquake and the Van earthquake about two and a half years ago, where the tradeshop was especially delayed to 1 January 2014. Of course, the purpose was, but it's been almost two and a half years since the purpose even came to light, as it was not the goal. So the time we proposed at the time has already expired. There have been great dramas, and they are still happening, which means there are still great problems going on in Van. Of course, as a legislature, you're lawmakers, we're lawmakers, we're lawmakers, we're politics, we're political institutions, we're a legislature. Our goal, after all, is to bring services to citizens, solve the problems of citizens and improve the lives of citizens. That's supposed to be our goal when you look at it. We'll continue the bag of legislation in a little while today. When you look at the bag law, there's the Highway Law, there's hiring, there's regulations for disabled people, there's Internet regulations, there's online censorship. I mean, the bag is the law, the soup is the law. Now, who do we make these laws for, why do we do them, so we do them to improve the lives of others? Here comes the law on Van. Two and a half years, and you're going to reject it. Now, look, Internet freedom -- it's going to come up today, it's going to come up tomorrow -- concerns about 40 million people. Again, the average age of these 40 million people is about 30. I don't know if Congress has an average age of 50. I think it's about 50 to 55. We'll bring a bill for our 30-year-old brothers. Well, did we ask them that? There's a big industry there -- when you look at it -- so there's about 40,000 publishing companies on the Internet, and there's hundreds of thousands of people working there; did we ask them, did we consult them? Well, then -- as I said before -- it's good to have it arranged, but for whose sake are we going to make this arrangement? Are we going to do this in international standards, or are we going to do this in the standards of the European Union, or are we going to do this in order for the government to conceal things at its request, to cover things up? So it's like the trip or the corruption operation on December 17th. Look, a lot of websites have been shut down before the law has passed, before the law has passed. I even got a heads-up about closing my page. In essence, the execution, the judiciary committed a constitutional crime here, and then they said, "It's a constitutional crime." So there's been some sort of intervention in living here. Well, when you look at what was forbidden here, why was it banned here, especially when you look at it, there's Morning, there's ATV, there's all over the place right now, there's all this stuff, there's all over the Internet, there's all over the news, there's a visual media, there's a pool of business people there -- there's a recording in the voices. Well, aren't we going to ask them on behalf of the nation, so as opposition lawmakers in law enforcement, as the main opposition party, aren't we going to ask them to run it? Will you not ask Us the day after tomorrow when you are in opposition, and when we are in power? You'll ask. Now, look, there's a 10% commission confession in the papers today, and there's a minister's name on it. Now, am I not going to ask you that, or am I not going to make a motion to ask you about it? My phones have been ringing off the hook all morning, and I'm gonna ask you, both you and the head of the executive and the Prime Minister will answer, agree or not. So that's basically the essence of democracy when you look at it. We need to run democracy by all institutions and rules. I'm going back... and I know you're going to refuse soon, and I'm not asking about him. But today, I've just spoken to Alparslan Karacan. At minus 32 degrees, the animal carries water on its back to drink to the place where it lives and satisfy its needs. And instead of working for them and improving their lives for them, we're unfortunately spending some time on things related to our own fields or our own presidents, we're wasting time. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Again, I'll leave this bill to your conscience. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0093par0025	Thank you. On the proposal -- a member of parliament -- Mr. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0094par0029	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs on our proposal of the law. I salute your high council. On October 23rd and November 9, 2011, after the earthquake in Ercish and Van Nah, 644 of our citizens lost their lives, more than 3,000 of our citizens were injured, were disabled, were homeless, were orphaned children without parents. It's really hard to describe this pain. May Allah never cause such suffering to happen to anyone again. I am one of those who know this pain well, because we too as Ableeli experienced a heavier picture in the August 17, 1999 earthquake; over 20,000 of our people lost their lives, over 40,000 injured, 600,000 homeless. However, our people do well to heal the wounds and ease the pain by showing good solidarity during such difficult times. That's what he showed both in the earthquake and in the Van earthquake. Although the citizen had done more than enough, unfortunately, the government was unable to do its part. Look, I'll give you two examples: 15 years after the August 17th earthquake, we still have 3,750 medium-damaged buildings in Kopeli. The sad part is that there are still 3,280 of them still sitting, and there are some who are trying to survive. I'm asking you, in a possible marina earthquake, these buildings will collapse, so what are you going to say, what are you going to say, what are you going to say, fate or what are we going to do? I warn the government and the authorities that the earthquake is our reality, we need to learn to live with it. Please stop burying your heads in the sand. If anything happens to these people tomorrow, you're the only one responsible. I'm already doing the reminder. It's been two years since the Van earthquake. As a Republican People's Party delegation, we went to visit Van. Sadly, when we visited the container cities, the same negligence, the same indifference, the same insensitivity appeared once again. Despite all the help gathered from all over Turkey on the basis of volunteering, despite a 50 billion Turkish dollar figure collected as an earthquake tax after the Shelley earthquake, what happened in Van Goshen is a tragedy. 260 families remain in container cities. The sad thing about these container cities, where there were widows, children, sick people, about 500 people, was that, unfortunately, the water and electricity were cut off, and a sad part of the job is still dead. Can you imagine, dear lawmakers, why, despite the amount of money that's been collected, human rights of life have been taken from you, and water and electricity in the housing environment has been cut off? Get them out of here as soon as possible, so these containers can be replaced by Syrian refugees? I'll leave it to your conscience. Can you imagine, these earthquake victims in container cities now found the last resort, at the tip of their voice, to go on a hunger strike here? Maybe it's the first time in the world, I don't know, but I'll leave it to your conscience if it bothers you. Dear lawmakers, we've moved this inhuman drama of these people to Congress as all opposition parties, you didn't care, we've announced it to the public with a press release, you didn't care, although I asked the Prime Minister about these problems six months ago, I haven't received any response yet. Dear lawmakers, your understanding and attitude are neither in the form of a social state nor in the sense of a conscience. What can I say? I'd just like to address your human feelings: Come and support this proposal of law. I expect you to help men in the disaster zone to address the economic difficulties of our people, to bring life to life in the region, to address the psychological and social problems of the people of the region. I expect your support in our motion. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0095par0038	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. He has been nominated for a free membership in the Justice and Development Party Group in the Foreign Commission, Mr. Çişdem Münevver Ödük. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Van MP Kemal Aktaş has been nominated for a membership in the Human Rights Review Commission, which falls to lawmakers who are not members of the political party. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel has been nominated for a membership of non-political party members who have been idle in the Public Economic Initiative Commission. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of Bart's MP, Mr. Yilmaz junç and 77 MPs in the 3rd place of the Law Proposal and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the 4th place, Mr. Oktay Vural, MP of the Social Policy Group, Minister of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister of the Law for Change in the Law and Law, Mr. Erkan Akçay and Minister of the National Movement Party of Manisa, Mr. Oktay Akçay and Social Insurance Party, Deputy of the Social Insurance Party, Mr. Oktay Vural, Minister of the Anti-Terror Policy Act, Minister of the Law for Change, Mr. Erçay Akçay and the National Movement Party for Decisions, and Mr. Oktay Vural, Minister of Social Insurance and Minister of Social Affairs, We will make an offer to make changes in the Anti-terrorism Act; We will make an amendment to the Security Act on behalf of the Social Law, and We will make it with the Constitution of the Constitution and the Constitution of the Constitution and the Constitution of the Social Insurance Act of the Social Security and the Security Act of the Social Insurance Committee and the Constitution with the Constitution. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The 3rd chapter of the draft bill, which was considered the main law, according to Article 91 of the 55th Amendment, dated 30/1/2014, was completed. There are three motions in the 60th article, which I shall have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the terms of the "departmental capacities, the age, the quality of the vehicles, the need to demand" in Article 60 of the 524 rows of the proposed Bill of Law shall be changed into "accessibility, age, qualities, demands." Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Günal Özcan Yeniçeri Reşat Right Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the second joke of Article 60 of Law 524 be changed in the following manner. "a) The terms to be looked for in real and legal persons who want to conduct transport, agency and transport, and shipping and shipping, and the conditions to be searched for, given authorization documents, professional competence documents and transport cards and other documents and times, covering, types and shapes, the types of transportation capacity necessary for each form of documents, the age of the vehicles, the status of the vehicles, the volumes and the issues to be envisioned in the terminal services," he said. İdris Bauken Abdullah Levent Tünzel Pervin Buldan I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 60 of the current bill. As a clause (b), we propose that the following statement be added. B) None of the fees mentioned in the (a) joke are taken for a real person who wants to do transport activity. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu chooses Vahab İzzet Cetin Kadir Gökmen Öğüt Ramis Topal Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0096par0096	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0095par0097	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0097par0098	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0095par0099	Mr. Aslanoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0098par0101	Well, don't forget what we talked about on the Commission; you promised, you promised, all of you on the Commission, including bureaucrats.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0095par0102	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0098par0103	Very valuable MPs, I spoke here last week on the Commission the week before. All the MPs and bureaucrats and Mr. Secretary, you're right, this needs to be changed. He said, "It's about the K documents." To your consciences, a driver who takes his bread out of a car gets $17,000 for a K document, and 17,000 for those who own a thousand cars. Is that a conscience?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0099par0105	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0100par0106	It's justice!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0098par0107	And he took the car, and the driver friend couldn't pay off his debt, so he sold the car two months later; his money's on fire. Guys, what we're saying here is, don't take a car from one or take it very low. You never buy from a guy with a thousand cars, but what's his sin, what's his sin? They're tradesmen, they're making their bread out of stone, they're the chauffeur's tradesmen. We've said it again: the process of the cycles. If he's paying a price, don't let him pay a price if he buys another car for at least five years. Fair enough to you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Lütfü Minister promised we'd change that. He said. But you said no without knowing the subject. In particular, the Commissioner, my fellow commissioner, he was there in the debate, and he went into a very positive argument. But I'm amazed. Again, the K document and the C document are mixed with the C document: International transport, K document domestic transport. International movers go out and buy their diesel from abroad, but are there the same competitive conditions for transportation in Turkey, friends? At least prevent this from happening to our friends who have a car, who somehow pull their bread out of the stone... they're poor, day and night, they're on that back of that car 24 hours a day, but you're from everywhere... how many K documents are there: K1, K2, K3, K3, K4. My dear friends, these are the problems of the driver's shop. You're being scorned. If you want to prevent road transport in some way... it's a lack of conscience, I'm telling you, if you're trying to discipline the drivers by hitting them on the back and leaving them in a difficult position... when there's no railway transportation in Turkey. Dear friends, once again, this law will continue for three more days. I'd like to have a minister of interest here, but the concerned minister will come here one day, and one day he'll come here. So, Mr. Secretary, let's not discuss this clause, and don't say no to this clause. Let's not discuss this clause again or again or again, let's go back to this clause with the monopoly negotiations, and let's hope so. What do we hope, the poor go away, the bread goes away, the truck sells, the truck does it. Don't hold back. Friends, you can't take the bread from the driver's shop. It's called... you're taking the bread from the driver's shop. Two: There is the next article, which has sold K documents to the Turkish Association of Chambers Stock Exchanges, instead of the Federation of Turkey's Drivers and Automobiles. Friends, the Federation of Drivers and Automobiles of Turkey is responsible for this, it's hers, she has to sell it. What does that have to do with the Rooms and Stock Exchange Association? For whatever reason, any gentleman decides to sell K documents to the Association of Rooms and Stock Exchanges. The poor driver, the poor room, if there's any money left, let them keep it. Friends, change this clause before the law is over; let's negotiate the monopoly. Let's change this clause. It's a sin, it's called guilt. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0101par0119	The Commissioner will tell you why you said no. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0102par0121	Now, Mr. Aslanoglu is actually right about what he's brought up, but with this legal arrangement for the current procedure, the institution is authorized by regulations, in terms of the amount of time, in terms of the amount of time. There's never been anything like this before. It's just obvious in the law. It's a right. And even if our first citizen buys his truck for 540 days, that is, five years, after he sells the truck, he buys a new truck, that document is valid, and he doesn't pay for it for the second time. Work on it continues. I agree with the study, but there's not much more to be done in the current practice. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0103par0125	Mr. President, I want an explanation.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0104par0126	Why?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0103par0127	So, Mr. Commissioner, what commission does he sit here as spokeswoman of?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0104par0128	What commission do you speak for?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0105par0129	I'm the Secretary of the Plan and Budget Commission.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0104par0130	Plan and Budget Commission.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0106par0131	Well, you're sitting as the Secretary of the Plan and Budget Commission, but this clause concerns the Ministry of Customs in Article 34 of the Law on Transport of the Highways, which concerns the Ministry of Customs. That's why, Mr. President, when you're in a bag, everything gets mixed up, so that's what I'm trying to explain here. It's a lot more complicated when you're in a bag, so if you had representatives of your relevant commissions, you'd be a lot more...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0104par0133	I get it, I get it. Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the second joke of Article 60 of Law 524 be changed in the following manner. "a) The terms to be looked for in real and legal persons who want to conduct transport, agency and transport, and shipping and shipping, and the conditions to be searched for, given authorization documents, professional competence documents and transport cards and other documents and times, covering, types and shapes, the types of transportation capacity necessary for each form of documents, the age of the vehicles, the status of the vehicles, the volumes and the issues to be envisioned in the terminal services," he said. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0107par0142	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0104par0143	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0108par0144	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0104par0145	Mr. Kaplan, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0109par0147	Mr. President, with this bag of laws, I'm afraid it's all mixed up. That's why I've just asked for an explanation because here -- Mr. Aslanoglu explained -- the driver's shop has very serious problems. An explanation is being brought in, it doesn't solve its problems, it doesn't solve its tax situation... when a road of 40 kilometers is blocked, it drops to a one-way journey distance of 40 kilometers. We've said this many times, 40 kilometers is one lane after that because it closes 40 kilometers. Again, the matter of the document, the matter of the transition from Habur, the problems on the other side, there are none of them, but there are introductions. I'm surprised sometimes. Now, while we're dealing with this on the highway, the government is dealing with red lipstick on the airlines, my friends. When you ban red lipstick on Turkish Airlines planes, then, you know, when you ban burgundy, pink, framing colors, your hair is banned, but in Turkish Airways, you watch their ads with red lipstick on their screens, and there's something weird about that. It's actually a trot-balans thing. This whole "rot ball" thing is about how you can't keep up with a law, whether it's a bag or not. Look, all the media's been talking about this for a week. You put Internet bans on this place. What did a court do about these Internet bans? He forbade a congressman's motion to ask questions. After that, TİB wrote, saying that you posted it on a news site, take it off your website. What happened next? It was on the Capitol Web page. So the T24 news site, friends, let's be clear. And a ttbmm. Gov. There's such a thing as tribmm. Gov. From one side, the judiciary intervenes, and from another side, the execution intervenes. I mean, they're interfering with Congress, so they've got the ball, they've got the crossfire, they've got the people's will, they've got the crossfire, we've got the silence. For the first time, a government, a minister, the Minister of Transport, apologized about it. No, friends, nothing special. It is not the mindset that decides to ban the administration within four hours. If you say you're bringing freedom of thought, freedom of expression, to protect your rights of character, to protect your rights of character, then you're interfering with commercial life, political ideas, and then you're interfering with freedom of thought, organization, and when you do that, you're even a victim of a system in which you're on coup regimes, and that system shoots you first. There's a way out of this. From here, we recommend that the government assemble four parties before entering these substances and remove these four hours of forbidden mentality and regulation. As the Peace and Democracy Party, we say that you cannot ignore the 90th article of the Constitution. There are criteria for legal thinking, freedom of organization. You cannot ignore the ECHR criteria, the European Convention. Again, you can't ignore the regulations in our laws. Nor can you ignore the authority of the law, which is given by the Civil Law. When you mix the stem with the hay, you create an empire of fear in the land of bans. That's not the answer to anything. If I were the government, I'd do one thing: I'd bring in a full-blown warning model, not just for a four-hour curfew. That warning model only goes to websites, websites. An unwarranted victim goes from there to a court of justice. That's the way the judge solves it, and I draw attention. Let's talk about this before we get to these ingredients, and we'll make this right. Don't let anyone enter the city council again, friends. It's a warning from us. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0110par0154	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the terms of the "departmental capacities, the age, the quality of the vehicles, the need to demand" in Article 60 of the 524 rows of the proposed Bill of Law shall be changed into "accessibility, age, qualities, demands." Reşat Right (Tokat) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0111par0161	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0110par0162	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0112par0163	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0110par0164	Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0113par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 60 of the Law Bill 524. I salute the High Council. Of course, as far as transportation goes, everyone has serious problems from trucker to taxi driver to taxidermy. In this bag of legislation, everyone wants to find a place in their own way, and because of the fact that these people are suffering a great deal of damage, they have a very serious demand for everything from the diesel to the tire, to the new vehicle, to the purchase of a car without VAT, without an OTV, or at work, at the point of fuel use. We see how hard they are when we listen to their troubles, of course. We have truckers in our slap county. Some of our truckers say they haven't had contact in almost two months, and that they're having a hard time bringing bread to their families. We have to listen to these people's problems, we have to solve their problems. Respected lawmakers have brought up our friends before, one of the most important problems of our truckers' trades is a K1 warrant. The amount determined for 2014 in the K1 warrant is $17,594. So here's the thing: the company that owns 50 vehicles and the company that owns one car, they pay that price, which is 17.594. Dear friends, but this is a very heavy and unacceptable find. These people in particular say that if we have a vehicle, let's pay a thousand liras, let's pay 2,000 liras with two vehicles, or if he has 50 vehicles, let him pay 50,000 lira. It's a righteous request, a righteous request. We are bound to meet this righteous demand. Because, you see, we are obliged to accept that the movers who work on their limited capital are in a difficult position in the face of these provisions brought with the increasing fuel prices, the income tax, the tax on motor vehicles, the value of addition tax, the special consumption tax, the mandatory insurance premiums, as well as their limited capital. I mean, these people can't bring bread to their homes anyway, they're trying to work under very difficult conditions. And I think it's worth everyone's appreciation that he's come up with a lot of money like $17,594. There must be a solution. In this bag of laws, especially our tradesmen have great expectations. Of course, according to the first road transport regulations published in 2004, C2 officials have the authority. While these are only capable of carrying international merchandise, they have been authorized to carry both international and domestic goods with a later change. This leads to unfair competition. These people are also renting authority documents to others, and therefore, when they give them to the second party, they get the OTV engine without a VAT, without a VAT. In some ways, this leads to serious injustice. Respected lawmakers, the other issue -- especially we have to say this -- must be saved from the truck infestation of habitats. Look, it's time for transport villages to be built outside of the settlements to the entrance and exits of major cities. So you have to gather them in a certain way, there has to be only one distribution from the shipping villages, but interestingly, no social opportunity is being provided to the movers who are contributing to the country's economy in the 21st century, with their capital and hard work. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid we don't give this opportunity to our brothers and sisters who need to be transported to restaurants, buffets, and even hotels. So at every point, he buys expensive diesel, expensively, you know, trying to make a living under very difficult conditions -- in order, like the tradesmen in Tokat, he can only get his turn every two months, every three months. He says that our people who are in such severe trauma must have a solution to their problems, that I await the acceptance of the motion we've made about it, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0114par0175	Thank you, Mr. Right. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in article 61, which I read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 61 of the current bill of law. We would like to ask that the statement of the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey be removed. Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Muslim Yellow Izzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first joke (f) be replaced in the following manner by Article 4925, which has been replaced with Article 61 of Law Bill 524. Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Günal Özcan Yeniçeri Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı It is cancelled by the Ministry in the case that those authorized do not comply with the protocol or contract provisions and the relevant legislation. I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 61 of the law proposed in 524 rows be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Altan Tan Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0115par0202	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0114par0203	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0116par0204	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0114par0205	Mr. Corporate, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0117par0206	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. For a long time, this week, we've been discussing the bill drafted by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy under the name of the law. But there is one thing that I would like to bring to your attention, in terms of the work of parliament and the logic of the preparation of this law, is that the date of this law's arrival coincides with December 17th. As you know, after December 17th, Turkey is experiencing a major earthquake. For a long time, Turkey's economic policies have taken away what was in the pockets of the people of Turkey. In particular, the play in foreign currency courses has made the situation of 76 million citizens of Turkey who live in poverty and poverty much more difficult -- with the intervention of the Central Bank -- which was later brought in as a precautionary measure. Now, this law clause that's being discussed is more of an assessment of the conditions of the tradesmen, and it was just about the roads. However, this is not the expectation of the people of Turkey, whose life has become much stronger, whose life conditions have been aggravated, their eating, their drinking, their transportation, their increase in basic services and production materials. That's not what the government and the Council of Ministers should bring to the House. If we are saying that after all these recent events, the people of Turkey's money, their liras have lost 30 per cent of value: Here are the numbers of January inflation, Turkish lira has been devalued. What, then, is the loss of Turkish lira in exchange for foreign currency, and the expectation that bank debtors expect protective provisions in the face of these interest hikes? At first, the reduction of working hours and the protection of wages and salaries -- even this is not enough -- should be adapted, upgraded to these new conditions, the protection of consumers, producers, workers, pensioners, pensioners -- should be taken in this direction. So to make new increases, oil products need to be automatically tied up to raises, not to make life expensive, to be standardized, to be fixed, even, to go from talking beans to potatoes, to cheapen these basic consumers, to protect the labourer. That's what we don't do in Congress, in the General Assembly, while we're waiting for legislation. That's why the minimum wage has to be redesigned, union, collective contracts, union rights and collective agreements to be re-opened, wages determined... Now, that's what we, as public defenders, want to draw attention to. There is no way that some of this corruption economy, this theft, this stealing scheme, is rich, when they're growing wealth, when they're making money, when they're making money, it's impossible for all of this crisis to be billed as a burden to the low-income, the wage, the unemployed, the pensioner. So if the Prime Minister says that we didn't get to this point because of these rich people, we're doing politics in this country against rich clubs. If he says that, then he's going to have to bring laws and regulations that will protect 76 million. The workers of this country are waiting for such provisions against profiteers, looters, robbers; the low-income, laborer, tradesman, wants provisions to protect him from these corruption economies, crisis profiteers; here increase the Asgarial fee. Here, freeze the debts to the banks. Lower their working hours so that more workers can work with these fees in this country. We wish our wishes and demands to be taken into consideration by the head of government and government. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0118par0214	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first joke (f) be replaced in the following manner by Article 4925, which has been replaced with Article 61 of Law Bill 524. Muharrem Varlı (Adana) and his friends It is cancelled by the Ministry in the case that those authorized do not comply with the protocol or contract provisions and the relevant legislation. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0119par0222	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0118par0223	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0120par0224	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0118par0225	Mr Varlı, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0121par0227	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 61st amendment of the proposed bill. I salute you all. There's something here that concerns the trucker shop. Of course, before me, Mr. Aslanoglu and Mr. Right said some very nice things about it that would please the trucker's shop. Indeed, the trucker's tradesman is one of the most important tradesmen in this country, who carries a heavy burden, who can see the face of their children night and day, maybe once a month, who spends the night and day on the road. They have a lot of complaints about the cost of diesel, the cost of living, the lack of money. Today, those who run naval operations in Turkey -- most of them are government officials' relatives -- probably -- have a bill like this -- that gives them cheap diesel, old money, $1.5 million, new money -- have to use diesel with a new price of $5.5 million, $5 million in old money. So a lot of them are trying to move their trucks and travel by putting 10 fats on them. Of course, it's damaging the environment, it's damaging the trucker's truck, it's damaging the engine, but since there's no other way to make money, they have to use number 10 oil. Why? It's because the diesel is too expensive. Why is that? That's because the government doesn't own this trucker shop. When we met a trucker from Ceyhan, he said: "I'm loading the thread from here, I'm going to Istanbul, I'm going to Denizli. In five days, I'm going to go to Denizli, so I'm going to get there, and I'm going to come back, and I'm going to come back, and I'm going to come back, and I'm going to come back, and I'm going to have a clear number of number 10 oils, and I'm going to use oil, and I'm going to have 70-80 liras in five days. Think about it, this person tied his whole life to this truck; there's got a tire, there's got oil, there's oil, there's oil, there's oil, there's oil, there's oil, there's oil, there's water, there's water. There's like 70-80 million liras left, but I'm going to Istanbul in five days, and I'm going to Denizli, and I'm coming to Denizli. Now, we're doing a huge injustice to the trucker's shop that's going through this kind of trouble, and to the trucker's shop that we've loaded with such heavy loads, and with this K document, we're doing a huge injustice. Mr. Right and Mr. Aslanoglu have just told us, so now the one with the truck is being paid $17,000, and the one with the 100 trucks is being paid $17,000. Is that a favor from God? So we've been told there's going to be an adjustment in the Commission. Mr. Commissioner said something, but I don't understand what you're saying, but this needs to be fixed right away, and he needs a cure. I mean, is one with 100 trucks and one with a truck? Let's put our hands on our conscience and fix this. At least for those with one truck or a few trucks, let's figure out a different number for those with a few fleets -- a few truck fleets -- for those with more fleets, but you're putting a number on each of them. So, after these heavy entrys into the trucker's shop, there's a tonage application with this K document. I mean, 10 kilograms, 20 kilograms, and they're gonna be fined. I assume you're ordering traffic cops or traffic wardens, the government's giving you special advice, so write a lot of traffic tickets. They must have had a message like that, they're getting a direct order from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Because you're going, you're going, you're going, sir, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, you're going, You're being punished. Two quadrillion fines last year. Therefore, there is a method that seems to be punishable by instruction. You've become almost overwhelming. The man loaded his oranges from his garden, loaded his vegetables, and went to hell, sir, the SRC document... Where would he find them? So amateurically, he's loaded his own vegetable out of his own garden, and he's going to take it to the ground; he's going to be fined. All of this needs to be fixed. It's not the right thing to do, it's not the conscience. On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0122par0236	Thank you, Mr Varli. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 61 of the current bill of law. We demand that the statement of the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges be removed from the text. Süleyman Çelebi (Istanbul) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0123par0243	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0122par0244	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0124par0245	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0122par0246	Mr. Çelebi, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0125par0248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear friends, I salute you with love. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group over Article 61 of the current bill. I salute our coven once more. Dear friends, this is an important matter, and once again, I speak to your conscience. I mean, when we call it a chauffeur's shop, it's not a tradesman, it's a chauffeur, it's a chauffeur. It's about a vehicle that's been taken and bought, and the friends have just explained it here, which is described on this bench, Mr. Secretary says no with both hands. We're trying to make a point here, so protect these merchants. We say, "You resist not to protect them." You're ignoring previous commitments to a K document, all the wills laid out here. Now, when they honk, the driver's shop, why are they making noise? You rebel here, and they'll honk a lot from now on. And I want to tell you from this podium that there's gonna be a lot of honking to make this power go away, because the driver's shop is in agony. My dear friends, we're here to address the problems of the workers, we're talking about the problems of the workers, and you're trying to solve the problems of the capital you're feeding here, and you're sticking to it, and then you're complaining about them. The subcontractors came here today. They've prepared a beautiful document, and it's very good, and I like it, and to whom is this document? To the Ministry of Labor of the Republic of Turkey. I'm reading the same document: The AKP government's Labour and Finance Ministers were entitled to this certificate of appreciation from 2002-2014 to 134 months of starving subcontractors, actions that would set a bad example for other ministers and their efforts to deceive employees with the promise of a staff. Who's giving you this document? The subcontractors are giving it to him. Now, here, the subcontractors have given me a very good prescription again today. The prescription says: Our name is Tayeron, and our last name is Slave. Of course, they give this prescription to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. They're writing the required reviews and films: ▪-A test for living at $843, - A test of deception with the pledge of tenure, - A slave study test. {\pos (192,220) }The subcontractor, - The smell of hunger. - Don't have consumption because of the pledge. - $843 of rheumatism. The necessary treatments, medicines, prosthetics and healing tools: 1) The rights from the Employment Act must be used. 2) The court and its regular decisions must be carried out. The employee's rights should not be stolen by the bag of laws, they must be made additional compensation. 3) The staff must be employed and the job is guaranteed, and the layoff must be prohibited. 4) Departure of staff/tashion workers must be removed. Who wants this? The subcontractors wrote you a prescription and gave you a commendation. There, he also gave notes for your homework, other than the unappreciated. He gave notes on what you're doing here, how you're exploiting it. Now, from this platform, we have repeatedly stated that the contractors on the highways are suing, winning from the local court, the Supreme Court approves, you don't give your staff, you violate the judicial decisions, you don't obey the judicial decisions, then you come out, you're going out, you're yelling, "Law, law..." What law! You have no law, no justice, no conscience. Isn't it your job to solve this? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's the same thing in other hospitals, like this in cases brought by DEV-BURG, like that in other hospitals. I say it's impossible for Turkey to breathe without first solving these problems, and I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0126par0276	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 62, which I read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 62nd Amendment. We ask that all measures to prevent obstruction be changed by ▪ taking measures to prevent obstruction. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Musa Pine Gürkut Acar To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose to replace the declaration of the law on 524 rows with the statement of the non-restricted citizens. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Altan Tan I'm going to read and process the current motion: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 62 of the current law bill 524 be changed in the following way. Article 1 of the Law on disabled persons, dated 62 - 1/7/2005, has been changed as follows. The purpose of this Law is to encourage and ensure the benefit of basic rights and freedoms for the disabled and to strengthen the honor they were born with and to ensure full and active participation in social life under equal conditions for the disabled, health, education, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, employment, accessibility, discrimination, care and social security. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Muharrem Varlı Mehmet Günal Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0127par0304	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0126par0305	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0128par0306	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0126par0307	Mr. Oz, here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0129par0309	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion of the National Party of Movement on Article 62 of Law Bill 524. I hereby salute your high council. It's February 4th, and it's World Cancer Day. I'd like to express that in a few words. Of course, cancer is a disease that is increasingly frequent in our country, which can be prevented when it's actually treated or diagnosed early, but, of course, in our country, it's one of our important problems that the problem of not finding medications in the periodic period of cancer diseases that have been diagnosed in relation to the recent insensitivity and in need of treatment is still unresolved. In the meantime, according to a press report today, I would like to present to you all that the Marmaray Project, particularly in connection with the damage done to some units at the Faculty of Medicine in Surgery, has been left in the necessity of our citizens, who have been treated specifically for cancer disease, to be treated in environments that are not traditional, unhygienic, or unapproprinable to them at all. We're trying to make a lot of arrangements for the disabled, of course. However, ensuring the participation of disabled citizens in social life and raising their living standards is part of the modern sense of society. With that consciousness, there are serious problems from education to health, vocational rehabilitation, culture and art, improving sports and urban standards, as serious as transportation to psychological and social support and waiting for solutions. These problems are common to not only our disabled citizens, but the families, the environment, the community, the local governments, all human beings. To solve these problems, every level of society has to work together. It is not right to claim that we have done so much to improve the lives of disabled citizens, even though we try to make some adjustments in the laws related to our disabled citizens. I'd just like to say that remembering at certain times is not the real approach that our disabled citizens expect to solve their problems, by showing off and providing some economic improvements based solely on their disability. The fact that our disabled citizens, who view our disabled citizens as people in need, have to see the fact that our disabled citizens are powerful members of the society, demanding the removal of social, legal, and physical barriers to live as human beings, to work as human beings. When we look at the world population, it's one of the main problems of all of us, especially in developing countries, where we consider that there are around 12 per cent disabled people in our country, in 2005, and the measures that need to be taken in terms of fixing the physical environments of the disabled are still under operation -- over the years. Outside developing countries, especially in European countries and especially in some countries, such as Japan, laws have been passed on how physical environments are for disabled people. In fact, what this Parliament must do is to ensure that only a few articles of the disabled can be corrected, that some of their problems may be addressed, that there are some solutions to them -- as I have already expressed in my previous speech -- a very comprehensive law bill that will be a solution to all of them is within the real expectations of our disabled citizens. In Western countries, about the physical environments of the disabled, the width of their entrance and mass use areas, and the lack of polishing, slippery materials of the surfaces, the height of ramps and elevators, the required sensory doors in certain levels of ladders and wheelchair users coming out, and I salute your high delegation with my regards to the greater number of measures we can consider, such as taking measures to prevent them from being injured by an unwanted contact with the wheelchair.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0130par0319	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose to replace the declaration of the law on 524 rows with the statement of the non-restricted citizens. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0131par0326	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0130par0327	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0132par0328	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0130par0329	Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0133par0331	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party on the 62nd Amendment to some Laws No. 524. I salute the General Assembly. In addition to being excluded from education to health, social and economic areas, democratic rights to participate in the social process and disabled persons who have been deprived of the most basic human rights have been the subject of philanthropic activities, which are focused only on conscientious feelings because the issue is not perceived as a social phenomenon. Dear lawmakers, according to official statistics, about 12 per cent of our country's population is created by disabled citizens. Given their disabled families, we can say that about 50 per cent of our country's population face direct disadvantages stemming from the disability situation. Thus, any reform and improvement in this area can actually affect about 50 per cent of society directly. However, when reviewing this bag of legislation brought to parliament, there are talks about superficial, definition-level improvements to disabled individuals and non-infrastructure vocational education and employment reforms, but the level of technical infrastructure such as the institution, staff, hardware is ignored. Mr. President, the diagnostic process of disabled persons begins with medical board reports taken from hospitals. Many of the hospitals are at a very low level of hardware, health care personnel, service quality and service accessibility, and are having serious difficulties with access to this service, especially given the disabled individuals, especially those living in the rural area. The diagnostic process does not end in receiving a medical board report from hospitals. The disabled individuals who need to use private education services also have to apply for guidance and research centres. These institutions are severely lacking in technical and expert personnel that are needed at the point where they can make a healthy right decision in diagnostics and later yearly checks conducted during the training process. A simple example is that guidance and research centres do not have a single expert staff or physical therapist who can monitor the special education and rehabilitation processes of disabled persons. However, these institutions can decide whether to interrupt or continue this service in the special education and rehabilitation processes of those who are physically disabled. In order for disabled individuals to benefit from knitting, infrastructure inadequacies continue. Private classrooms for disabled individuals operating in villages in elementary schools are relatively few, and private classrooms opened at county and county centres are far from responding because they are not based on age, and there are not enough and quality training staff assigned to them. Thus, even if the right of an disabled person in any village is found in accordance with legal regulations, there is little chance that they will actually be able to benefit from this right. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of National Education is trying to address the education and rehabilitation service they cannot provide within themselves, through private education and rehabilitation institutions, but the opportunities the state offers to these institutions are very limited. The point is that a disabled individual can receive 12 hours of service per month at a private education and rehabilitation centre because that's the only amount of funding the government has. This is considered to be a very funny level for a disabled individual to benefit from his education and rehabilitation service. Twelve hours a month of private education and rehabilitation are very poor for the individual's development, especially for those with multiple obstacles. Thus, it is clear that problems cannot be solved by superficial approaches that remain at the level of definitions, which do not address the current problems of disabled individuals. With these thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0134par0339	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 62nd Amendment. We ask that all measures to prevent obstruction be changed by ▪ taking measures to prevent obstruction. Gürkut Acar (Antalia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0135par0346	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0134par0347	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0136par0348	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0134par0349	Mr. Acar, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0137par0351	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are ahead of us by the lawless bag bill, which has become an AKP classic. I have made a commitment to our proposal for Article 62 of Bill 524. I salute you all. It is everyone's duty to be human, to be a social state, to ensure that our disabled citizens can live their rights and freedoms like all of our citizens. In recent years, some figures may say that progress has been made, but Turkey has a long way to go when it comes to joining our disabled citizens in economic, social and political life as equal citizens. It is not possible to shorten this path with improvement in the purpose of the law. Writing good intentions isn't enough. Turkey must take radical, results-taking steps. My dear friends, by changing the reporting system, by changing the legislation, you can reduce the number of disabled people to 1,780,000, and you can suddenly stop 5-6 million disabled citizens from being disabled by a change of legislation, but that does not prevent the problems of citizens. According to statistics, 160,000 disabled children in a 5-18-year-old group are far from education. When he's away from education, he'll stay away from everything, he'll settle for his fate. It is our duty to offer our children opportunities to change their fate. Again, according to your statistics, about 35,000 of the disabled staff in the public and private sector are empty. Seven thousand of these are public. He's looking for thousands of disabled jobs, looking for food, but the staff is empty. It's impossible to understand why these staffs aren't assigned. Even at the Ministry of the Family, 30 staffs seem to be free. Look, this is the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, shouldn't this be an example? Why are these openings available? We make laws for the disabled, but the staff stays empty. We're looking at the employment data, there's no consistency. The ministry page is based on İSKUR's data, and it says: "Whoever applied to the disabled in 2013 was hired. " Look, my dear friends, but this is not possible. I mean, I'd love to be right about this, but even this painting itself doesn't give me confidence. There are 35,000 applicants in 2011, 38,000 people who have been put to work. I mean, how can we believe that? There's 3,000 extra people in there. They gave it to the disabled, and they gave it another three grand. But there were 83,955 applicants in 2012, 32,000 people who were put to work, but the staff remained empty. There's a big discrepancy here. Which one of these is true? By playing their numbers, by compiling non-realistic data, by drawing pink paintings, it is not possible to get anywhere. More education for disabled citizens, more work opportunities, more resources being divided. By changing statements in the purpose of the law, we must now understand that the problem will not be solved by making the expression "I'm sorry." So how are more resources going to leave? The way to do that is to correct the tax on citizens, and Turkey is to really expand the tax on citizens. But unfortunately, as the assets of the ruling people grow, so do the problems of the citizens and the problems of the disabled. There are dozens of associations, foundations for disabled persons; they try to bring services to disabled people under difficult circumstances, to live on projects that will bring them to society; many of them can't find money, so they can't do it. When disabled foundations can't find donations, you see, businessmen line up to donate to a foundation, making millions of dollars in donations when it comes to the foundation of the Prime Minister's son. Our president asked, but nothing. I'm asking: did 99,999,990 go to the TERGEV Foundation on April 26, 2012? What's with all the money? The prime minister must answer for this, explain why businessmen have queues in TÜRGEV, when the disabled cannot receive donations. Dear friends, I told you from here the other day. The Oymapınar Dam, the property of the state, the property of the citizens, was not handed over by the Ministry of Finance, despite a court order. He's been pouring money into a company for seven or eight years. About a billion dollars went wrongly into the company's vault. Take 1 billion, but write a donation to the foundation -- that's not understanding -- your sins will be forgiven. As for the disabled, there's no funding, but when it comes to allies, the money goes to corporations. My dear friends, these corruptions will not be a source for the very disabled. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0138par0365	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three proposals in Article 63. I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Sixty-three of the current bill of law. We would like to change the term "property buildings like this" in the article to "buildings and attachments that are similar to this." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Suleiman Çelebi Musa Pine Bulent Tezcan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We also propose and propose that the declaration of "interrupting, restricting, or making it difficult" be added in Article 63 of the current law bill 524. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Altan Tan I read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 63 (f) and (i) be changed in the following way in the current law bill 524 rows. Seyfettin Yilmaz Ali Öz Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Günal Özcan Yeniçeri Accessibility: Safe and independent access and use of information and communication technology through the United Nations General Assembly Declaration of Rights, the ILO Convention and the Standard Rules for the disabled, through open spaces, transport and information services and the disabled, i) Protected workplace: the workplace where disabled workers are employed, not less than 75% of their business managers, educational staff and employees, who are provided with technical and financial support by the State in order to provide vocational rehabilitation and employment for mentally or mentally disabled people who are difficult to get into the labour market," he said. Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0139par0391	Mr. President, we disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0138par0392	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0140par0393	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0138par0394	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0141par0395	Mr. Secretary was sitting there, we were going to talk about it, but whatever.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0142par0396	He'll come when you're out.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0138par0397	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0141par0398	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Court of Justice of Family and Social Policy 524, and to the motion we have made on Article 63 of the Court of Law to change the provisions of some Law and Law. I salute you all. In our country, discrimination and practices for disabled persons also show themselves in various ways in the field of employment. Despite all anti-discrimination regulations, discrimination is still ongoing in our country, so regulations are positive efforts to prevent discrimination. But these studies are not enough; a more comprehensive study must be done to prevent discrimination against the disabled. We may have a lot to say about the motion, but unfortunately there's no Minister involved here, the Minister of Energy and Resources is sitting. The Minister of the Forest is here. I'd like to address corruption on the subject of the two ministers. Now, you know, the corruption of the century on December 17th and corruption operations on December 25th cover about $100 billion, 200 billion in old money, 200 quadrillion. Now, it's not possible to pass up the allegations here by admitting it. Dear friends, we must pursue and investigate these allegations. If the servant is winning the right, if the people are getting the right, if the poor are getting the wrong, and the strange guru is getting the right, we're going to go after him, and if we don't, we're going to get the answer, and if we don't, God will ask us tomorrow. Now, about that, I said to the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Minister of Energy, that the Pashaköy minefield is a $10 billion field. Did you call the Chief of Staff of the Prime Minister and Prime Minister when you refused to allow it? I asked him a question, and he was sitting here. That's exactly what the Minister said -- right there -- he said: I've got a bad reputation. He didn't call me... he said. He said, "We have no account that can't be given." He said, "It's great," but God said, "God is great, three days later." Mr. Secretary, don't laugh. Answer this. Look, dear friends, how about you? In 2009, this is about the Paşaköy minefield in Sultanbeyli, the relevant company is applying, and the Ministry of Forestry, Veysel Eroglu, does not allow it. Why won't he let me? It says: "This is a place that has not been seen fit to ask opinion from the DSI, according to the SKI Basin Rule." He insists, renegotiating in 2010. Look, look at the reason, dear friends, in 2010, it says: "This is a forest of conservation, it is only in the field and it is not appropriate to be allowed here because of the spread of endemic plant species. Twice in 2010. But, what happens is that in 2011, Mr. Minister, Minister of Energy- the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff are looking for the Minister of Chief of Staff on the list -- the MPs thank you, thank you, Mr. Secretary, for speeding this up, for making it easy for him to do it. The Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs says, what does he say? And the interesting thing is, the valuable MPs, they're not in 2009, they're not in 2010, they're in 2011, and then they're transferred to Bosphorus 360, a month later. Now, what's the charge of corruption of this century? There are allegations that Bilal Erdogan, the son of the Prime Minister, and Muaz Al Qadi, the son of Yasin Al Qadi. And what happens when six months pass through this place that was transferred here a month later? Stock cycles are being made. Now I'm asking you from here. What does that mean if there's any realism involved when you're investigating all the allegations that have been made? It's about taking the poor bastard's credit for the weird guru. That means that billions of dollars goes to the citizens, to the people, to whom? It means going to the ministers, to their children, to their followers. We're arguing that you've come to defend it, and you've come to rule by arguing that you don't make a single penny of it, that you don't do what people deserve, that you don't do what's right for the people. Now, with these 200 quadrillions mentioned in partnership, all the problems of the disabled will be solved, and all the problems of our workers, of our officers, of our tradesmen, of society will be solved. But let Turkey grow. By means of Turkey, Turkey doesn't grow, it doesn't maintain stability, only allies grow. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0143par0409	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0141par0411	He'll answer, he'll answer...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0143par0412	Wait a minute... Why are you talking to each other? Unacceptable. Yes, Mr. Secretary, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You have two minutes.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0144par0420	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, this is our friend, our former director of the forest district, who seems to have a problem, brought the same thing here ten times, like rice. He's saying the same thing. I answered in particular. For one thing, look, let me put it this way: This place is specially licensed according to the Mining Law. If I were to give it to you, I'd have given it to you sooner, but we've done a very serious examination, and we've said it over and over again. For one thing, is there an endemic problem here or not? A committee examined it. Number two: I've had him surveyed the settlements. Three: We allowed all of these to be examined after we had them examined to see if there were any problems inside the basin, any absolute or short-range containment areas in the drinking water basin.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0145par0422	Why didn't you give it to me before?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0144par0423	The reason we haven't given it to you before is because there's been a delicate examination.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0145par0424	Why didn't you give it to me before?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0144par0425	I've listened to you, please listen to me.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0145par0426	I'm listening, answer me!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0144par0427	As a result, everything was given in accordance with the law, the law.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0146par0428	Consistent with conscience, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0144par0429	It provided all the conditions, and in the end, we gave it according to the Mining Law, according to the relevant clause of the Forest Law. Not only that, I just signed 300 mining permits yesterday. And that's nothing more than a normal, reasonable process. There's nothing about it, it's perfectly legal, but, friend, every time I'm here, it brings it up. I really think it's a great disrespect to the House, and I offer it to the High Council's compliments.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0147par0432	Mr. President has accused me of disrespect and accused me of being troubled, and I will answer.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0148par0433	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0147par0435	Look, dear friends, I have no problem with the Minister of the Forest, thank God he sent me an inspector. The last time he said: "I have pressed his tail." But he sent... no minister, look, it's not like a minister, it's in the Parliamentary minutes, it's in a Parliamentary report. Thank God my forehead's up and 46 people... will get the outcome of that court himself. What I'm saying is, now, there's no need to make a fuss here. In 2009, in 2011, where you didn't give it to me in 2010... what are those phones, Mr. Secretary? The Prime Minister calls, he says: "Give this place to this firm." I'm asking you about it, or it's already the law of the Ministry of Forestry. Where you didn't give it to me in 2009 and 2010.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0149par0437	It's indexed, indexed. That's the problem, yes.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0147par0438	Look, the high-value lawmakers say in 2009 and 2010: there are endemic plants here, there are forest. They don't allow it, but in 2011, the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff, Hasan Doğan and the Prime Minister, when he calls, he lets us come here, forgetting all these reasons. I'm asking you to answer that question, Mr. Secretary. And friends, don't you notice anything? A month after signing and giving this place, Mr. Secretary, this place is transferred to Bosphorus 360. I mean, you're gonna have to answer for all of this. Or 300 minefields...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0149par0439	Mr. Secretary, you will be tried in this case, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0147par0440	That's your job, it's your job to let me in the field.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0149par0441	You answer by instruction, not by law.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0147par0442	The Mining Law and the 16th and 17th Articles of the Forest Law bring this to us, and we do not question it. I'm asking this question very clearly: where you didn't give it twice in 2009-2010.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0149par0443	He's answering on the phone.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0147par0444	Did the Prime Minister call you in 2011 or not? Has Hasan Doğan called or not? Shall I read these telephone pages from here? Is it ethical to read these phone numbers? They called, they got a number here, 532 something. What's this? It's a police record. What's this? It's in the prosecution's indictment. That's what I'm asking, these MPs. I mean, what does that have to do with the problem, what do we ask? Write this money down so we can solve the problems of the disabled.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0150par0446	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0149par0447	The intent has been made, recorded, and done. We'll see what the Minister has to say.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0150par0448	By the way, the speaker's gone for two motions. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0151par0451	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, let me make it very clear to you that, categorically, Hassan Doğan did not call me. Our Prime Minister hasn't called me, called me about any of the mines, there's no such thing. We're just...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0152par0452	What are the Tape, the tapes?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0153par0453	Whose is this, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0151par0454	Look, I'm being very clear here, because of the firm's objection by a committee again, not me, the committee did a review. After all, it says this place is given according to the Mining Law.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0154par0455	It doesn't say "give." I mean, if he went to court, he'd get it anyway. It is given according to the Mining Law. There's no problem with endemics here.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0155par0457	Why didn't you give it to me before?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0156par0458	And before that...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0155par0459	Why didn't you give it to me before, in six months?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0157par0460	Objection, objection examined.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0156par0461	It could be, it's been contested, it's been re-examined.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0158par0462	Are you a lawyer, Ramadan?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0156par0463	And I ask you, do you have such a logical approach? If we were gonna give it to you, we'd have given it to you in the beginning. So we've done a very thorough examination, which, according to the legislation and the law that we've actually given, is the relevant law, the Mining Law, and...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0159par0464	Don't give false information about the situation.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0160par0465	Congressmans, I certainly can't hear the minister because of your shouting.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0159par0466	But he's giving false information to the General Assembly. Read the stuff.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0160par0467	Okay, I get it, but I mean, I don't hear it, I don't hear what you're saying.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0161par0468	...in accordance with the 16th and 17th Articles of the Law of the Forest, we have given the same example, the process that we have done here is correct. If he does, let him appeal to the court. Why are you doing such a thing here?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0159par0469	I'll send you to the Supreme Court, Supreme Court!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0161par0470	If you have the files, give them, thank God our foreheads are open. Everything we do is transparent. But I know what you're going through, and because of some trouble...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0159par0471	Tell me, tell me what's wrong! You're the Minister, you have the means! Tell me!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0161par0472	Okay, that explains it. I mean, Mr. High Assembly, I specifically say that the mineral license we give, or rather the permit, is entirely legal, in accordance with the 16th, 17th Articles of the Mining Law, there is no harm done, it is not given by instruction. You know, I'm making it very clear.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0159par0473	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0162par0474	I'm the police commissioner, dear.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0161par0475	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit03spe0162par0477	I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0162par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 56th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 524. [[Continue]] Commission? Here. Government? Here. I'll read and process the second motion on Article 63. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We also propose and propose that the declaration of "interrupting, restricting, or making it difficult" be added in Article 63 of the current law bill 524. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0163par0015	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0162par0016	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0164par0017	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0162par0018	I'm reading the reason: Reason: A change is intended to clarify the text of the substance by providing meaning integrity. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Sixty-three of the current bill of law. We would like to change the term "property buildings like this" in the article to "buildings and attachments that are similar to this." Bulent Tezcan (Adun) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0165par0026	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0162par0027	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0166par0028	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0162par0029	Mr. Tezcan, come in. We just talked about you guys, and now you're dating, and you're out on a limb. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0167par0032	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're discussing the proposed law on the disabled, or rather the amendments to the disabled within the bag of legislation. The disabled, of course, are an important part of us, especially as a society. We have about 6 million disabled citizens in Turkey, and we have to make arrangements to meet the needs of the disabled together by handing out the country's resources fairly. However, unfortunately, we see that we are dealing with a serious organization in Turkey to move the country's resources to another point, rather than to solve the problems of the disabled. Look, dear friends, since December 17th, the investigation has been under way -- search warrants, police officers and police officers, police officers who are conducting the investigation, police officers who are conducting corruption investigations, prosecutors getting their hands on jobs... Look, there's another trial being announced today. That's only one fifth of the subject. Under the December 25th investigation into the police, a broadcast group, including the ATV and Sabah newspapers, is writing with direct instructions on how to get money from whom. What speeches were made, who was released, who was laid down. Dear friends, there used to be an app in the Mafia. Where the mob ruled, where the gangs ruled, they went to businessmen, they fell on businessmen. And they would give them certain sums of tribute, and they would fall on them, and they would say: If you don't give them this tribute, we will do it. Now, unfortunately, we see that the government has cut its tribute directly, and the ministers of the government have done it in the same manner, according to the Prime Minister's orders. Look, it's a police trial, and their audio recordings are being published on the street, and they're devastated. He says: "What if he asked me for 100 million, how can I give it to him?" He asked me for 100 million. How am I supposed to show it? He asked me for 20 million... Look, we didn't make this up one by one.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0168par0038	It's 100 million!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0167par0039	Dear friends, if a government falls to a businessman in a country, the government is ganged up in that country. This document is evidence that the government is ganging up.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0169par0040	How did that information get to you, how did that file get to you?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0168par0041	He'll come, he'll come.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0170par0042	The parallel government sent it.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0171par0043	Now, you're going to collapse on the corners using government authority, as gang members have fallen into business.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0172par0044	I mean, you know, before the defendants know it.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0171par0045	See, now, we all know the Imam Azam Abu Hanife.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0172par0046	Wow, what's going on with the CHP... big improvement!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0171par0047	We know the Imam Azam Abu Hanife, only you don't. His Holiness Abu Hanife, the Caliph of Abbasi Mansur, says: "Come, I will make you the ruler of the caliphic center. He says: "I am not qualified to be a woman, for the one who will be a woman must have the courage to judge against your son, your commanders. A woman should have the courage to judge against you, against her son, against her commanders; and I have the heart, and do not have the courage, says Yahweh. What a great knowledge, what an important sign that marked this day a thousand and three hundred years ago. Now, in Turkey, there is a government that terrorises the Prime Minister, the minister, his children, and those around him as described by Imam Azam Abu Hanife, but there are decent lawyers in this country who will stand against it. Do whatever you can to cover up corruption. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0173par0050	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three proposals in Article 64; I will have them read and processed in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 64 of the current bill of law. We would like to request the addition of the term "property of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy" to the end of the statement. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Suleiman Çelebi Musa Pine Bulent Tezcan To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the declaration of protection of the family's integrity in Article 64 of the current law bill 524 shall be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Altan Tan I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added after the joke "a" of the 524 rows of the proposed bill, and that other jokes be identified accordingly. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Günal Özcan Yeniçeri Seyfettin Yılmaz "b) The diagnostic and treatment stages of the disease causing disability are fully covered by protective health care. ▪ Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0174par0075	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0173par0076	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0175par0077	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0173par0078	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0176par0080	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 64th amendment of the bill we discussed. I salute you all. Article 64 of this bill is replaced by Article 4 of the Law for the disabled, 5378, and the basis for the implementation of services under the law is determined, and our overall view of this clause is positive, and we see it as a positive arrangement. However, the Law of the disabled has a very important lack. One of these significant shortcomings is the lack of early diagnosis and protective services for preventing disability. Article 11 of the Law on the disabled is stated that every period of newborn, early childhood and childhood will be planned by the Ministry of Health to monitor the physical, auditory, sensory, social, spiritual and mental development, to provide early detection of diseases that may lead to genetic transitions and disability, to prevent disability, to the lowest level of disability and to halt progress. Dear lawmakers, however, the 11th article of the law states that the diagnosis and treatment of diseases that lead to disability is not considered as part of health care. Hence, families whose financial condition is weak are unable to diagnose and treat epidemiological diseases that lead to disability. The average number of disability rates in the world is 7.5 per cent, while the percentage in our country is 12.29 per cent. So the rate of disability in Turkey is far above the world average. For the disabled rate to be reduced to the world average in our country, it is primarily necessary to fight epidemiological diseases that cause disability. In our motion, we aim to ensure that the diagnosis and treatment of the disease that causes disability is free of charge as part of protective health care. This is extremely important, and I repeat, with our motion, we aim to give away the diagnostics and treatments that lead to disability as part of protective health care. The duty of the modern state is not only to improve and oversee the rights of disabled individuals. At the same time, the state has to ensure that the disabled develop in line with their abilities and potential, that they have equal opportunities, that they have economic and social well-being. In our country, however, millions of disabled education, health, employment, and accessibility have dealt with many problems. Our country needs a comprehensive data collection system for disabled populations. The current data on the disabled population is very inadequate. The data that the government and all of us use today is based on research conducted during the 57th Government, where the National Movement Party was a partner in 2002. The disability is primarily a health issue. According to the 2002 Turkish Investigative Research, about half of the disabled have been declared untreated in any way due to the disability barrier -- 47 percent. This may be the beginning of making many disabled people who can continue their lives independently and productively after treatment. In order for disabled people to be integrated with society, to live without the help of others, and to move on normally in social life, physics and social environments need to be created in a way that makes their lives easier. True, reliable and objective data must be collected according to gender, age and income groups. With these thoughts, I ask for the acceptance of our motion, with all due respect.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0177par0089	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the declaration of protection of the family's integrity in Article 64 of the current law bill 524 shall be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0178par0096	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0177par0097	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0179par0098	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0177par0099	Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0180par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 64, and I salute your delegation. Today is February 4th World Cancer Day. I'd like to draw the attention of all lawmakers in particular. Cancer is the most important disease of our age, and it's actually a highly preventable or early diagnosis. But unfortunately, we can't talk about an effective cancer war plan and adequate measures against cancer. By 2030, there are expectations that 22 million new cases of cancer will be detected in the world. This is a huge 75 per cent increase in cancer cases based on 2008. Again, an average of 8 million people die of cancer every year, and about twice as many people are diagnosed with new cancers. We have a sad picture in both Turkey and our country, where there are around 162,000 new diagnostic cases each year, and about half of which are lost, almost 80 thousand. So instead of spending time here with such a bag of laws, I'd like to say that serious work on permanent problems should be done instead of palliative, dressing measures that will help solve problems. Of course, I especially want to express here the sense of our era of cancer disease, the maximum human health and environmental health of the age of capitalist order. I'd like to point out that many dangers must be seen by this Parliament as a combatable area until we have the GMO products that are polluting the air, disrupting the ecological balance. Of course, in this bag bill, there are some things about almost everything, as we say, palliative, dressing measures. It's an arrangement that doesn't touch life. Look, I'll give you a few examples of practical, real life: for example, a few articles about the Ministry of Transport have been discussed here concerning territorial policy. I just got back from my constituency, Bingol. The driver's shop there has told us the problem: The Chamber of Traders and Artists has been transmitting it for a long time. Since there is no unit or branch of the transport district in Bingol, all of the Bingöl drivers have to go to Erzurum to receive a document. Look, these drivers are given 37 kinds of documents to the driver's shop, and all these documents are paid for by the world, and these people are taxed by the world. These people have repeatedly reported their problems to the government within the Chamber of Traders and Artists, presenting files to the Minister of Bingol. All they want is to open up a unit, open up a unit at the Erzurum Regional Directorate. We're ready to allocate the place, we're ready to allocate the rent, as long as there's a warrant and a staff employment. There's a situation that can solve the problems of thousands of drivers with one staff job. Mr. Secretary, especially if he takes note of this, because this Bingol-Erzurum road is a very demanding road, especially the way that accidents happen in winter, where there are too many accidents. Most of the time, when the driver's shop leaves, he pays $4,5,000 in paperwork. And when they couldn't go, some drivers told us that they have a chauffeur's shop that pays 60-70,000 in bills, along with the fines that they couldn't go. So while the legal arrangements are being made in this way, here are some arrangements that need to be delivered to your Minister, delivered to your group, to solve the problems of the locals in real life. On the other hand, there are some other substances related to the disabled. Another example is that because a disabled brother named Serdar Tuncel shares Kurdish songs from the Internet in Bingol, several rallies are called to testify on December 3rd on the Day of the disabled because he shares the image of the Kurdish leader. It's a shameful painting. We're doing some things about the Internet, about the rights of the disabled here, but whatever you call it in real life, here's a government understanding that unfortunately values disabled people as much as the disabled practice called for to testify on December 3rd. I say we need legal arrangements to solve all of this permanently, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0181par0109	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0182par0112	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit04spe0181par0113	Okay. Mr. Altay, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Özüssel, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Gulkan, Mr. Serker, Mr. Onur, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Demir, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Ediboğlu. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0181par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 56th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call held before the vote of Mr. Idris Bauken and his friends' motion was not enough. Now we're going to recheck with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. We will now resume negotiations with Bill 524. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 64 of the current bill of law. We would like to request the addition of the term "property of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy" to the end of the statement. Bulent Tezcan (Adun) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0183par0023	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0181par0024	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0184par0025	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0181par0026	Mr. Tezcan, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0185par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we've just spoken, and we've just told you how $630 million has been collected by businessmen to be turned into a subsidiary of a publishing group -- ATV and Sabah -- and how their complaints about this have been reflected in the debate. Look, there was a TMSF method before, you know the Savings Exchange Insurance Fund. It developed a TMSF method: the TMSF was taking over broadcasters, and the broadcasters it seized turned out to be subsidiaries of power, and newspapers, televisions changed hands in this way. Now, we called this TMSF method a fund to provide deposits for Erdogan. Now, it seems you've started adding a new method to this. The power has started to add a new method to it, which, as I mentioned earlier, is the way it collapses. The mob, the gangs, the businessmen, and the money they're taking, a new media-supply method has come into our history, and you're going down to the businessmen, and you're going to collect $630 million, and then you're going to take the broadcasters with you, and you're going to move them to power. Now, Mr. Prime Minister, we know that there was something he kept saying, and I went into politics with a torn shoe, and today it's among the richest prime ministers in the world. When you enter the prime minister's website, there's talk of cash and shares of nearly $3.5 million. When you enter WikiLeaks documents, there are eight separate accounts in Swiss banks. That's right, that's wrong, I don't know about that, but there's one thing that's known, the things on the record don't go away. Look, in 1994, October 1994, Mr. Prime Minister had six other villas in Istanbul at the time. In his statement, where were the six villas? I have one apartment in Kasympaşa, one cooperative apartment I'm about to take over in Maltepe, one plot of land 346 square meters in Bolluca, and no other property except the company I'm a partner in, he says, in 1994. Today, the millions of dollars in wealth, the Prime Minister, has done nothing but run for mayor and parliament since 1994, but with his known wealth among the richest prime ministers in the world, I call his wealth. Now, after these corruption investigations have surfaced...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0186par0033	How do you know?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0187par0034	You have a document?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0185par0035	I know it from the records.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0186par0036	What records?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0185par0037	And after this comes out, we see one more thing: the Prime Minister has parallel wealth. The Prime Minister also has a parallel fortune, as you call it. He had a parallel fortune that he had indirectly controlled media groups such as the ATV, the Sabah group, who were not registered to him, who fell down on the government's power and collected extortion auctions. After December 17th, they began to prove and prove one by one. Now, valued lawmakers, look, 130 hectares of land belonging to the Ministry of National Defence, which is a military area, are given to the Turkish Youth Foundation, TORGEV. In fact, the preparations for giving are complete and complete. Until when? Until Operation 17th December. If it had not been for the December 17th operation, these 130 hectares would have been given to TÜRGEV. Now, in 1994, when Mr. Prime Minister was mayor again, he said to the generals, "Let us give you all the forest land because yours remained green and yours remained green." The Prime Minister who said that on that day, he is now trying to take the land and transfer it to the foundation of his children and his followers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Beytülmal is not your property, he is not your personal property. This will all come out one by one. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0188par0044	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0189par0045	You're still not smart!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0185par0046	I won't get smart, I won't get smart!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0190par0047	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0191par0048	Mr. Ünal, let me vote and I'll give you my word. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0192par0050	Don't get smart, don't get smart!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0191par0051	Guys... I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0193par0053	What are you gonna do, kill him?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0194par0054	There's no use, there's no bandits, leave it alone!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0195par0055	Don't get smart, okay!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0196par0056	Smarten it up, come on, smart it up, smart it up, come on!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0197par0057	Mr. Ünal, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0198par0061	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are here, Mr. Speaker, with no legal qualifications, published on a website whose name is published on the website and has no legal documentation to be used to create a script through this text...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0199par0062	What script?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0198par0063	...in this scenario, he's using a pattern that puts people under suspicion. Now, look, we've been saying this for years, and Mr. Prime Minister's assets are regularly updated and published on his website. Now, when you go online, you can clearly see the changes in the Prime Minister's assets there. If you're going to talk about the land dedicated to the TERGEV Foundation, then let's talk about all the land assigned to all universities and foundations from ICEK Foundation to Metropolitan University in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0200par0065	Let's talk, let's talk, let's talk! Let's talk Lighthouse!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0198par0066	But here the purpose is to distort the truth, and here the purpose is to distort the reality...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0200par0067	The same way you covered up the Lighthouse.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0198par0068	Mr. Haberal, it's not something I said to tease you, it's something I said about colleges.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0201par0069	That's what happened. That's what happened.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0202par0070	He even set up a TV, TV!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0198par0071	In the end, look, when you're talking here... okay, you've found some political material, so enjoy it, talk about it.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0203par0072	You can't turn this off, don't bother!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0198par0073	Acquittalism is fundamental, forget it, forget the purity of innocence, forget human dignity, forget honor!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0204par0074	Yeah, let's get the debates in here! Let the fezlekes come, the poltergeists!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0198par0075	Forget everything you've been defending until yesterday, and we're taking a primitive stance on how not to do it until yesterday, and use it as politics.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0204par0077	Let the fezlekes come, the poltergeists!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0198par0078	But it won't and won't respond to the people's conscience and conscience.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0205par0080	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0206par0084	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0207par0085	Tell me about how you set up D.C. TV!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0206par0086	Here, I think, there are many different issues that are being brought up, but there are always allegations that they're being spoken without knowing, Mr. Speaker...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0208par0087	I didn't say it because I said it was wrong, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0206par0088	Mr. Speaker, first of all, the University of D.C.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0208par0089	It's wrong. I didn't say it was wrong, it's true.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0206par0090	The speaker must first know what the University of D.C. is.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0209par0091	D.C. TV, tell me about it!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0206par0092	If you go online, you'll find out what D.C. University is; it's one. Two...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0210par0094	I didn't say it was wrong, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0206par0095	No, no... wait a minute... please, I beg you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0210par0096	I said it's normal and it's done.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0211par0097	Tell me about D.C. TV, tell me about your TV!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0206par0098	I listened to you, you listen to me! Since you brought up the University of D.C., I'll tell you. The land of the University of D.C. is leased. The University of D.C. has already paid 12 trillion dollars for the government's treasury, and it's a rental.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0211par0099	Tell me about the Patalya hotel, Patalya!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0212par0100	How much are you paying?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0206par0101	Two... Two...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0212par0102	Did you pay for the track?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0206par0103	I don't understand.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0212par0104	You paid for the rail?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0206par0105	Yeah, I pay rent, rent! I pay rent, rent! Okay? Oh, you should know that! Know that!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0212par0107	What rent?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0213par0108	Tell me about the Patalya hotel, Patalya!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0214par0109	Congressmans, I don't hear the preacher.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0215par0110	Two: Look, know this, and then bring up the University of D.C. Okay?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0216par0111	Same M.O., same system. That's what we're talking about.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0215par0112	Okay, and...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0216par0113	That's what I'm talking about.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0215par0114	Okay, it's okay, that's what I'm saying. I'm explaining it to you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0217par0115	Explain what?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0215par0116	The land of the University of D.C....
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0217par0117	You have nothing to explain!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0215par0118	Dear friends...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0218par0119	Tell me about D.C. TV!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0215par0120	I don't understand. Dear friends, look, look, I...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0219par0121	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0220par0122	How much do you pay rent, how much?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0215par0123	Wait a minute, listen to me. If you have an answer, you can talk after me. The land of the University of D.C....
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0221par0124	Friends, do not interfere, there is a risk of death!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0215par0125	I rented the mountainside, tied the mountain, and paid rent.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0222par0126	Tell me how much rent you're paying!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0215par0127	Let's know that. I pay rent. Oh, let's not confuse that with the other foundations. Okay?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0222par0128	I'm paying rent!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0215par0129	Okay.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0222par0131	How much do you pay, how much?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0215par0132	Look, what you know, you come out and you tell it like I do.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0223par0133	Thank you, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0224par0134	Mr. President, Mr. Haberal couldn't use half a minute of two minutes, so we're all witnesses to that, so he hasn't been talked to. You're supposed to interfere with those who interrupt him, you don't. Please, just give him time, so he can explain himself, and he really can't talk.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0225par0136	Ten minutes and you've got nothing to say.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0223par0137	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0226par0138	There's more. We'll talk about this later. Thank you, Mr. President. He was subjected to a systematic attack.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0227par0141	Mr. Haberal, I'll give you a minute. Now, if you'll excuse me, I've interfered with friends once, I've warned them, but everyone's a minor, but it can only be said, so there's nothing I can do about it. Secondly, Mr. Haberal tried to watch his speech without taunting me, as far as I could hear from the noise, just trying to explain his foundation. If you don't intervene, let him finish his words. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0228par0145	Dear friends, again, I don't stress that the Connected Campus of D.C. University was a mountain, it was a mountain, it was a moor, we planted it, and on that day, in 1995, there was only one short tree, there were 4 million trees today, and I bought those trees.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0229par0146	Why don't we get a steppe?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0228par0147	Two, I pay rent there. The University of D.C. pays rent there, and so far...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0230par0148	How much rent?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0231par0149	How much do you pay rent?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0228par0150	Look, until today...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0232par0152	Why are you shouting, dear?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0233par0153	Don't be rude! Shut up!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0232par0154	But that's not how it works!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0234par0155	None of your business!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0235par0156	Now, look, dear friends...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit05spe0232par0157	My friend, who says to me, "What's wrong with you?" I'm going to take a break now. Come in, say it to my face. Let's go! [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0232par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 56th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 524. [[Continue]] Commission? Here. Government? Here. I submit the 64th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions in Article 65, which I make to read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Sixty-five of the current bill of law. Instead of the phrase "special" at the end of the article, we would like to add the phrase "all." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Ramazan Kerim Özkan Hasan Ören Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Kamer Young Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 65 of the current bill 524 rows to the following. Ali Öz Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri Seyfetttin Yılmaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu D. Ali Torlak Mehmet Günal Article 4/A of the following article has been added to Article 65-5378. ANY discrimination based on disability, including direct and indirect discrimination, is prohibited. To ensure equality and eliminate discrimination, reasonable arrangements for disabled persons are taken. Private measures to benefit the disabled fully and equally from rights and freedoms and to remove economic and social barriers aimed at improving the mental and mental existence of the disabled cannot be considered discrimination." Ali Öz (Mersin) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0236par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0232par0034	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0237par0035	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0232par0036	Mr. Torlak, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0238par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding Article 65 of the current bill. I hereby salute your high council with respect and love. Dear MPs, as it is known, were established in 1997 as the President of the Prime Ministerial Responsibility Administration. The law, which was adopted in 2005 as the Law of the disabled, is called the Law of 5378, and the structure of the institution has been strengthened, and new units have been formed. Two years ago, the Prime Minister's Office of the Responsibility Board was suspended by the Court of Law No. 633. The agency's duties are confined to a narrow coverage of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy by handing over to the Responsibility and Senior Services General Directorate. This practice demonstrates the contradictions of the AKP government in all areas, as well as in the disabled. Law number 5378 and many rights for disabled citizens have been rescinded or narrowed down by regulations and regulations. Many issues in the law have failed to apply. New problems have arisen since the law has been adopted and has not been carried out in accordance with the legislation. For example, two years after the adoption of Law 5378, many of our disabled citizens have been unable to access the subway route in İstanbul, since the necessary arrangements were not made. Again, the process was extended for three more years in 2012, when all living areas and transportation services should be adapted to the access of disabled persons within seven years with the relevant law. During the 57th century, our state ministry, which is also under the direction of our party, has signed a very important study of disabled persons, and Turkey's Statistical Agency has conducted a comprehensive disability study throughout our country. Since no current and comprehensive research has been conducted, the AKP government is often acting on data at that time, and most of the time, our proposals for questions on the subject are answered with data from the disabled research of 2002. Dear MPs, despite the amendment to Article 122 of Law 5378 and Article 122 of Turkish Penal Code, discrimination will continue in all areas, despite the fact that discrimination against the disabled will be punishable by prison sentences. Another matter is the matter of medical board reports. Our disabled citizens are asked for a new health board report for each official procedure, which makes the lives of the disabled even more difficult. The biggest problem is employment. The main issue in this area, however, is the discrepancy of government practices. The work and protection of disabled persons from unemployment have been carried out in international documents and in our national legislation, particularly in the Constitution. The legal arrangement and new studies that will arise in this direction must not be neglected. Therefore, it is important for our disabled to have a job in maintaining productive work, a human and honorable life, harmony and integration with society, and even that is not enough; it is also important for the working environment that arises after employment is done. In this context, it is vital that the environments for the disabled be designed and built to meet their needs. The public and private sector responsibility for the employment of the disabled and the job of the disabled must be reviewed especially in the case of public and social prejudices to the work of the disabled. As the National Movement Party, we, by removing all obstacles to our disabled persons, physically, legal, social, and economics, state president, are continuing our work in the direction of the target of Turkey Without Obstructive, 2023, as stated by State Gardenli. Dear friends, I'd like to share a sentiment with you. Recently, on social media, under the direction of Mr. Prime Minister, we see that a Rizelin, who I was ashamed to speak to a group of contractors of our former Minister, cursed the great Turkish nation. I curse him from here, from this bench, and I condemn him, and in the same way all groups, all my Rizeli friends, want him to do it, and I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0239par0049	Thank you, Mr. Torlak. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Sixty-five of the current bill of law. Instead of the phrase "special" at the end of the article, we would like to add the phrase "all." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0240par0056	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0239par0057	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0241par0058	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0239par0059	Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0242par0061	Mr. President, I've been sworn in on the motion we made regarding Article 65 of Bill 524. My respects to all of you. Dear friends, the title of this clause is fucking discrimination, which means there is no discrimination against the disabled, no discrimination based on disability. Instead of special measures here, we call all measures. Of course, disability is an event that can happen to anyone. For him, the social work of the state requires that all disabled citizens be provided with all the ease that will facilitate their way of life, but nothing is expected of this government. Look, I asked a question here, it's all over. And I said to the minister here, "From whom did you rent that building?," and he didn't answer first. They rented it from Flagstar Holdings. I asked Fatma Şahin. The owner of the building first goes to the Ministry of Health, and he says: I will rent this building to you for $300,000 a month. The Ministry of Health says: "No, I won't accept it." But then Fatma Şahin rents it for $1 trillion,200 billion. Who's behind it? Of course there's Abdullah Gul. In fact, this building is located at the Ataturk Forest Farm. How did Flagtar Holdings do this? We know what you're doing. We already know some of Abdullah Gul's actions. He hasn't lived there for six and a half years when he had to sit ready in the Ataturk Mansion. He's probably afraid of the shadow of Ataturk. He's sitting at the Foreign Mansion, and he's holding a building for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, for perhaps $20,000 a month. Of course, so is this. Now, friends, I mean, there's so much fun going on! Now, this ministry... first, with a decree of law, disbanded the entire ministry, suspended 81 governors. In the investigative staff, they each charge $5,000. But he's retired on full salary and now all that stuff. They suspended over 300 branch managers, each 3,500-4. He gets a salary of £ 000, but they're all out there, wandering around. They suspended their general managers, suspended their vice presidents. What kind of government is that, guys? Now, you know why they do it? They bring in their own followers, they give them the 1st degree staff, then they hire them in those positions with that acquish, the trillions of the state is gone. Now, this ministry has, for example, the House of Growth for the Year of the 50th Year. They shut it down. They're shutting down the 50th Year of Growth, but they go to Antalya hotels... where they send 900 staff a month, give or take. They've got some travel agencies they've agreed to, and we're paying those agents a lot of money. We're telling him here, they're not responding. There was also a large plot of land in Goatören, which Ataturk had given it to him, and they brought it to him. TOKI Saray had built small buildings for them, and they brought in those trillion-year-old plots, and they pursued them. Now, my dear friends, I've never seen a government take government property in this time of power. Now, dear lawmakers, look, now, in the ATV and Sabah newspaper... caught red-handed Mr. Recep, they have audio tapes. Bülli Yıldırım tells Yıldırım: "Go, this one, this one, take this much money from those contractors. Let's go if it's wrong. Let's find out if it's really 630 million dollars, isn't it taken?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0243par0071	It's taken, it's taken, don't worry.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0242par0072	Look, I know how to get this ATV and the Morning paper. In the old days, when Charik was taken, friends, he was given $375 million from the People's Bank, $375 million from the Bank of Trusts, and no guarantee was taken. The $350 million came from Qatar. I was here, on the stand, and I said, "Yeah, this is the government, my friends, the Prime Minister, and then the ministers are going to Qatar all the time." Yahu, what's in this Qatar? Then came $350 million from Qatar, this ATV and it's not the money of 350 million Qatar, it's the money that was carried there by Turkey with luggage. That's what I said, my friends are here. Now, he's been so corrupt... So, guys, what do we do, what laws do we make? Now, the judge isn't doing the trial, the prosecutor can't bring in the criminal, the police aren't bringing him in. There's no government, there's no government, and how do you, I don't know, accept it? Friends, any other time, you wouldn't be able to handle the guilt of this, the plague of it. How is it that there's so much corruption going on and you're still holding it here, defending it? Yeah, at the People's Bank...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0244par0075	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0242par0076	Anyway, the second thing is, I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0244par0078	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three proposals in Article 66. I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 66th Amendment. We propose that the phrase "special living" in the article be changed to "no special life." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Ramazan Kerim Özkan Hasan Ören Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Kamer Young Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 66th article of the proposed law bill, 524 rows, is prevented from being isolated and kept separate from the community at 4/B. "It is prevented by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and its respective units. We propose and propose that it be changed in the form. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Altan Tan I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 66 of the current law bill 524 be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Seyfetttin Yılmaz Mehmet Günal The following Article 4/B is added to Law 66-5378, following Article 4/A. MADDE 4/B- The disabled are prevented from being isolated and kept separate from the community. It is essential for disabled persons to live independently in public under the same conditions as other individuals, and they cannot be forced into a special order of life. Any orthesis/prosthetics and other healing tools and equipment that are mandatory for them are provided by the Social Security Institution, which facilitates the daily life of disabled persons. The disabled have access to the community-based support services they need, including individual support services, so that they can be part of the community and live within the community." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0245par0108	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0244par0109	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0246par0110	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0244par0111	Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0247par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 66 of the Law Bill 524. I salute the High Council. In our proposal, the health board report, facilitating the daily lives of the disabled, intended to provide them with all necessary oresthetics, prosthetics and other healing tools and materials, without any restrictions, by the Social Security Institution; I hope it will be accepted. Honourable MPs have been accepted as Cancer Day in the world on February 4th. The goal of being considered Cancer Day is that the measures that need to be taken against cancer are related to doing studies on cancer. This place is very important, so I think it's important that it was taken on February 4th, because if there are no anti-cancer measures in the next period of time, in 2030, 22 million new people in the world, people who have cancer, people who have cancer. Of course, cancer is the second leading cause of death in the world after heart disease and vascular disease. The fact is that in our country, about 162,000 people get cancer a year. Twenty-eight percent of men suffer from lung cancer, and 24 percent of women also die from breast cancer. What I would like to say from here is that even though the measures that should be taken against cancer have been particularly important to the Ministry of Health, unfortunately, these measures have not been fully taken, and the duties of the Ministry of Agriculture have not been completed. See, especially the fight against cigarettes is admirable, it's not possible to say anything to him, but we see that the rate of use in our country is increasing every day, especially in terms of substance abuse. Moreover, in many of our cities, people still drink water from asbestos pipes and see cyanide water being used and even consumed. Furthermore, the use of artificial sugars, particularly in various foods, is increasing day by day, unfortunately, based on what we call synthesia-based sugars. So the proportion of starch-based sugar reduced to 1% in most countries in the world, to up to 2%, is 15 percent in our country, which shows that the necessary measures taken against cancer have not been taken. In addition, long-lived foods and additive foods are now being used intensively. See, it is imperative that the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture do some very serious work, some untired bread, or a non-old yogurt, reveal what it does in the human body. However, it's interesting that we don't see that there's been some very serious work done about it, but we see that the rate of use has increased every day. In fact, given that our children are using foods that babies use, even biscuits, which are used on starch-based sugar, it means that society can see what a serious risk they're facing. So every day, unfortunately, in our country and in the world, cancers are increasing, but it's probably time to consider the need for protective medicine to be considered, in a very serious sense, at the point of precautions. Honourable lawmakers, of course, we make a very important law on the disabled. The law that needs to be passed to the disabled -- not all of this is supposed to be done as a political material -- we all have to support it, and the problems of the disabled in our country need to be resolved. See, at the moment, 12 percent of the entire population is disabled, so we see that the new disabled are growing by joining this population every day. In particular, traffic accidents are lung diseases that we've just told you about, cancer cases, or other cases, we're also dealing with other disabled people who are not only born but who are left with birth defects. See, in a situation like this, we have to make sure they get all kinds of laws. People can't fully understand if there's no disability in their homes, in their homes, in their environments, but we have to agree with each other about how much support is needed for disabled people or disabled people, and we have to offer them a variety of opportunities. Of course, the laws that have been passed may be very good, but most importantly, it's practice. When the practice is beautiful, that's when the meaning of breaking the law is revealed, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0248par0123	Thank you, Mr. Right. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 66th Amendment. We propose that the phrase "special living" in the article be changed to "no special life." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0249par0130	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0248par0131	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0250par0132	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0248par0133	Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0251par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a promise on a motion we made in Article 66 of Bill 524. My respects to all of you. Here, the disabled who are in the community are prevented from being isolated and kept apart from society, and they cannot be forced into a separate way of life; that is the nature of our proposal. As I've just spoken, of course disability is an event for everyone. The first duty of the state, the first duty of the social government, is first to make sure that people, regardless of their status, live under healthy living conditions. However, as I said, this Ministry, unfortunately Fatma Şahin, holds a building for $900 billion more a month, the state pays $900 billion more rent every month because she hires her sister to please Abdullah Bey. This, of course, is government property. Now, I guess the Gazianteps are gonna have to pay for that, too. I also asked here. Friends, these have beautiful facilities. They shut them down, they have travel agencies, they bring 900,000 people to Antalya every month, they take classes on private tours, but they spend a lot of money. Now, fellas, look, I don't understand. I've been in this Parliament for thirty-three years. This is the first time I've ever been as restless as I am this year. We used to have a friendship with lawmakers who used to live in this ruling party, we had a friendship, but you did something that you didn't quit the state, you didn't quit the state, there was no trial, there was no prosecutor. So, the man you brought to İstanbul Security Directorate today is not listening to the prosecutor, Erdoğan's son is being called to testify as a suspect, Recep Erdogan is taking his son on the day of his summons to the court, leaving, traveling, saying, "Come and get him." That's not gonna happen, guys. Now, there's such a serious claim about all this. You know, this difficult conglomerate has taken a land of the state. There's 86,000 square meters of illegal construction, and it's fallen into the mountains. They say Bilal Erdogan was given 2 large shops, 86,000 square meters of construction by Bey -- I don't know, let's investigate -- was pardoned.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0252par0141	Too bad, too bad! Too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0251par0142	Too bad, look, it's a shame. Yeah, let's check it out.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0252par0143	Too bad, too bad! You're a grown man!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0251par0144	Let's investigate if it's too bad.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0253par0145	Mr. Young, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0251par0146	So, gentlemen, I'm saying, look, a clean forehead of power comes out and testifies in front of a neutral court. Now, you're going to remove the judge, you're going to dismiss the prosecutor, you're going to dismiss the police who are investigating, you're going to depose the criminals, you're going to say: "From now on, friend, you're going to get permission from the governor to do any investigation." Well, Governor... now, the son of Recep Erdoğan is being called to testify. They say: "We haven't received such a summons. There's a subpoena to come to the prosecutor's office on 2/1/2014, my friends. Why hasn't he left yet? Now, you change prosecutors, you eliminate the court, and then you make your own trial. Look, you can fool Turkey, but when you go to Europe, they say: "Who are you kidding, who are you kidding, friend?" You raise the court to cover up your corruption, you raise the judge, you raise the prosecutor, you come to me, you say: "Why is there a conspiracy against me?" You went and took $630 million from the people you hired from the government, so why a conspiracy? Guys, that parallel structure is an excuse. You've been kissing these Fethullahists for years. You were saying, you were going all the way to the ground. Bulent Arinc was going all the way to America, kissing his hand. Now there's a parallel structure. You're using it as an excuse to destroy the judiciary to establish a dictator regime in Turkey under that excuse. Otherwise, there's no parallel-building map, that's an excuse, that's really an excuse. So, look, you're wasting this state, you're giving it to us and you're giving it to you. Come on, let's do these investigations, let's bring in these reviews. And if you're really clean, then I'm sorry, but if you're not clean, don't let the dirty, thieving, corrupt people be in charge of this state, folks, it's too bad for this nation, it's too bad for the butchers of this state. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0254par0149	Mr. Kamer, not here, there's a lot of clean friends here, government lines...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0251par0150	They said there was a thief, but I don't know where the thief went.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0255par0152	I want a word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0256par0153	I promise. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, the person is his own mirror. The relevant friend here, every time it's like they put a mirror in front of him, he just keeps talking through the mirror. Now, my dear friends, please take a look at these House transcripts, and look at the speeches of this concerned friend. All their talk is offensive and the same. Don't you ever get tired of it? Don't you know what sin is? Don't you have a conscience?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0257par0162	Do you know of sin?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0258par0163	Don't you have a problem with telling the truth? I wonder how you could make so many lies, so many insults, so many blasphemies, so many accusations.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0259par0164	We're amazed at how much corruption can happen.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0258par0165	I say God bless you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0259par0166	I mean, we're amazed at how corruption works.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0258par0167	There is no doubt in us or in our devotional obligations.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0259par0168	You're trying to cover it all up. And you blame those who say it.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0258par0169	We know exactly what we're doing. Dear friends, look, I don't know if it's always been about these recent events...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0260par0171	Obviously, brother, there's stashes, money. Shame on you! And you're saying it's not obvious.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0258par0172	...to stand up and accuse an entire group of claims, to condemn an entire group, that is neither moral nor legal.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0261par0173	Did we put the minister's son in his bedroom?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0258par0174	You've ruined the principle of innocence. You didn't leave the secrecy of the investigation. It's a crime for you to bring them here and read them.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0262par0175	Yeah, that's a crime, too! Stealing isn't a crime, it's a crime to read it!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0258par0176	This is a violation of the confidentiality of the investigation.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0263par0177	You covered it up, cover it up.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0258par0178	If a crime is committed, there is blame on the allegations. Would you all admit that you are guilty when some claim is made about you?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0263par0179	You can't cover this up.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0258par0180	There are a lot of claims about Kamer Young, and there are things about this one and that one. It's like I'm the one who gets up here and goes to court...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0263par0181	You have executed the judgment, and covered up the Lighthouse.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0258par0182	If I were to execute without a trial, would it be fair to stand up and accuse you of a certain conviction here?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0263par0183	What about the lighthouse case?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0264par0184	Mr. Acar, please...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0258par0185	Dear friends, the son of our Prime Minister...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0263par0186	You covered up the Lighthouse case.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0264par0187	Mr. Acar, please...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0258par0188	No arrest warrants, no arrest warrants, no arrest warrants. He was invited to testify, and he wasn't served. He explained to us: "My address is clear, and if I am called to testify, I am prepared to testify." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, we have nothing to account for.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0264par0191	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0258par0192	We'll go all the way to the end, no matter who the Prime Minister is." he said.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0264par0194	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0265par0195	Mr. President, he lied. He always looked in the mirror here...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0258par0196	Did you say that right? You've been lying all morning. Prove it! Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0265par0197	There are a lot of allegations about him. He said.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0266par0198	You don't have a correct sentence.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0267par0199	Now, Mr. Young, I promise, but I beg you very much, so this is...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0265par0200	Yes, yes, yes, sir, I respect you...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0267par0201	No, one after the other... it's not cool how this works. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0265par0204	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I wish we could bring in a few people who are so neutral, let's say, for God's sake, what do you have to say about these events? Look, guys, we looked into the Public Bank's accounts the other day as a subcommittee. $575 million, look, a person has been given a $575 million loan, and some of the collateral from that is treasured land. I, in fact, said it there, I said, "Yahu, so it's obvious where the dollars in this box came from." Friends, there's $900 million worth of money at this time given to the general manager, which is not possible to collect over $1 million. One quadrillion and 600 trillion pounds of these have become worthless. Now, all the SME loans to the shop have been collected, there's no down payment. But now, if you give a person $575 million and you screw it up, you get 20 percent, that's pretty much what it's worth.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0268par0208	What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0269par0209	Speak the truth, and sometimes speak the truth.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0265par0210	Now, look, fellas, when I get on this stand, God is a witness upstairs that I'm always telling the truth.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0269par0211	What, do you not know that it is a sin and a loss?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0265par0212	If you're doing anything, let's all act with dignity, honor, let's appoint three experts, my property, Recep Erdogan's and his son's... where did that $100 million come from? Where did that money come from, who put it in? Who, or what, contributed to the foundation of the son of Bu Tayyip?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0269par0213	Your son doesn't have that kind of money.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0265par0214	Why did this Conqueror Mayor build a large house on the land of treasure, which is in the area of the land, and then give it to his son for free, and he gets $14,000,500 a year from a dorm building?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0270par0215	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0265par0216	Well, let's look into it, and if there's nothing, congratulations are in order, and I'll come and apologize. But how do you explain that if corruption is so serious?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0271par0218	Yeah, even a broken clock tells the truth twice a day. You tell the truth once a day, once a day.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0272par0219	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0273par0220	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0272par0221	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0273par0223	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, well, even a broken clock tells the truth twice a day, but you never got it right once in your life.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0274par0225	It takes a lot of courage to defend such corruption.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0273par0226	Alas, woe, woe! I mean, that's all I'm saying. I don't even want to take you in, but you're so insulting... you say: "You've removed the prosecutor, you've removed the judge." You're the one who lifted the prosecutor, you're the one who raised the judge. You don't need the courts, you've condemned everyone here.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0274par0227	What did I say?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0273par0228	You're the one who condemned everyone. I mean, you're the one who put the judge and the judge and the prosecutor out of business. You're both a contender and a judge, you're a judge, you're a judge, you're a judge, you're a judge, you're a judge. Okay, so who's holding the courts here? If you don't prove what you're saying, you're a mufter. You can't prove it, that's all I'm telling you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0275par0229	Yeah, he says there's $100 million in there, bro. He wants to know where the $100 million came from. Answer me.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0273par0230	You have to prove every bet, every case must prove it. Either you don't make a claim or you have to prove it by court order. If you've got it, the information, the document is the same thing that doesn't go to court. Go all the way to the end, follow it, follow it together. If there is, let's go all the way to someone's corruption...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0276par0231	Where should we go? You always say that, you cover it up.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0273par0232	But if you don't, you're gonna have to come and apologize to this whole group, this whole nation, our Prime Minister, our President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0276par0233	That's what you say and cover it up.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0273par0234	Shame on you! Every time you talk, you start with the President, you get out of the MP. It's a shame.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0276par0235	What's a shame? You're covering it up. Shame on you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0273par0236	A president who represents this country is the head of the state, the Prime Minister is the head of the government, these MPs are here at the will of the nation. None of you have the right to insult me so much, and you have no right.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0276par0237	Does national will exist to cover up corruption?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0273par0238	Respect the national will before, and please, if you have some information and documents, go to the judge and try to prove it in court.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0276par0239	Does the national will tell you to commit corruption?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0277par0240	Yeah, well, you don't give up judgment so it works.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0273par0241	If you can prove it, I'll even be with you, and if you can prove it, but you can't prove it, you're a mufter.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0278par0243	No arguments, bring the riots. You're saying there's no judgment left.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0273par0244	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit06spe0279par0245	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit07spe0279par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 56th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 524. [[Continue]] Commission? Here. Government? Here. I'm reading the final motion on Article 66:
tbmm-2014-02-04sit07spe0280par0011	Mr. President, won't you promise not to tease me?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit07spe0279par0012	We're taking a break. You know better than I do, it's been done enough.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit07spe0280par0013	But it didn't, it wasn't fair. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The 66th article of the proposed law bill, 524 rows, is prevented from being isolated and kept separate from the community at 4/B. "It is prevented by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and its respective units. We propose and propose that it be changed in the form. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends
tbmm-2014-02-04sit07spe0281par0017	Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit07spe0282par0018	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit07spe0281par0019	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit07spe0283par0020	We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit07spe0281par0021	Yes, I'm reading the reason: Under the equivalence clause in the Constitution, all forms of discrimination defined in Article 66 against the disabled have been considered a crime and are covered by the Turkish Penal Code. It is also mentioned in order to prevent discrimination against disabled persons and to ensure equality and to take the necessary measures for the active and equal participation of disabled people in community life. But these measures have been left unclear by who and what institution will be taken and who will be audited. Unless these titles are filled with more specific statements, the matter will have no response. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the 67th article, which I read and process in order: T. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill is 67. This is the number 5. We propose that the specific needs of the matter be replaced by the expression "special and general needs of the matter." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ajan Ayadın Haluk Eyidoğan Veli Agha Haydar Akar Aylin Nazlıaka I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 67 of the current law bill 524 be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Günal Özcan Yeniçeri Muharrem Varlı The title of Article No. 67-5378 of the Law has been changed as follows: "Instruction Status, Support and Maintenance, Abelitation and Rehab, Employment, Education and Education, Accessibility," and the title of Article 5 of the Law. MADDE 5- International basic methods are based on ratings, classifications and diagnostics that determine the disability and the special needs of the individual due to disability. The service has lost as much as 80% of the labour force, is first-degree disabled, second-degree disabled, and third-degree disabled, who has lost as much as 40% of the labour force. The identification and implementation of the disability situation are determined by a joint regulation issued by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, receiving the views of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and the Ministry of National Education." Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit07spe0284par0044	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit07spe0281par0045	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit07spe0285par0046	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit07spe0281par0047	Mr Varlı, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit07spe0286par0049	Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you about the motion that we've submitted on the 67th amendment of the current bag of legislation. On this occasion, I salute you all. This bag of legislation provides many special privileges and brings out 126 articles. There's even a special clause here about the owners' purchases or the fact that their planes aren't being impounded. But there's nothing about the farmer, about the laborer, about the earners himself. Farmers were once given loans to buy cattle from the Agriculture Bank. They went from different places to 6,000 liras, 7,000 liras -- six billion dollars, seven billion dollars -- they came from different places. Now, those heifers are down to two billion, two and a half billion. Milk isn't worth anything, the bait is too expensive. Thus, it seems impossible for animals to make money in that sense. Many of these animals will have to be cut off if their debt to the Bank of Agriculture is not designed for a configuration, instalment or re-designation, such special privileges as yours. So you'll be causing the female animals to be slaughtered. The number of cattle in Turkey will again be largely prevented from falling and from becoming dairy nerds and cattle livestock. So, in this sense, the loans at the Farm Bank need to be restructured and the farmers need to take a breather, or there's no way they're going to be able to run it. Again, many farmers owe farm loans. The agricultural loan is selling fertilizer on the market today. It's actually an institution that's in the farmer's best interest, which is supposed to benefit the farmer, which is supposed to contribute, but when you look at it, you're dealing with the price of fertilizer on the free market. There, too, the farmers have a lot of accumulated debt, and they can't pay it, so many farmers are being held in foreclosures on their tractors, their fields. Why don't you keep the farmer's field and tractor from being impounded when you're preventing plane owners from impounding their planes, their purchases? I told you the other day, is this farmer a stepchild or a second-rate citizen of this country? I mean, why don't you ever think about the farmer and see how you make special laws like that? If the farmer hasn't paid his wages, his field is impounded, if his tractor is impounded, his car is impounded, he's turning traffic everywhere, he's commandeering these tractors, the vehicles, but the plane owners' planes, and it's not foreclosed on; such an arrangement. Now, about the price of fertilizer... you've reduced the VAT from 18 to 18% in gold prices, silver, emeralds, and ornaments, still 18 percent in fertilizer. One of the farmer's most expensive costs is fertilizer. Why don't you reset the VAT in the fertilizer? I've talked about it many times, I've proposed the law many times, I've made a motion to ask questions, but every time, you've rejected it with the thought that it would cause additional inconvenience. Now, doesn't it bring additional burdens to the government? No, you're ignoring him. And if we were to look out for our farmer, our worker, the freckle dollars in these shoe boxes, the dollars in bribes and corruption that were claimed to have been taken -- a large sum of about 100 million dollars -- let's give this money to our farmer, let's please him, let's make them produce a little bit more. Unfortunately, there's no such thought, but their sweats were tolerated in someone's shoebox as a freckled dollar or for them to be comfortable, for them to build villas. Still in the judiciary, the police are still being appointed in that sense. Why? The reason is to get them cleared as soon as possible. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit07spe0287par0056	Thank you, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit07spe0288par0057	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit07spe0287par0058	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0287par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 56th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Muharrem Varli and his friends' motion to vote had not been reached enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume the talks of Bill 524. Commission? Here. Government? Here. I'm reading the final motion on Article 67: T. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill is 67. This is the number 5. We propose that the specific needs of the matter be replaced by the expression "special and general needs of the matter." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0289par0013	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0287par0014	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0290par0015	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0287par0016	Mr. Altay, who will speak?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0291par0017	Aylin Nazliaka, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0287par0018	Mr. Nazlıaka, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0292par0020	Mr. President, I have made a promise regarding Article 67 of the 524th Amendment. I salute the High Council. Now, dear lawmakers, we're seeing another bag of laws at this hour. So, we understood very, very well after the December 17th operation and the Trips, when democracies were bagged, freedoms were packaged, and what you meant by the third mastery period. Look, we were at Kayseri yesterday with a lot of my fellow lawmakers. In Kayseri, we went to see the trial of Ali Ismail Korkmaz. Now, I'm going to ask you to do something very simple, Mr. Secretary, and I'm going to ask you to do this: close your eyes for a few seconds, dear lawmakers, and imagine that Ali Ismail Korkmez, put yourself in the place of his mother or father, or -- we've all seen those disgusting footage -- if you don't have any children, your own child, your own loved one, or yourself, was beaten to death, like Ali Ismail Kormaz. How do you feel? Look, as a politician, I'm ashamed of the people who gave this order and the people who took the baker's sticks from civilian people, took the arrows, beat up that young 19-year-old plant, and the political power that encouraged them to beat that language. Look, as a politician, I'm ashamed of it, and I hope you're ashamed of it. Oh, I don't know, Mr. Prime Minister, when he looks at you, I don't know which one of you is salted and which one of you is pepperoni, but when I look at you, I see people. So if you're really human, if I see correctly, then I have to assume you have a conscience. If you have a conscience, then we expect you to call Ali Ismail Korkmaz's mother and at least offer her condolences, my friends. We are waiting for you to call the family of Mehmet Ayvallıtaş. We are waiting for you to call the family of Ethem Sarısuluk. We are waiting for you to call the family of Civil Yıldırım. We are waiting for you to call the family of Ahmet Atakan. These young people died for democracy, look, they used their freedom rights. Yesterday, you also tried to block the freedom of travel of around 5,000 young people who came to watch this trial. Do you know what they did when you tried to stop them from entering the city? They hung a piece of paper in front of the buses, saying it belongs to IHH and MIT. So we could get in more comfortable, not be searched, they said. Do you know what Ali Ishmael's mother said in the hall yesterday: "I am very sorry that I lost my son, but at least if he had been killed with a bullet instead of being beaten to death, then he would have suffered less." Look, as I hear this, I'm ashamed, aren't you ashamed? Do you not feel guilty about these things? Berkin Elvan -- the same age as my son -- went out to buy bread, and he's been in a coma for two hundred and thirty-five days. Look, this kid's in a coma, and one of you didn't call and tell him to get better, and one of you didn't attend a trial. Tomorrow is the trial of the murderers of Mehmet Ayvallıtaş. Ali Ismail Korkmaz has his next hearing on May 12th. I invite you from here to search for these families, to offer their condolences, and also to attend this trial. Because if you have a conscience, if you're really human, then it's the right thing to do. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Because politics is the work of the heart, friends, politics is the work of the heart. What happened to the cops you call "Hashhashi" today? What happened today when those young boys were beaten up there, and they were exposed to gas bombs, and you rewarded them, and you gave them bonuses? With all those people dying at that time, you only fired one cop, three ministers' sons today...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0293par0030	Thank you, Mr. Nazliaka.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0292par0031	You moved 6,000 police officers after you got involved. What's the matter, huh? You have to explain these things to us. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0293par0034	Thank you, Mr. Nazliaka. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. There are two proposals in Article 68. I'll have them read and processed in order: T. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 68 of the current bill. We would like to change the expression "support and care" in the article to "support and care services." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ajan Ayadın Haluk Eyidoğan Veli Agha HaydarAkar Aylin Nazlıaka I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 68 of Law 524 be changed as follows. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu MADDE has been changed in the following way, along with Article 6 of Article 68-5378 of the Law. MADDE 6-Employment services are a social right. Within the social security system, any rehabilitation service is performed in interaction and co-operation with a medical social professional and community-based rehabilitation service. Documents that require home care services are provided as part of the community service, free of charge by local authorities. Local government budgets are funded for these services. Psychosocial support and care services are provided primarily in order for disabled people to live independently in their environment. The presentation of support and care services also takes into account the family's biological, physical, psychological, social, cultural and spiritual needs. The work needed for standardisation, development and spread of support and care services is conducted by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0294par0057	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0293par0058	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0295par0059	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0293par0060	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0296par0061	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0293par0062	Read the reason. Maintenance services have been accepted as a social right, and documents needed for home care services are intended to be provided as part of the public service, free of charge by local governments, and therefore grants in local government budgets. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 68 of the current bill. We would like to change the expression "support and care" in the article to "support and care services." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0297par0071	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0293par0072	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0298par0073	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0293par0074	Mr. Nazlıaka, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0299par0076	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm picking up where I left off. Now, I just told you, I don't know which one of you is salty and which one is pepperoni. However, since this is a law related to disabled persons, I would like to first share some data on this issue with you. Look, your time in the AKP period is no doubt a time when poverty, deprivation, and bans have reached the moon, but at the same time, we are going through a time when there is also a heightened period of extensibility, segregation and overwhelmingness. And at a time like this, the disabled, of course, get their share of the process, whether they want to or not. We live in a period where streets, streets, buildings, disabled people are built by ignoring, and in public institutions and institutions, the employment of disabled persons and disabled staffs are left empty. That's why -- look -- I'm going to share some numbers with you about the disabled. For one thing, you're playing with statistical data because you're trying to reduce the number of disabled people in order to reduce the budget for their needy pension that's attached to them. We know that 12 percent of our population is disabled, but according to your data, there are 5 million, according to other data elsewhere. Look, we have 1,550,000 disabled citizens registered in the National Malables Database. 62% of our disabled citizens are unemployed, 51 per cent can't be treated, 44 per cent don't have social security, 76 per cent don't participate in the workforce, 71 per cent don't have education opportunities, they can't benefit from education opportunities. This is the state of the disabled in your time, dear friends. In fact, I'd like it to be Minister Aysenur Islam. The former Minister, Fatma Şahin, was running out whenever I made a commitment to the General Assembly; this Minister, I believe, chose not to come into the hall at all.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0300par0080	I wonder why.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0299par0081	But I especially want to say that when this Minister takes over from the former Minister, Mr. Secretary, my job is very difficult because you have raised the bar too high. Look, for the first time, the Minister said the right thing, he raised the bar too high. Why?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0301par0082	Service.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0299par0083	I'll tell you what bar has gone up: Turkey has reached the highest point in terms of male and female inequality. Look, he's reached the highest point in children's rights where children are being crushed. I've just told you about the condition of the disabled, the disabled, they've been reached the highest point in terms of decomposition, crushation, and decomposition. Now, when he's going through a process like this, he's telling the truth, the bar's really pulled up.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0302par0084	Go ask the disabled, the disabled. Have you ever asked a handicapped person?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0299par0085	Today, if five of our women are killed every day, if one of our three women is abused, if one of our three children is a daughter-in-law, if women's unemployment has reached 70 percent, if women work without social security, you are responsible for 48 percent. See, that's why I'm telling you, you really raised the bar too high. Do you know how many numbers of women's suicides have reached in Turkey today? Those women can't stand harassment, rape, sexual abuse -- they're drawing a scenario that looks like they fell when they wiped the glass -- they're committing suicide. Look, these guys... we have a history of child rights. Just a few days ago, a bag of garbage came out of a child's body, a severed child's body. Why is it so cruel, that children, daughters and women, and the disabled, have stopped being seen as human beings? Here, we'd like to ask you to account for each and every one of these. In your day, when harassment, rape, child abuse are being perceived as one of the practical practices of the day, we will continue to fight for the equality of men and women, for the rights of the disabled, for our veterans, for our martyrs, and for the child's rights, he says, respect.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0303par0090	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two proposals in Article 69. I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 69th of the current bill of law. We would like to change the term "convenient" in the article to "improveable." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Mehmet Ali Sesam Musa Pine I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 69 of the current law bill 524 be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Article 69-5378 has been changed in the following way, along with Article 7 of the Law. Article 7- In order to ensure accessibility for disabled persons in the structured environment, planning, design, construction, manufacturing, licensing and auditing process provides accessibility standards. Accessibility is considered a whole. The information system, access from the dwelling to the stop, buses, sidewalk is part of this whole thing. Private and public transport systems and public public transportation vehicles with nine or more seats, except for the driver's seat, must be available to the disabled. Information services and information technology are provided to be accessible to disabled persons." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0304par0114	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0303par0115	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0305par0116	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0303par0117	Mr. Yeniçeri, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0306par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on Article 69. I salute you all. The quality of societies is measured by their importance to the disabled. It's a human duty to make life habitable for the disabled. In this context, making the structured environment accessible to everyone, especially the disabled. Of course, it is imperative that the structured environment be reorganized for the needs of disabled people. These regulations are also consistent with the standards of licensing and auditing processes. The provision of the law is, as such, correct and appropriate to satisfy the needs. In every aspect of life, it is a moral obligation to make the lives of disabled and disadvantaged citizens easier. For disabled people, accessibility is also a basic human right. Countless laws and regulations are being made to address the problems of our disabled citizens. The lack of proper implementation of regulations limits their contribution to disabled citizens. Despite all the arrangements, the lack of serious ease in the lives of disabled citizens is relevant to this aspect of the issue. In fact, it's more of a matter of mentality and culture than a matter of law. At this stage, it is a step in the right direction that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has brought this arrangement for the accessibility of the disabled, but it is imperative that the ministry, along with this law, change its perspective on the problems of the disabled. It is also thought to various ministers and ministries regarding the problems of disabled persons, especially the question proposals that I have submitted to close to 100, and that there is no serious response to these motions. I'd like to briefly share with you the headlines of our questions proposals. The motion for the disabled to make their travel through the city and the intercity; the motion to ask the disabled for various eases in the area of communication; the motion for the question concerning the construction of ferryports, the maintenance of airports in line with the disabled; the motion for the removal of barriers in front of the education access; the question of the municipal municipalities; the question of the questions concerning the organisement of education programmes for the disabled by the municipalities; the question of the disabled citizens on the bus and metrobus; the question concerning the proposals for the removal of the municipal and public buildings; the question of the proposal for the use of the disabled; and the question of the questions concerning the environmental treatments of the disabled citizens related to the environment; and the question of the questions related to the environments related to the environmental services of the disabled. These questions have not been answered by the relevant ministries. Probably not because they couldn't find the answer. This is proof that the situation of the disabled, on the other hand, the power, has come to the point in such a nonsensical way. The law regulations for the disabled are already in favour of almost all of the issues mentioned in the question motions, but they are not implemented. Today, we have concerns that changes made here will remain on paper again. The government adopts some laws to complete the formalities or to greet the EU. We don't even have healthy knowledge of the disabled population in our country today. It is obvious how successful applications can be without that knowledge. Full data on the disabled population must be collected. The deficiencies of disabled rights monitoring mechanisms must be repaired. Negative attitudes to disabled persons must be taken against discrimination. Without these problems, there is no way to resolve the problems of the disabled with a number of laws that will be limited to the effect of practice. While we're trying to solve the problems of the disabled, you're trying to make the Internet disabled, which is a strange contradiction of yours. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0307par0128	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 69th of the current bill of law. It is essential that the expression in its article be reversible. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0308par0135	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0307par0136	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0309par0137	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0307par0138	Mr. Sesame, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0310par0140	Mr. President, I've made a commitment to discuss an extension clause that we've extended to 2018, which has been removed in 2005, but has not taken steps in eight years. First of all, I'd like to point out why we haven't done this in eight years. What's our basic lack of success? I want to underline that. Rather than looking at the European Union or legislation that drives us to uphold the law, we must certainly have an understanding that will facilitate the life of the disabled and allow the disabled to be integrated into life. And for that, the government should invest. This investment should be in environment, nature, building, vehicle, education, health and so on. You can't solve it like this: 300-500-1 a month for the disabled. I'm paying you $ 000, and you can't say it solves the problem. When you say that, you think you've taken the disabled out of life and satisfied the disabled with just the money given. My dear friends, for eight years, this was the city bus, the van, the service... and now something's been added -- a positive step -- building vehicles for the ferry and other public transportation vehicles that disabled people can use. I've done a survey, there are 440,000 buses and vans, 220 thousand bus buses, 220 thousand bus buses for public transportation. The number of these so far has been changed is very limited. Turkey can be replaced in two provinces, Istanbul and Bursa. And the cost of just one change isn't less than $10,000. So, what were you supposed to do in the last eight years, taking out that law? The owners of these vehicles also needed support to change and convert these vehicles. For example, these vehicles were supposed to be contributed to renovating or transforming without PTSD and VAT, but instead of putting their hand under the stone, the government is trying to continue this work with extensions. Now, there's going to be a new problem with the law. 440,000 vans and service vehicles will not be able to replace or renovate 220 thousand buses by 2018, and you will ask for an extension at 2018. And as for these extensions, you're going to think you're going to solve it by bringing new burdens on the citizens and the transportation industry. The way to do this is that you do not take their SVV and VAT in a clear number in order to make them attractive and encourage the disabled to be able to use them. In this regard, we've suggested that the taxis avoid theft and extortion, not to take any SVR and VAT once in a while to build cabs. That didn't happen either. There's a whole thing going on here. Dear friends, facilitating the lives of disabled persons may be the case of the state putting its hand on the stone and encouraging the community, or it will not solve the problems of the transport sector, as it would not in any way contribute to the disabled by enlarging law in its due time. Here I bring clear advice to the Ministry and to the government: Remove the OTV and VAT, see how quickly you can find luxury tools for the disabled to move in with new vehicles, which can be done. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0311par0148	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two proposals in Article 70. I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 70 of the current bill of law. We'd like to add the phrase "rehabilitation and rehabilitation" to the clause. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Musa Pine Mehmet Ali Sesam I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added at the end of the first sentence of Article 70 of the current law bill 524. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu "It is essential to provide protective, preventive and early diagnostics, screening and rehabilitation services in order to prevent an epidemic of epidemiological diseases." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0312par0167	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0311par0168	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0313par0169	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0311par0170	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0314par0172	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 70th Amendment. I salute you all. I'm particularly careful not to leave the subject as discussed as much as possible in these bag of draft talks, and I'm forcing myself to do so. And we're also trying to make positive contributions to the potential. But, dear friends, there are so many grave developments that we are faced with events that we would not believe if we could just hear them. Turkey is under a completely off-the-book rule. You know, it's called an off-book economy, let's just leave it at that, it's all off-the-book activities, and the prime minister's in charge of these off-the-book activities. It's not a government administration, it's a gang activity. We're going through such a desperate process. Can you imagine, a country's Prime Minister calling the news managers of televisions, media coordinators, the president of the National Movement Party, censoring, removing the news about Mr. State Gardenli, and that, in all our knowledge, has become undisclosed, irrefutable. It's a shame and it's a shame, that's all... and more than that, it's a crime in the first place. What kind of power is this, what kind of state and politics is this? I said, "I will rule every area, everything." Is it possible to talk about democracy, law, human rights in this country? Is it possible to talk about the equal political race? Turkey is being held hostage by a criminal gang that is up to its neck in corruption. No one's life or property is guaranteed. Turkey has been occupied for a month and a half with a cover-up of corruption, evidence is stored, destroyed; prosecutors, police are exiled, pressured; Judges and Prosecutors' High Council are being disbanded; bribes, zoning corruption, money laundering, smuggling and so on. Shoeboxes, millions of dollars, bribes spread around, the foundation of the Prime Minister's son Bilal Erdogan, has become a bribe centre, the plot, the land business, the zoning business has become an area of expertise, and the foundation, which he manages, has been deposited $100 million into the bank account, and it can't be denied. It's a public statement for businessmen to negotiate with the commission. Pools have been formed, it is said that the Prime Minister is the one who makes the pools. A parliamentary question motion is requested to be censored and is requested to be removed from its website. Now, these, unfortunately, are not acceptable situations, but Turkey is being dragged into a much more severe domestic turmoil every day, which must be responsible for the ruling party group in the first degree. I, members of the Justice and Development Party, invite my fellow lawmakers to demonstrate the necessary strength, sensitivity, and will. Dear friends, we're discussing a bag of bills, and tomorrow we're going to see another bag of bills at Plan and Budget Commission. I'm going to go into a little bit more detail on the next item, but it's pretty much the same stuff that we're talking about in the bag right now, and it's in this bag again. What kind of planlessness, what lack of programming, what kind of government is this, and what a complete surprise and disaster we are facing now. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, and I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0315par0181	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 70 of the current bill of law. We'd like to add the phrase "rehabilitation and rehabilitation" to the clause. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0316par0188	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0315par0189	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0317par0190	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0315par0191	Mr. Sesame, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0318par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to pick up where I left off. I'd like to share with you as someone who's actually seen how important it is to put them in life about disabled people. I'm interested in a school for disabled children. Children who come to this school need special training. They have a tutor. Most of these families are poor families. You can see how clearly these kids have improved from the day they came to these schools in their three-year training period. And one of the most important things that you see there is the development of the child, the change, the way you see life, the way your family spends the time of the child's freedom to go to school, and they're happy to see the improvements in their child. And once again, you see the need for the government to invest in this area, but the government doesn't invest in this area. Instead of investing, there is an understanding that prevents those families from giving their families a certain amount of money, delaying them from adapting to life in their own homes as prisoners. So this is actually a clause about adapting the disabled to life, but in order to do that, we need the government to invest. That's the only way to look at disabled people instead of stepping up at this point. Dear friends, this is three years of training. After three years of training, you can't get these people jobs or give them a chance to start a new school. In three years, you'll have to lock up the boy who's been educated, used to school, who's been in touch with life again. Why do we have to do this? Why don't we take a step forward in creating the amount of education, infrastructure that these people have to go on with their lives? That's basically how you look at the disabled. We need to get that handicapped into the community. Look, our disableds are locked up in their homes, abandoned to their own destiny, but get out to other countries of the world, to their developed countries, to their disabled lives. We have to look at this with that understanding. And I'd like to spend a very short period of time on something that's just been discussed: about the truckers, the President of Mevlüt said something about the K plates. He pays 17,500 lira with 500 trucks and $1,500 with a truck. They promised to change in the commission. He said, "Yes, I did, with the Minister... the Minister didn't know about the matter." I said, as someone inside the council, I'll tell you. That's the way it is. It's the same as 500 trucks and 1 truck. In good faith, the minister asked the ministry bureaucrats. They said: "This is the policy of the ministry." What is the policy of the Ministry, do you know? One by one, to remove trucking and encourage logistics companies, one by one, one by 17,500, one by K, one by bread, one by bread, one by child, one by child, one by child, and one by trucker who wants to take care of his disabled child, you get $1,500 out of his pocket. The trucker never had $17,500 in his pocket! Some people's cars are not worth $17,500 if you sell a truck. I'm telling you, please, to the ruling party MPs, before this law changes, before this law goes away, change that rule of law with a repetitive debate. During the local election, those truckers will be asking you to pay for it. You can't answer to those truckers. The AKP, which supports the logistics company of 500 vehicles, is giving $1,500 to 1 trucker. I want you to think about what you're going to say here, and once again, by consulting your conscience, you're going to have to renegotiate this law clause, renegotiate it, change it into 1 truck, take it down, and bring it back from logistics companies per truck. If you don't, you'll be doing the biggest injustice to the trucker who's trying to buy a truck and take his kids out of the country without any burden. Once again, I present the situation to you, and give you my regards.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0319par0202	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 71. I'm going to process them in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 71 of the current bill. Article 13. After the statement made by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security at the end of the clause, we request the opinion of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy to be added to the expression. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Muharrem Ilk Ramis Topal Fatma Nur Serker I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following jokes be added after the third joke of Article 71 of the current law bill 524. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu "Before starting occupational rehabilitation services, professional and disabled profiles of the region's workforce need are provided. The work analysis results in the work of disabled persons involved in the Law on the Employment of the Cripples, and the work they can do is re-detected according to modern technology and needs. Employees working in the field of vocational rehabilitation for disabled persons are subject to at least two years of pedagogical formalisation training after vocational training." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0320par0222	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0319par0223	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0321par0224	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0319par0225	Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0322par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I'm trying to understand what law we're actually discussing. We're interviewing the so-called law, but I think you'll all be interested in an Internet audio recording. Mr. Prime Minister Haberturk is making a phone call to Fatih Saraç. During the Prime Minister's trip to Tunisia, Mr. Bahçeli instructs that subtitled news from Haberturk will be withdrawn from television after meeting with the President. Just like this -- I can play it for you if you want -- and I'll play it tomorrow -- but what's interesting here is that Mr. Prime Minister Saraç is looking for Mr. Governor Sarac. He says, "Here you are, Prime Minister." I'm watching TV here in Morocco. Mehmet Fatih Saraç: Yes, sir. Recep Tayyip Erdogan: Now all the talks of the Gardener are being passed on as tape at the bottom...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0323par0232	Forward democracy!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0324par0233	Listen carefully, this is where it all ends, this is where it all ends.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0322par0234	From censorship to the Internet interviews we'll be interviewing tomorrow, I assume you'll all be able to see a scandal in plain sight. In fact, everything's gone bankrupt. Those who run the Republic of Turkey are bankrupt. The leaders of the Republic of Turkey have also demonstrated how they set up their own dictatorship regimes, and unfortunately -- this country -- shows how all the press is controlled and controlled by power, and what a scheme is being orchestrated. I mean, can you imagine, those who can't stand the fact that an opposition party's speeches and statements are even subtitled are talking about advanced democracy. Let them love your advanced democracy! Shame on you. And after that, you say, "Presist like a man." That's not how a man's opposition works when he's not in power. You should be ashamed of it, all of you, all of you. A scandal like this has not yet been written by history, but unfortunately it's written on behalf of your Prime Minister. Way to go! My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0325par0237	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 71 of the current bill. Article 13. After the statement made by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security at the end of the clause, we request the opinion of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy to be added to the expression. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0326par0244	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0325par0245	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0327par0246	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0325par0247	Mr. Eyeborn, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0328par0249	Mr. President, we have a saying that the memory has been reduced to human Nisyan. Now, I'm going to read you a letter that was written to me on a date concerning the problems of the disabled, which I pulled out of my archives. My dear MP, both personally and as a spiritual figure of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I am ashamed to admit the matter, which I have taken from your mission, human rights, justice, consistency, stability, dare and courage, has been made the most important issue, as if it were a matter of shame. In 2005, the Crippled Law was issued, and with 2 temporary substances, seven years were given to organise public spaces and public transportation to allow disabled persons to leave the house and to get out of the house and work, participate in life, study, and work. As of last week, the Plan Budget Commission has decided to extend the bag to a year as a supposed success, with the recommendation of one of the AKP MPs from Adana. The negotiations of this law will begin as of this week. It's nothing more than another year of imprisonment in our homes that have become a prison. Our basic human rights are as obvious as our freedom of travel, our right to education, our right to work, and our rights of knowledge, the impossible to use with inappropriate sidewalks, public transportation vehicles, buildings, as obvious as the sun, as our unexplored brothers. The protection of the victim, not the victim, is an odd situation from the point of justice. Sadly, they're being attempted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has made a commitment by enforcing the Law. It is a fact that has passed hundreds of laws that have preceded man, and that in every sense that our country and our people have come to a better place, it will only be the equivalent of insulting you and our Assembly of the Great National Assembly and you, our beloved MP. Between your extremely demanding, difficult, busy work, we ask for the forgiveness of occupying your time with this matter. We pay our respects to you, to your family, to your property, along with our wishes for health, happiness, and success. Signed... Do you know, Mr. AKP MPs, do you know the owner of this letter? He was one of you... Mr. Lokman Ayva, AKP İstanbul MP for the 22nd and 23rd term, the first blind MP. My respects, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0329par0258	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 72, which I make to read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 72nd Amendment. We would like to add the expression "all" before the term "institution and organizations" in the article. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and add the following joke to come after the first joke of Article 72 of the current law bill 524. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu "The amendments to economic conditions and the disadvantages in the working life of disabled persons are made by regulations required to give social support to disabled people who want to start their own business, as well as social support from various financial institutions and institutions." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0330par0277	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0329par0278	Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0331par0279	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0329par0280	Read the reason. An arrangement between the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the financial institution and its institutions aim is to grant the disabled a low-interest disability entrepreneur loan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 72nd Amendment. We would like to add the expression "all" before the term "institution and organizations" in the article. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and Friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0332par0289	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0329par0290	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0333par0291	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0329par0292	Mr. Çelebi, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0334par0294	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I salute you with respect and love. Dear friends, I really want you to think: In fact, Turkey has been busy with the corruption agenda since December 17th. This Parliament's mandate is to work with its opposition and its power towards the focus of this problem. You know, there's this thing right now, I mean, we're telling each other here, but here's the interference with the opposition party, the attempts at other tenders, the wills expressed here, when we evaluate the ministers' roles in this process, either because we need to question this process, I think we need to sit down and reassess it. We're at a point last week: the DİSK, KESK, Medical Union, architects, engineers and those who opposed the poverty of this country, those who opposed corruption, acted in Ankara with this slogan; how far is it, so far, this job is over. Now, should we not question the process that is happening here, this process about us, as a friend of yours, as a member of the Parliament? Shouldn't we question him? Now, the Prime Minister came out, you know, in 2008, he used a sentence like, "The crisis has passed us by." The crisis, which is called "the tangent has passed through this country's workers, its poor, its farmers, its farmers, and now it seems that the real workers of this country have paid more for these crises, rather than pay this price, they have fed on the opposite crisis, they have grown larger, they have strengthened their economy. That's the kind of painting Turkey faces. So, shouldn't this be questioned? The Faziz lobby, the lobby has been created. There have been statements about interest, but when the economic board was decided last time, when the ministers came together, not a single sentence about the interest lobby was raised, and when the Central Bank made a statement, we'll look at it, and we'll look at it. He says, "But nothing new is produced at this point." So, when we look at the point where all these processes are coming from, what we really need to question is to create a cure for poverty and corruption in this country. Look, the potato weighs up to $5 a pound. The beans went up to 10 liras per kilo.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0335par0298	It's gonna come out, it's gonna come out.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0334par0299	If there's any more, you'll like it. Your salt is dry, you want it to come out even more. Because you don't want the citizens of this country to eat, you want them to crawl. I don't expect much from you, but it's in the economy of countries called developed, so in Europe, potatoes are between five and ten cents. If that means anything to you, the price of potatoes and beans in Turkey already means everything. So instead of bragging about it, you should be at the point of making a solution. But I do know that the ones with the salt dry, the ones with the money right now don't have that problem. We don't care about them anyway, we're going to say, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to tell, we're going to do, we're going to do, we're going to do, [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we'll send it by horn, and there's no other way. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0336par0303	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0337par0306	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0336par0307	Roll call?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0337par0308	Yes, let's do it, Mr. President. Let's make a move.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0336par0309	I think so, too. I'm sleepy. Mr. Altay, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Light, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Guler, Mr. Acar, Mr. Öz, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Gök, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Ater, Mr. Akar, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Aslanoğlu. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start. [[Checked with electronic device]] Yeah, there's plenty of meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 73, I have them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 73rd of the current bill of law. At the end of its Article, we would like to request that the statement of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy be added to its statement. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Musa Pine Dilek Akagün Yilmaz I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose that the following joke be added after the third joke of Article 73 of the current law bill 524. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu "The staff, who will work at schools where the disabled are educated, will be subject to pedagogical formation training for at least a year after training in their professions. It's made by investigators who take inspections and audit systems in the field of education and tutoring for disabled people." Is the commission in?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0338par0338	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0336par0339	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0339par0340	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0336par0341	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0340par0342	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0336par0343	Read the reason. Reason: The staff employed at schools where disabled people are educated should be subjected to at least a year of pedagogical formalisation training and will be conducted by inspectors of special and knit training experts who are trained by disabled people. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 73rd of the current bill of law. At the end of its Article, we would like to request that the statement of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy be added to its statement. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0341par0351	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0336par0352	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0342par0353	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0336par0354	Mr. Yilmaz, are you going to speak?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0343par0355	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0336par0356	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0343par0357	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the law, our women from the footman today -- from our Avgan town, from Ulubey Avgan land -- arrived, our tobacco farmers came and shouted. Our products are worthless, our products are worthless, and now we are on the verge of starvation, but I don't know if any of you have heard of it. I'd like to ask you, don't people complain when you go to villages? Don't they say we can't feed ourselves anymore, we can't keep our heads down? Don't you hear that? Don't you listen to the voices of these people? At our group meeting today, the women asked Mr. President for help screaming, tobacco-producing women. There must be some of you who know how to work tobacco. For 11 months, tobacco farmers work, especially women work. These women sow, then they anchor, then they break, then they knee, then they medicate, they deal with tobacco for 11 months. AFTER the privatisation of TEKEL in 2008, after TECEL was withdrawn from the market, our women, our tobacco farmers, were completely condemned to the merchant. They've been signing contracts -- they've been seeing a little bit of tobacco producers around the butler for three years -- they're signing contracts with a trader at $12, but you know what, what happened this year in particular? The trader bought the tobacco they signed at 12 liras, bought it at $7, and bought it at $6. To those who object, the merchant says: "Take your tobacco and do what you will. " What will he do with his tobacco? Is there anything he can do? Acquisitions of support were made by TECEL, which is no longer being made after 2008. These women have to give their tobacco to that merchant, and they can't even pay off their advance. Our people now owe money to tobacco companies, who represent these foreign companies in the villages of Avgan district of Ulubey. The next year, whether they want it or not, they'll be able to grow tobacco again, and they'll still owe it to the merchant. Is there such a vicious circle, dear friends? How do you feel about that? The peasant's tobacco isn't worth money, the peasant's grapes aren't worth money, the peasant's animal isn't worth money, his milk isn't worth money, his beets aren't worth money, but on the other hand, the fertilizer prices are so much higher, he can't take his vows anymore, he's trying to feed his animals with hay, he's getting diesel, he's gone for $5, but you're ignoring them. As far as I can try to tell you a story about this tobacco: prior to the Republic, before the Ottoman Empire, a company called the Reji Corporation was being made tobacconist by a company of foreign capital, producing cigarettes. Later, tobacco, along with the republic, was stateed in 1925, and cigarette production was stateed. We were exporting tobacco to the United States in 1928. But what happened? Multinational companies have coveted the profits in this tobacco and have now said that governments must withdraw from these jobs and that privatisations have been launched, especially after 1965. In our country, also with regulations that began in 1994, tobacco imports were first released, then Turkish tobacco quotas were placed, then privatisation decisions were made -- during your time -- then in 2004 you gave to the Mei Company, the liquor company, the liquor company, and then you sold the cigarette company to the tobacco market for nothing. Now, you guys are the reason our villagers are in this situation today. Is your heart not burning at all, or have you no parents, or relatives who deal in tobacco? How could you make people so needy, how could your heart afford it? I'm asking you this on behalf of the villagers who worked on Turkish tobacco. How far will this arrangement go? How far will this privatisation fair go? How long will this privatisation take you, this money, this bribe money? But people see it now. They see there's a corruption operation behind each privatisation, and they're going to ask you to account for it in the first election. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now you'll get the answer to all the wrongs you've done in the election. I wish you all a good day.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0344par0365	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions in Article 74, which I make to read in order: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the bill be changed in the bill "Special Education Evaluation Board," under Article 74 of the current law bill 524. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Hasip Kaplan Altan Tan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 74 of the current law bill 524 be changed in the following way. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Article 16 of the Law 74-5378 has been changed in the following way. "MEDDE 16- The work and operations related to the educational assessment, recognition and direction of individuals are made by the special training evaluation board established within the guidance and research centre. In each phase of this process, the family is informed about the view and is involved in the process. As a result of educational evaluation and diagnosis, the report is prepared and the education plan is developed when special training evaluation is set up for individuals who are determined to need special education. This plan is revised every year. The diagnosis of individuals in need of special education (medical and educational), categorization (mental, vision, hearing, continuous etc.), and the establishment and supervision of private educational institutions are provided to reevaluate special education programmes on the needs of the day. The special education evaluation board directs individuals in need of special education to the interests, requests, developmental properties, the competence of academic discipline, and in line with education needs, and to the common educational institutions. The body's nature and working procedures and fundamentals are determined by a joint regulation issued by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and by the Ministry of National Education." Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0345par0387	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0344par0388	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0346par0389	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0347par0390	Motive.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0344par0391	Motive. The diagnosis of individuals in need of special education (medical and educational), categorization (mental, vision, hearing, continuous etc.), and the establishment of private educational institutions and the review of special education programmes on the needs of the day. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the bill be changed in the bill "Special Education Evaluation Board," under Article 74 of the current law bill 524. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0348par0400	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0344par0401	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0349par0402	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0344par0403	Read the reason, please. Reason: The definition of the Special Education Evaluation Board, its function, its function, and the expertise of staff that will work in the Article text are not specified. The disabled person must be qualified for social, psychological, physiological development. It is intended that experts who will take part in changing this board as a social services board and who will take part in the board of directors will be made up of at least four years of graduates in the field of social rights and social justice, who have been trained in social change, who have been able to strengthen groups and communities, to consider it a dynamic factor in liberalisation and psychosocial, physiological development, human behavior, development psychology, and social system theory, to be able to benefit from at least four years of graduate education or equalisation in the field of social services, or even an expert who has been approved by authorities. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 75, which I make to read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the terms of the 524-thirteenth amendment of the law shall be changed in the form of 7/7/2018 (7/7/2016). Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the adoption of the 75th Amendment clause of the Law and Law Law Charter to change the provisions of the State of the Family and Social Policy Ministry in 524 rows, and the evaluation of the following articles. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Hasan Ören Hülya Güven Birgül Ayman Güler Haluk Ahmet Silver Ali Serindağ Mehmet Ali Sesame Melda Onur Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0350par0424	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0344par0425	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0351par0426	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0344par0427	Mr. Onur, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0352par0428	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, at this time of night, there are many different kinds of laws, many different kinds of talks. On the one hand, everyone sees -- from the tablets, either Twitter, or other media, and simultaneously, various issues are on the agenda. Now, the news that just came up has taken a lot of interest in me and led me back to my old days. Sir, Prime Minister Haberturk said that he interfered with the subtitles of Mr. State Bahçeli, why do you spend it? Let me ask you guys, are we surprised?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0353par0432	We're not surprised.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0352par0433	We're not surprised, we're not surprised. What are we just surprised at? We were surprised how he got out, but we haven't been surprised since December 17th. Let me tell you, we've heard before that the first page of a newspaper of the same broadcast group has been replaced by the Prime Minister's intervention at three in the morning. This one's probably gonna drop soon, too. We also heard another major broadcast group, a vice president of our party, live on the air, on the telephones, on telephones, from the editor-in-chief to the reporter who interviewed, with the headphones, say, "Stop, stop." This one will fall soon, it will probably fall. Now, when I heard all of this -- I'm an ex-journalist -- my profession and the past days have come to my mind. Now, there's always censorship in the press, we never deny it, and there's pressure. Anyway, if there's no pressure or interference in your paper from power, you're not doing your job, you're not already doing yours. It happens, it happens all the time. I started the job in the Autonomous era. Things weren't so easy during the autonomous period, especially when there was a lot of pressure on the economic press, but we stood up for it all the time. Oh, we, uh, somehow got that news into the papers, but that news today, let alone get in, it's tied directly from the boss, and they're never coming in again. We've had our moments, no accidents, no trouble. Yeah, Ozal was getting some compensations, you know, making donations or spending them, I don't know what he was doing. Then came the period of iron, followed by the time of Tansu Chiller. We've been journalists in all of this, but we've never seen cases like this, and believe me, unfortunately, now that I mention it, some people have actually stood up. I'm going to briefly tell you about something that happened to me, and then I'm going to tell you another anecdote. I was working at Show TV, and I was doing an economic lobby on TV. I must have touched some of the capitals of the era that collaborated with power, which one day came to me from above. First -- if I give their names here now -- then the Show TV General Director of the period, then -- God rest his soul, because he told me so, dear Editor Ufuk Güldemir -- said: "Melda, you touched something like this about this, but they said to the Show TV General Director, "Hold this girl in your ear." They said, "Keep her in your ear." And the General Manager said, "Ya, he's a valuable employee of ours." Here, let's see, let's be careful. I stayed there and continued with my news. Ufuk Güldemir stood behind me. See, now, the horizon tells us what Guldemir said in his last interview before he died. They interviewed him for a long time in Haberturk, and he was telling me about February 28th, and he said: "On February 28th, Özkasnak Pasha - General Secretary Ozkasnak - sent us those motherfuckers, so it came to me, not directly, but as Chief Editors of Ozkasnak Pasha, and he expected us to publish it. I didn't publish it. Of course, Ozkasnak tried to make me pay for it, and for that, Cem Uzan made initiatives in front of him -- I'm talking about the Cem Uzan. And Cem Uzan stood behind me. Friends, now the Prime Minister has the bosses and executives of all publishing organizations today that the Pashas of February 28 were unable to get Cem Uzan and Ufuk Güldemir. Looking back, we can see, perhaps, how respectable the bosses and journalists were to this day, and how even the pashas of that era retreated to the power of this era. I owe it to you to share it with you tonight. I don't know how much longer you'll live with this shame. I'm deeply sorry for my profession. I'll leave the comment to them. We've got some valuable journalist friends amongst you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0354par0443	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the terms of the 524-thirteenth amendment of the law shall be changed in the form of 7/7/2018 (7/7/2016). Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0355par0450	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0354par0451	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0356par0452	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0354par0453	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0357par0455	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 75. I salute you all. Dear friends, of course, when we're called the suspension -- my first thought -- we think of the famous Abdulhamite era censorship. Indeed, there were various symbolic depictions of his sin at that time, one of which was censorship, and the other was spying. So there's something very similar. When Mr. Prime Minister urged you to report the neighbors, it was a spyry, an advocacy. What's now noticed is that Abdulhamit himself wasn't doing the censorship at the time, there were censors, and now we see that the Prime Minister himself is doing the censorship. It's a disaster. It's a disaster. We've really had a hard time saying, no matter what words we find, without breaking them. I claim, my friends, that some words will be banned tomorrow, especially after we discuss this Internet access. During the Abdulhamit period, certain words were also forbidden, for example, to say "burun" because the nose refers to Abdulhamit's nose, which means that today the air is cloudy. You called me "doctruck." Cases are being filed, sentences are being issued. Just as the word "burun" is banned, believe me, tomorrow, in a month or two, you will ban the word "kutsu" for example. Also, the pool will be banned. Now, in the last few days, there's been a pool. When you say pool, you will come to mind a variety of things, and you will be forbidden to call it salt. It's forbidden, it's forbidden; there's no end to this censorship. There's a rule in physics that if it gets stuck, it explodes. You guys are gonna blow up the country. Really, with this understanding of governance, with this pleasure and despotism, you're leading Turkey into an internal turmoil, you're going to blow up Turkey. So...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0358par0460	I hope the AKP blows up!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0359par0461	In the chest... in the chest... in the chest... it will explode.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0360par0462	We'll see if it explodes or not.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0361par0463	Now, the Prime Minister is applying censorship. We criticize, we accuse, but what should we say to those who submit to this censorship, dear friends?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0360par0464	We know who's been drinking their foundation, and we'll explain them.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0361par0465	Are these coordinators, these media bosses, the media executives, the ones they charge? They get money off the books that they don't deserve, and we know that. Besides, they serve in the form of people who bow down like slaves, who have lost their dignity, and unfortunately, we're facing a terrible situation. Therefore, in this bag bill -- despite our desire -- we add our nights to our day, prepare our talks, prepare our motions, we have sweats, we have eyes, we give away opposition, and we would like to discuss them in these commissions, in these General Assemblys, and we would like to review them, but unfortunately these developments prevent us from doing so. Now, this 75th article, dear friends, is a item that has been extended for the third time, the third time, the fourth time extension. Official buildings owned by public institutions and organisations, social and cultural infrastructure, and any structures built by real and legal people and open to hope would be accessible to the disabled by 1 July 2012. Again, municipalities would put public transportation in a position where disabled people could access it. This date was extended to 2013, and is now extended to July 7, 2018 in the past with a bag of bills. So, once again, the disabled are victimized by this extension. It's been taking a long time to get to the bottom of this. So I'd like to say that we're also against this extension. With these thoughts, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0362par0469	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 76, which I make to read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the letter of the law, which is part of Article 76 of the 524 rows that are in place. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 76th of the Common Legislature. On the condition that we do not fly to the purpose of the article, we would like to change the expression to........... without flying at all. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Musa Pine Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0363par0486	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0362par0487	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0364par0488	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0362par0489	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0365par0491	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to speak in favour of the motion that we have submitted on Article 76 of Bill 524. Now, an arrangement for civilian aviation is being added to a clause here. This is Law 5431, which was issued in 2005, and then in 2011, a amendment was made to the rule of law, and now it's being added again, and it's being defined as a mission. Now we're so used to it that we can no longer deny that the laws have been changed over and over again, brought a clause in the morning, and replaced the next day with the amendments or the motions. I mean, I don't think you guys are paying any attention either. I'm thinking what's in this bag bill, what are the issues being arranged, probably 90 percent of the lawmakers here don't know, except for the members of the group. Doesn't that hurt you? That's what I'm really asking. We're here to do legislature, to solve the problems of this country, but you don't even know what the laws here are, what the issues are, you don't feel the need to know. I really regret this as a congressman, and I hope you'll remember your responsibilities one day. Now, I believe that the Prime Minister gave a statement at the airport before he went to Germany that there would be arrangements for long detention, that special authorities and terror courts would be removed, and that prosecutors would then have some explanation for the conditions in which they could search. When I see this, I've actually observed that this new package of judgment that you want to do now is being removed in a way that will actually give birth to a mountain mouse, which you want to add to the package of democratisation, to the package you call democratization. Now, the Prime Minister says, first of all, "Sir, we're going to reduce long imprisonment to five years. The Constitutional Court has already said no ten years of imprisonment and cancelled it. Five years of imprisonment is already present, but unfortunately the judges, the judges, who were taken during your time, and the judges who were brought to special jurisdictional courts in your time, are now called parallel judgments, you call them organizations, you call them gangs, don't apply these laws, dear friends, whatever you do. Now, let's say you reduced it to five years. In the Ergenekon case, and in some cases, five years of imprisonment is spreading a perception that people will be released, but it doesn't really exist. His lawyers made it very clear that, as we now know, the detention period, which continued until the Supreme Court's approval, until the decision of the 160 Supreme Court members that you have appointed, has invented a concept called the Supreme Court of Appeals, which, when it is decided, has been held prisoner by the local court, and since he has been arrested by the judge, the detention period is not considered in any way, as if there had been a final decision. Then even if you call the maximum length of detention five years, you can't end the victims of the people there, even though the Ergenekon trial has already been decided, even though it hasn't yet been approved from the Supreme Court. Fatih Hilmioğlu, Tuncay Özkan, Ergün Poyraz, East Perincek, it is not possible for these prisoners to be released because of the 160 judges you placed in the Supreme Court, as if there was a different arrangement. Now, no matter how many times you do this, you'll never be able to fix it. You've made the judgment your own, but you've seen that it's not up to you. When you turned your attention towards yourself, it occurred to you that these were gangs, because they were parallel structures, but you ignored the judges, the judges you appointed, the lives of people, the freedoms of people, the interference in people's lives; that they weren't sent to experts, that their expert reports were wrong, that they were false. There was no parallel structure at the time, but now you're talking about parallel structure when it looks at you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] These arrangements will not solve any of the current problems as long as those judges are there. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0366par0504	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the letter of the law, which is part of Article 76 of the 524 rows that are in place. Münir Kutluata (Sakaria) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0367par0511	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0366par0512	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0368par0513	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0366par0514	Mr. Kutluata, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0369par0516	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the High Council. I have received a pledge on the basis of Article 76 of Bill 524. Dear lawmakers, we don't spend a week in advance, so that there won't be an incident that will shake Turkey up. We were saying, well, now it's down to roughly hours. Every hour, there are so many events that for each of them, the world will move from place to place, power will change, and the country will be saved from getting worse, but whatever happened in Turkey, what was done, can't be avoided. From the beginning, I've been trying to point out why by constantly expressing a matter that I've detected. Dear lawmakers, the first step this government has taken since the Justice and Development Party came to power in Turkey is that everyone talks about the age of communication, although they stress it, the nation has cut down their communication opportunities. People who have not been aware of the events since then because their communication opportunities have been cut off, are now witnessing a rash of events, as if they had just happened, and the country is very deeply shaken. Look at the position that appeared several hours apart today. Our group's deputy leader explained a very serious event: Mr. Prime Minister calls to Haberturk's channel, and he doesn't say, "Mr. The person says, "I understand, sir, we're doing what we need to do right now." You keep saying that, but you still give it. It's an intervention. It can be evaluated from every angle. There is also talk here today about a pool for another television channel and another newspaper, which has been created by recallers of $630m in illegal money. Dear lawmakers, if the stolen money is $630 million, how much is it really worth? When you think about these numbers, what measures have been taken on the interest that the Central Bank raised after receiving the loan, and what illegal money has added up to 11 per cent in one day? All this going shows is that in Turkey, power -- I regret to say -- has lost its chance to fall to the opposition. There's no way I intend to hurt you. There's no way I'm going to hurt you. On the contrary, if power can't be maintained, if it can't be prevented, I think people should at least give warnings about themselves in the kind of way that they're going to walk around with their heads held high tomorrow. Look, my friends, the Prime Minister himself has declared the mortgage he has put on the Supreme Assembly, saying, "We are the way it works, we are the living." On the other hand, we all know that even though the legal amendment to the judiciary's commitment to power and the Prime Minister has been halted, it is actually being carried out. Today's examples show that the press, which is considered the fourth force, is also subject to the monopoly and deception of power. Clearly, there will be no healthy development behind this departure. I make it very clear that instead of underestimating the opposition, I sincerely hope that the days will not come when this power will see that it is a great blessing to be able to fall to the opposition, but cannot fall to the opposition. I would also like to warn you that the Justice and Development Party's esteemed group has taken on a great deal of responsibility. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0370par0524	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 77, which I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the law, which is in Article 77 of the 524 rows, shall be changed in the form of the terms of the decree. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu T. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 77 of the current bill. We request that the clause be removed from the text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Muharrem İlk Mehmet Ali Sesam Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0371par0541	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0370par0542	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0372par0543	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0370par0544	Mr. Light, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0373par0546	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Yesterday, after the painful incident in Eskişehir, we went to the trial of Ali İsmail Korkmaz, who was sent to Kayseri for security reasons in Eskişehir. Of course, the most important cases were seen there because Eskişehir was safe, but the case was removed from Eskişehir, and was sent to Kayseri. The location of the case is very important. When you see that hall, you can see how much you care about people's lives, how much you respect people's lives. The old building, it's empty, it's empty, it's empty, but it's new, it's specially prepared for this case, no microphones, no television, it's not seen properly, it's a narrow hall, and even though so many people are expected to come, unfortunately, there's been a trial in such an environment. Of course, there were a lot of difficulties going in when the trial was being held, but the police there are friends, and we thank the prosecutors and fellow judges because they took it in a mature manner. Of course, what was important there was that someone had to see and ache about what she was living there, because in six months she was at least ten years old, her hair turned white, and she was sitting there, and the police cut her way out, and we didn't do anything to them. They've built a wall of flesh around him when he's being sued, and those villains are protected as if something was going to be done, and -- sometimes we see the same thing as a very good tactic -- there's no crime in us doing nothing, there's no crime in us. When I was on the run, he told me a little something, so I went and said, "Lan, go home." I said, "Go home." There's kicking, hitting with that stick, hitting with that baton, all of it, but there's going to be a conscience, and there's going to be a pain. Sure, what's important here? One is that you elect the hero governor of Eskişehir, governor of the year, and the day before yesterday or the day before, you give the governor of the year's award by your own hand, and like the governor of Adana, those who persecute the citizens are rewarded in this way. After that...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0374par0553	They're epic, epic!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0373par0554	Yeah, it's exactly what the epic authors write. And the cops who wrote these epic papers -- they say: "We've taken steps." And they say, "We've come from the southeast, we've come from Batman, we know where to kill, we know where to hit." I mean, they're supposed to roll over there. Sir, we didn't hit him in the places where he was going to be killed, we took our foot away, we let him touch his foot, so we told him to get up. He falls in his own hand, and I know exactly where to hit him. And the pain there, nothing can stop him. And there's so much pressure on the civilians there that one of them came out with a conscience, told the truth, the others -- those who shot, those civilians -- the conspiracy that was taken there was memorized by all the cops. And nothing's being taken care of, even though it's clearly seen in the footage. Of course, here, especially when we look at what the governor of Eskişehir said when he was in the press at the time, my son Ismail, you're still not comfortable, you're mean and you're a bastard, and he says, "We're used to the word of the media right now." One of the governor's words: they beat each other up and blame the police. And you still keep this governor in his place, you protect this governor, you select the governor of the year. If you have any conscience, take those records, and see what that Ali Ismail Korkmaz's mother suffered. As you cry to the Esma, these are my children. Say, "When you grieve for your other children, see these as you carry your children in private." It's not always about getting up here and attacking someone when they say something, and challenging them. If you're talking about conscience, see the conscience there. What did his mother say -- a friend here said -- I wish he had been shot with a bullet. This person suffered for thirty-eight days. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0375par0561	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the decree in the 77th Article of the proposed Law shall be changed in the form of the conflict. Münir Kutluata (Sakaria) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0376par0568	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0375par0569	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0377par0570	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0375par0571	Mr. Kutluata, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0378par0573	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you again. Dear MPs, I've already stated that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is a large area of duty and responsibility. However, our ministry's mandate is expanding rather than shrinking day after day, as the government's policies are not in the direction of progress in Turkey, but in the direction of social tissue decay. I'd just like to give you an example of hundreds of examples: Article 2 of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy's Law on Organizations and Jobs lists the duties of this Ministry, (c) in order to ensure the healthy development of children by protecting them from all kinds of neglect and abuse. Despite this ministry's mandate, a person who has the responsibility of the Ministry of National Education has made a generation of age disabled and troubled by forcing about 500,000 young young young people 5 years old to start elementary school in Turkey. The duties of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy are to prevent them, but the government is responsible for this course of action, and the concerned Minister is a member of the government. As I've already stated, if the Ministry's ability to repair is 1, the government's ability to disrupt and destroy, put in power. So, when we look at it from this point of view, Turkey's Ministry of Family and Social Policy's mandates and responsibilities are exponentially expanding every day, and the Ministry is overwhelmed by this responsibility. There are many factors in Turkey's decomposition and decomposition of social tissue and structure, one of the most important of which is poverty in Turkey. Poverty has gone so far, so far, so far that the government has been able to assess its assessment of Turkey, unfortunately, with a $1 per day spent per capita in very poor and helpless countries that cannot be used for Turkey, under pressure of population. The ruling says that we have reset the number of people living on a dollar a day in Turkey, especially the minister in charge of the economy, and that such a measure can be given to Turkey, it is a disgrace that it can be used. On the world scale, these figures are a measure used for countries that are very poor, whose income level is still around $300 to $400 per person, but on the other hand, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has its own website and its own testimony that the number of families who have to live on a third of the minimum wage in Turkey -- $282 per third of the minimum wage -- is 2-2.5 million -- has to live on income below $282 lira. The number of these 2.5 million families is 10 million and 400. These are poor families, not nuclear families, not four, not five. If you divide the 282 by 5 or 6 people, where's a dollar a day? But if you look at the numbers in Turkey that have gone from production to ranta, which have gone into corruption, there are terrible numbers. If you're willing to help one million people out of one dollar a day, you're going to raise over $1 million in revenue. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] However, this is how the numbers are used in Turkey, and the unfairly distributed gains -- as I just said in my speech -- are distributed to other areas. That's the way it is. I give you my compliments. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit08spe0379par0581	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger. I'll be back very quickly.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0379par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the ninth session of the 56th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 524. Commission? Here. Government? Here. There are two motions on Article 78: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the law in Article 78 of the 524 rows of the law shall be changed in the form of the terms taken in the terms referred to in the conflict. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Münir Kutluata Kemalettin Yilmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 78 of the current bill. We demand and demand that the clause be removed from the bill. Süleyman Çelebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Melda Onur Ramis Topal Muharrem Ik Mehmet Ali Sesam Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0380par0019	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0379par0020	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0381par0021	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0379par0022	I'm reading the reason: Because it needs to be represented with more members. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the law in Article 78 of the 524 rows of the law shall be changed in the form of the terms taken in the terms referred to in the conflict. Kemalettin Yilmaz (Afyonkarahisar) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0382par0031	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0379par0032	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0383par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0379par0034	Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0384par0036	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 78th Amendment of the underlying Law Bill 524. I salute your high council. The amendment to this clause is making changes to the Social Security Foundation's organization structure, and we're asked to allow a new presidential staff to be appointed as head of an additional agency for the Office of Strategy Development. In our country, the slowness of the social security system, the inability of the Social Security Agency, has become a witness, a person. Is an S.G.K., with a structure that has taken months of retirement in our country, despite the fact that the current pensions are still suffering from these information technology systems -- especially pensioners -- going to provide a quality, healthy service at the speed of light with these staffs? Again, in our country, hundreds of thousands of people's pensions, primes, and these people's expectations, as if they were to be kept silent, as if they were going to reach the age of space, without proper data, without reporting. While thousands of our citizens -- especially our cancer patients -- can't find their medicine -- there's no medicine in the Turkish Pharmaceutical Union while waiting in line. While they're being sent back by the pharmacy, so they can't be treated, we're wondering if they're going to make the Social Security Agency the world's best quality institution. Again, I wonder if the SEC, which the government claims to have revolutionised in health and social security, has solved the problems of patients with multi-green cards, who are hospitalized to get in line with the GSS patients' chain of transport. In particular, the SEC is the head of the most troubled institutions. Because it's an undeniable fact, but it's all being made to look like a rose. When our country's social security system puts an alarm on them, I think they should have done their part, specifically and first, with the current staff. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid the Social Security Agency has a charisma. Over the years, the institution that has invested billions of dollars in education, information processing, personnel is still a disaster. The changes made, and the gathering of all social security institutions under one roof, have made it impossible, not only to clear up the complexity. There's only one social security agency in our country. Still, however, the SSC, the pensioner's Ark, the BUG-KURL, the YSS divisions continue, and the rights of all combined institutions still have serious different rights, different challenges, and different problems. After the merger, it's almost as if torturing people in secret, how much more money can we get out of their pockets, a Social Security institution that aims to achieve its purpose. People have a lot of problems when they retire, they're trying for days, our citizens are barely retiring, but unfortunately, it doesn't end. The gaps between pensioners' salaries remain. With legal regulations under the name "Institution" the problem has not been solved. Dear lawmakers, meanwhile, retired or working NGOs have been used to private hospitals, and now they're being held up by thousands of different kinds of pencils, such as differences, treatment differences, surgical differences, room differences. With no social security, the multi-green card holders, the local health insurance, unfortunately, can't be examined at any hospital they want. They're being sentenced to hospital visits with their patients to receive transfers, including those with severe illness. You who have allowed hundreds of thousands of refugees to be treated for free in the most extensive hospitals and have done so, unfortunately, on the backs of poor citizens, first find a solution to the problems of our own citizens, and then, of course, we can help every human being throughout the world. Let's say the treatment is over, the citizen will take medications, not many medicines, they're being passed on by drugs under the name "Muadil. " The undiscovered are being directed to the Turkish Pharmaceutical Union. Each prescription receives more examination differences than drug money, prescription differences. It's not a social security system, it's a social security system. In these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0385par0048	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 79, I'll read it and process it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 524th amendment of the law in Article 79 shall be changed into "professive." Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Münir Kutluata Kemalettin Yilmaz Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0386par0059	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0385par0060	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0387par0061	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0385par0062	Please don't give me the... It is intended to clarify the expression mentioned in the article. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two proposals in Article 80. I'll have them read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 80 of the current bill of law. For less than three years, we offer and propose that the expression in the article be changed to less than four years. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Ramazan Kerim Özkan Hasan Ören Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Aytuğ Thrower Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 80 of the current bill 524 from the draft text. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0388par0085	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0385par0086	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0389par0087	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0385par0088	Mr. Halaçoglu, do you have the...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0390par0089	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0385par0090	I'm reading the reason: It is recommended that the substance be removed from the draft text, as it will cause the loss of the meaning of expertise and the breakdown of the "career profession" system. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 80 of the current bill of law. For less than three years, we offer and propose that the expression in the article be changed to less than four years. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0391par0099	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0385par0100	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0392par0101	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0385par0102	Mr. Horseman, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0393par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, like family and social policies, I have made a promise that no one will object and that the soup number 524, which you try to cover up in words that sound good, is based on the 80th article of the law. I salute all other lawmakers who have brought the amendment he wants to the General Assembly, without concealing it, without concealing it, and who are standing behind it, speaking in the commissions, in the votes, in the General Assembly, who have not acted any further. Dear friends, what do you bring with this substance, the 80th article? You're bringing in a typical AKP classic. I'm changing the 30th amendment to Social Security Act 5502, so you're saying that in the presidency, you've made a social security expert out of the head of the office, the head of the office, or the mayor of the country. Would that suit you? It'll fit. Why are you doing this? It's unclear. What's the point? It's unclear. What need did it come from? It's unclear. Why can't you tell? Because you didn't write it down for a reason, you didn't state it for a general reason or a material reason, there's no explanation. You're saying that if a vice-principal assistant director was there for three years, I gave him a staff of social security professionals from the heli. Not enough, the county manager... Yeah, well, if a county manager who served you all these years did that for three years, you're saying he's an expert on you, and you're appointing an expert. You put your hands up, you put them up in a minute, and you make them all experts. Well, since you don't have any explanations, we need to think, why would you do something like that? The first possibility is that you now have seen the AKP go upside down. You've already secured them so that some incompetent bureaucrats you've appointed can't be moved, so you haven't left their services unrequited. So, basically, what does it take to win a social security professional staff based on the law? One, you need a vocational exam. Two: Foreign language examination required. Three: These people should prepare fast and then be qualified for the exam. Does it mean anything to you? No. Three years will serve you, that's enough for you. Well, you're going to say that you AKP people won't say it, but maybe my friends in the opposition will say it won't, but there's worse. Let me remind you, again, in this House, you raised your blessed fingers and even made a medical professor. Remember, when the jet professors spent their time in their offices or private hospitals, you pretended to spend it in college, academic training units, and you raised your hands for it. Well, after you make a man a professor by raising a finger, well, you shouldn't be surprised to make some of the executives a social security expert, but remember that the titles that require competence, knowledge, merit are not legitimate, even if they find life with your hands, it's not moral, because someone works, and if they have an uncle, they win. Now, that was the first possibility. What's the second possibility? And the second possibility is that you're handing out staff like that, and you're giving someone a silent share? So, if you don't, your group vice president will be out in a minute, and he'll say, "No, we don't give silence." You shut up, shut up. We don't call you an expert. You say, we applaud you from where we sit, but you know that's not the case. And you, with all these accusations, you don't jump any more, you don't object at all, because after what happened, you know that there's a good chance that any of this is real. Believe me, I wouldn't want to be in your shoes. God help you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0394par0112	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0395par0113	May God help you too, Hajji.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0394par0114	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 81: I'll have them read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 81st of the current bill of law. The term "the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the Ministry of Health are entitled to determine the opinion of the Ministry of Health and Social Policy" shall be changed to "the opinion of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the Ministry of Health." Ramazan Kerim Özkan Haydar Akar Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Hasan Ören Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the following sentence be added at the end of Article 81 of the current bill 524. Mustafa Kalaycı Özcan Yeniçeri Münir Kutluata According to Law No. 3713, the monthly-connected property of Article 56 of Law 5434 or Article 2 of Law 2 (c) of Article 2330 (f) shall be met with no period of time and no price constraints for any orthesis/prothesis/prothesis and other goods, even if it is not covered under Law 3713, even if it is not covered under the Law number 3713," he added. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0396par0131	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0394par0132	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0397par0133	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0394par0134	Mr. Akçay, are you going to speak? Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0398par0136	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 81. I salute you all. With this Article 81, the opinion of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is expected to be adopted in terms of the quantity of ordnance, prosthetics and other healing tools, the standard, the provision, the implementation of the provisions, the duration of the use, and the duration of the guarantee period of care, repair and renovation. This arrangement is fundamentally positive, but of course, some of its shortcomings and practical errors are associated with it. It's important to get the opinion of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, but it's not enough, and there's the implementation of it. Now, according to Article 7310 of the Law on Anti-Terrorism Law No. 3713, according to Article 3713, it is still not in accordance with Act 3713, but the law says that any orte/prothesis/prothesis and other healing tools that they need with the health board report of the law and the healthcare board report that they use or use against all kinds of drugs and other instruments are not restricted without any restrictions. This is also against the hierarchy of rules. It must be done according to the purpose and goal of the law. The motion that we're proposing is that this matter, which should be legally given, will not be limited by the notification, so the limitation is lifted. In this bag of legislation, the arrangements for martyr families, veterans and invalids have been positive, but these expectations are not yet met, including the arrangements we've all made together in the past and previous years, meaning that the martyrs and martyrs of war continue to have expectations of widows and orphans and orphans and veterans. Again, since we've come to the end of the period of time in which this Ministry of Family and Social Policy has entered the field, I simply want to rephrase some of the problems and expectations of our fallen parents and veterans. All children of our martyrs must be given employment. From now on, this is an arrangement that we must make in future legal arrangements. Those of our maul veterans should be granted a pension if they fill the number of bonus days for 3,600 days. The loans for social security benefits from our veterans before October 1st 2008 must be erased and the social security benefits they pay for their previous work periods must also be returned. The orientation, prosthetics, equipment, and medical materials used by harp and duty disability must be met without any restrictions. All of our veterans in Korea and Cyprus must be paid in full the month of honor. This is also a very important problem. Those awarded the State Medal of Honor should also be bound by a pension of honor. Martyrs and veterans should be assigned quotas at the universities of the foundation, and those who are considered veterans and military liability should also be given a vehicle free of charge provided by the Social Security Agency to use free travel cards provided they don't ask for a medical report, under 1,600 cc's and five years' notice. With these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0399par0148	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 81st of the current bill of law. The term "the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the Ministry of Health are entitled to determine the opinion of the Ministry of Health and Social Policy" shall be changed to "the opinion of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the Ministry of Health." Ramadan Kerim Özkan (Burdur) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0400par0155	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0399par0156	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0401par0157	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0399par0158	Mr. Horseman, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0402par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a commitment to the motion that we made regarding Article 81 of the Law enforcement Act 524, which has upset the techniques of lawmaking and pushed the limits of our legal experts. And I salute the lawmakers who never lie about a vital thing like health and cheat the public. You are changing the 63rd article of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance. I was glad, I suppose, that the AKP would clean up one of its shames with the 63rd article. Let me remind you what your shame was about: you put a clause called health care that would be funded by the SGK institution -- I mean, by the SGK institution. So, what treatments the SGK will pay for, what diagnostic methods the SGK will pay for, the institution will decide, according to this law that you agreed to by raising your fingers. So, the SGC would consider itself a doctor and decide what I would pay? On what? It's on its own. Watch out, you've made a pun here by doing an AKP classic again. What does the SGK pay for? What is it that you really want to do? What does the SGK not pay for? But if the SGK doesn't pay for something, it would be shameful for the public to fall into a negative position. You had to deceive the people, and by lying to the people again, you determined what the SGK would pay. I mean, what in God's name is non-payable health care? You're going to pay a lifetime bonus, you're going to get health care, and the SGK is going to say, "Wait a minute, I'm not paying for this." With what understanding, social government? No, in the sense of a fascist state, you decided which treatment, which diagnostic method, the SGK, or the state, would not pay. And let's put it aside now that you've earned all of our sympathy, like the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and you've shared in this shame a special ministry that appeals to all of our feelings, and you said, "Let the Ministry of Health and Family and Social Policy decide as well." So the Ministry of Family and Social Policy will say, "pay this, pay this, don't pay that." Look, your Prime Minister ordered them in Germany today, and they gave examples. Let us question the past; where were our premiums paid to the USSR? I'll tell you from here, everyone was sure it wasn't going into anyone's pockets. Now the people ask you, where do the premiums we pay to the SGK go? He's clearly asking: do we suspect that the SABAH is going to contribute to the pool that the great boss set up to buy the ATV?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0403par0164	He's going to the pool, to the pool!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0402par0165	Or is there a money transfer being made to instruct Haberturk? He asks, citizen, come in and answer. No, he's not going there. Tell him where he's going, tell him where he's going. Or the public asks, do our SEC bonuses or return as lead to young people who see thieves early, who say there are thieves? Even worse, is Ali Ismail coming back as the stick that killed Korkmaz? People ask: "Why is health care out of the picture when we pay so many premiums? We pay decent premiums, and the AKP government has to give us proper health care. I pay my premiums, but your minister goes out and sells my prescription information. He says, "God bless your eyes." I pay my premium, and every time I go to the doctor, you get my contribution at 11 points, and I don't give you my rights. Get out of here and tell us about the premiums I paid to the SGK, says the citizen. I think one of you should go out and tell me what's going on, let me know, let me know, let the citizen know, but no one has that face.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0404par0167	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. As they know, the proposed bill or proposal is the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Interior Charter, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but wants to change a clause that is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be held as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has attended. According to Article 91 of the Civil Code, "Interview of a new clause will be open on the motions which the commission has already attended, and there may be a number of motions laid out in this article." Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the commission. If the commission joins in the motion, mostly with 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the introduction of the following clause after Article 81 of the Court of Law and Law shall be made to change the provisions of the State of the Family and Social Policy Ministry in 524 rows, and the evaluation of the following articles. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Hasan Ören Hülya Güven Ali Serindağ Haluk Ahmet Şimş Birgül Ayman Güler " THE joke of Article 80 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510 (a) dated 82/5/2006 has been changed to "the same benefits to support the home care of the disabled in need of care, " except the third subcommittee of payment. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0405par0181	Ladies and gentlemen of the Plan and Budget Commission, we await the commissions.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0406par0182	If all the MPs show up, it's not just the majority.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0405par0183	Mr. President, we don't have a single majority.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0407par0184	Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the introduction of the following clause after Article 81 of the Court of Law and Law shall be made to change the provisions of the State of the Family and Social Policy Ministry in 524 rows, and the evaluation of the following articles. Hülya Güven Haydar Akar Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Ramazan Kerim Özkan Hasan Ören Dilek Akagün Yilmaz "MEDDE 82-31/5/2006 added additional material to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510. "EK MADDE 8- 24/5/1983, under Article 2828, and under Article 7 of the Social Services Act 2828, those who receive social assistance to support the care of disabled persons in their home care are covered by Article 4 (a) which, according to the Law, does not have a mandatory insurance study in terms of the long-term insurance arm. The disabled 24/5/1983 article 2828 of the Social Services Law, which requires care, states that the person who receives child support for home care is being paid with a notice of entry to work at least 15 days before the start of the day. However, according to this clause, the person who received social support to support home care from the disabled who later needed care for the establishment of the insurance relationship is reported as insured by the disabled who needed care from the same period as following the demand date. According to this Law, a long-term insurance arm study is required to be insured, but according to the provisions of this clause, those who seek to be insured and then started working in terms of their long-term insurance arms, while those who have not demanded the end of the insurance relationship according to this clause are reported by the disabled in need of care, and the insurance premiums that have been paid for those in this situation are returned. According to this article, income or monthly incomes which are tied to widows, orphans or disabled cannot be cut off." Mr. Commission, do you generally agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0408par0197	Dear members of the Plan and Budget Commission, please report to the Commission's ranks.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0407par0198	Now that it's clear, there's no single majority.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0408par0199	There are only so many of us that we can't participate.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0407par0200	Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. There are two motions in Article 82, which I shall have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Other than the tax on the 82nd article of the law bill, which is in 524 rows. The entire 5 years to come before their declarations, we propose and propose that they be added in the following years. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to Article 524 of Law Bill 82, Article 13/6/2006 and Article 5/A of Institutions Tax Act 5520 will be added to this Law after Article 5/B. 50% of the profits and properties obtained from discoveries reported by the ministry and TÜBITAK for reducing external dependency are all exclusible from institutional tax. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Aghadın Müslim Sarı Musa Pine İzzet Cetin Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0409par0216	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0407par0217	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0410par0218	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0407par0219	Mr. Aslanoglu, are you going to speak?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0411par0220	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0407par0221	Read the reason: In 2014, the program was.2.2.2.2. 10. One of the measures envisioned in the chapter Science, Technology and Innovation is the support and activation of research programmes and projects for developing domestic products and technologies in sectors where external dependency is high. In this framework, all gains and assets obtained from innovations reported by relevant ministries and TÜBITAK to reduce external dependency have been envisioned as an advantage for investors in international competitive areas, exclusion from corporate taxes. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Other than the tax on the 82nd article of the law bill, which is in 524 rows. The entire 5 years to come before their declarations, we propose and propose that they be added in the following years. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0412par0231	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0407par0232	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0413par0233	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0407par0234	Read the reason, please. The first five years of research, development and innovation in Turkey are intended to exclude all profits from the development and software activities. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 83, I have them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 524 Bill of Numbers 524 shall be replaced in the form of a maximum 7 to 10 years, in the second joke of Article 83, which stipulates to edit the first joke of Article 10 of Law 5520. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Abdullah Levent Tünzel Altan Tan Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 83 of the current law bill 524, we propose and propose that "Revelation is applied to each disabled employee for five years and that the declaration be removed from the article text. Mustafa Kalaycı Özcan Yeniçeri Erkan Akçay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that Article 83 of Law Bill 524 be changed in the following manner. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Musa Pine İzzet Cetin Farid Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ayayalın Müslim Sarı The first joke of Article 10 of Article 83 of Law 5520 added the bell below. "h) 100 per cent of the annual gross payment paid by other persons and institutions, including 1/7/2005, and 50 per cent of the annual gross unemployment reduction (Indulgement, for every disabled employee, for every disabled employee, which is hard to get into the labour market, is applied for five years at a time, and for each disabled employee, the minimum amount of the annual salary is not 150 per cent.). The Council of Ministers is in charge of the Finance Ministry by taking the opinion of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the Ministry of Labour and Social Security to determine the procedures and foundations related to the implementation of the Bendin," he said. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0414par0261	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0407par0262	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0415par0263	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0416par0264	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0407par0265	The reason, please. Article 61 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey "should be protected privately in terms of social security:" tasked the State with taking measures to ensure the protection of the disabled and their attitude towards community life. This task is given to all disabled people, regardless of the distinction. However, by considering the relative difficulty in finding employment in Article 83 of the Legislature, the other disabled have been neglected, while only mental or mental disability is considered. A 50% discount rate is envisioned for other disabled persons whose employment is difficult according to the proposal and sound people. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 83 of the current law bill 524, we propose and propose that "Revelation is applied to each disabled employee for five years and that the declaration be removed from the article text. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0417par0274	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0407par0275	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0418par0276	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0407par0277	Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0419par0278	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, when we look back on the past, the Ottoman state of our recent history, in particular, is identified by the names of the people we today refer to as "lamâ (lamâ)" and "mallul", each of the districts of the districts of 1,400, each of the people who live there have been identified by the name of one single father. So those who are blind have been identified by their father's names, those who are disabled are also identified by their father's names, and it's interesting that when we divide the exemptions by percentages today, it doesn't make any sense, and they're completely exempt from taxes. I mean, we're not even in the 1450s right now. So at that time, imagine that people who are disabled are completely exempted from taxes, and it's called the same thing as leaving one fifth of the budget: the poor people, the orphans, the orphans, the orphans, and the price of medicine. So it's a very important expression that reveals the social side of our government that ruled the world for six hundred and twenty-four years. Today in modern history, the Republic of Turkey has unfortunately never dreamed of reaching it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's not just these. At that time, the Ottoman State established special hospitals in an environment where lepers were exiled to the islands or where mental patients were isolated from the community. You must have gone to Edirne, just 2. Even in the Bayezid Ashland, you can see that mental patients are treated by the sound of water, by music and by the sound of birds. In fact, today, you see the events of modern medicine in the 1460s, in the 1480s, which is very important.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0420par0281	It's also in the Seljuk era.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0419par0282	It's also in the Seljuk period, but I said it's a close date. I said it's our close history, because we're putting it out there before we go too far. So think of an environment where we -- I think we haven't even been able to set up the roads yet -- where the disabled can't get up to that place in the Republic of Turkey today, but it's a state that provided it five hundred years ago -- that's the real state. The real state is the state that knows what it's doing, the real state is the state that serves society, but look, we've been elected MPs. Who chose us? He chose the Turkish nation, our nation, and in our Constitution, he wrote: "Every MP is a deputy of all Turkey after he has been elected, not only is he a MP of one city. So when we look at these empty desks -- no matter what the hours -- I don't think that every one of the lawmakers in these empty rows has the authority to represent that nation.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0421par0283	There's no one at the MHP either.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0419par0284	No, I'm saying it myself, not just for you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0422par0285	The working hours aren't physiological.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0419par0286	For everyone who is not in this House, I'm not just saying it for you, just the CHP or the mp... whoever there is... so if you're on a mission, if you're on a mission, if you've been offered a mission, you have to do it properly. So, if we're not doing this... look, every penny we get is for the right of the subject. No matter what anyone says, you can't argue otherwise.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0422par0287	The hours are not physiological.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0419par0288	What I'm saying is, then, who will have their qualifications and whose qualities? But the MPs have to pay attention to everything they talk about, and the PM has to pay attention to everything he talks about, because each one is normally a congressman. No one has the right to go out and put all of God's qualities on anyone, nor does a prime minister have the authority to hire and remove the speech of an opposition leader.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0423par0289	Who would say such a thing?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0419par0290	Friend, pull yourself together, I'm saying something, listen.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0423par0291	He needs to lose his mind...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0419par0292	If you're uploading a quality there, we need the right to criticize it, and you need to carry it.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0424par0293	Teacher, he fixed it. He fixed it.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0419par0294	If you are honest, carry this; he has done it wrong. Say, he has done it wrong. Show the magnitude of the expression.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0425par0296	Of course it's wrong. Of course it's wrong.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0419par0297	No, all the qualifications... you have the video. When I say all his qualities, it's creative.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0426par0299	The party spokesman made a statement about it. Why are you ignoring me?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0419par0300	Brother, you're wasting your time.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0427par0301	You have to lose your mind to say something like that.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0426par0302	The party spokesman spoke, made a statement. Isn't that enough? Why are you abusing me?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0419par0303	His explanation is...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0426par0304	Why are you abusing me?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0419par0305	Then... I'm not abusing.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0428par0306	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0419par0307	That's what the Prime Minister should have said.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0429par0308	Isn't the party spokesman's explanation enough?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0419par0309	What the hell are you doing? He should have said. Why didn't he say so?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0429par0310	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0430par0311	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0429par0312	The party spokesman made a statement, wasn't that enough?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0431par0313	Did the Prime Minister do it?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0430par0314	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 524 Bill of Numbers 524 shall be changed in the form of a maximum 7 to 10 years in the second joke of Article 83, which stipulates to edit the first joke of Article 10 of Law 5520. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0432par0320	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0430par0321	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0433par0322	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0430par0323	The reason... 12% of the population of Turkey is created by disabled citizens. Despite such a high number of disabled populations, none of the Republic's governments have stooped to their problems, which have reached the extent of human rights violations, through structural and conclusion-taking regulations. While the problems of our disabled citizens continue with all their inflammatoryness in the time we come in, this provision, which regulates the problems of citizens with mental and mental disability mentioned in the draft, and the participation of social and economic life along with other parts of society, is crucial. With change, it is intended to draw attention to the burning nature of this problem once again and to make their employment even more attractive. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, let's begin the talks of section four. Chapter 4 includes Articles 84 to 101. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Erdal Aksunger wants to speak on the fourth chapter. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0434par0333	Guys, where are you going? Hey, listen.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0435par0334	We just told you, they're leaving again because they're getting the rights.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0436par0335	You're talking about the same thing, what should I listen to?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0434par0336	What are you talking about? Who is it?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0437par0337	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0438par0338	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all at this hour of the night. Yeah, well, talking about it at this hour is one of the basic points of kidnapping this law. Now, as we explained in the Plan Budget Commission, this bag of articles that come about the Internet is actually the result of a trust issue between the state and the citizen. Today, there has been a serious trust problem in the country for the past ten years. The bottom line of the trust problem is what you do. When you go out on the street today, do you have an application for a citizen's information one way or another, whether he trusts the judiciary, trusts the law enforcement, trusts the law enforcement, trusts the living, or trusts the political institution? You're going to hear about these problems from the citizen on the street. Friends, you can't ban the Internet. The reason for this law to be brought into the bag within the law is in fact the events of the trip before December and the great December earthquake following it. Now, I want to talk about a few things: I want to make it very clear that TİB is being brought to a new MIT function with this law in this country. Look, my friends, friends in power come out and they tell me on TV, and I'm listening in some places, and hopefully they'll tell me, and I want them to answer these questions, and they said, "You're making the decision." They said that there are such legal regulations in Europe. I claim that there is no such arrangement in any of the institutions of Europe, in any country. Look, what are you trying to do with the law? You're assigning a staff to the TİB. You're probably going to experience this deployment through a shift from law enforcement, and you're going to stop it by creating an institution that puts itself in court in four hours, giving the TİB president the Attorney General's office, giving him the power of attorney, creating an institution that puts him in charge of the court. Guys, if you listen, I'll fill you in, and I'll tell you what you're doing. Of course, it doesn't make any sense at this time of night. Now, we had a bet, when we talked to friends in the Commission -- there was a commission report, actually, in the Listening Commission, and in the Internet Commission -- they said, "We wrote these in the Commission. We wrote them in the report. It's true, but we wrote them legally. We never said that there was no such thing. Who are you giving the authority to in four hours? Is he the attorney general, so the head of the TİB can decide that, so the court can decide that? If there is such a thing, remove it, and say, "Let us place 40 more prosecutors in Ankara, and let these prosecutors make the necessary decisions, and I am not a lawyer in the Law, but I am not a lawyer -- let them say with this change, they have to make this decision in four hours." Why would they bring a man from law enforcement and make the decision? Why? So, what's the secret of privacy? Isn't that the law that has to decide? Who's gonna decide that? When the Minister told me, he said, "I am removing my authority." I said, "It is not a matter of removing your authority." It's a matter of a country that's really committed to democracy, claiming to be, doing a job within the law. There's no such thing as doing anything about it here. Where do they get this staff or what I call law enforcement? They'll get it from MIT, where they'll bring it from. And they're also saying 75 reruns of contract personnel, where are you going to bring them? Yeah, what do you need all these men for? If there's a quick decision-making mechanism, bring in 40 other prosecutors to make those decisions in 24 hours. Why don't we do this? Well, look, no matter what you do, the Internet won't be blocked, but... well, I mean, I don't want to talk about it, technically, it's a lot of detail; friends who know the details know the details, there's no way to stop it. The law is such a law that it's written in theory, and it's practically impossible to apply it. He says: 'Remove content.' Where will it come from? If you put it in America, if there's a server, you make a law here, you tell the man there to remove the content. Who the hell are you gonna make me enforce whose law? What kind of logic is that? We've told you this a thousand times. Now, I said: "You're tagging with the state hand." He said, "What's going on?" Yeah, now, there's this whole traffic thing going on. Between one year and two years, wherever you go to the Internet and click on their traffic, hold this to companies that provide access to private companies. Why? Tomorrow's the day after tomorrow, if there's a problem with that, I'll be back. In fact, if he's involved in catalog crimes, he doesn't need to go to trial. Yeah, I don't understand that either. What's with all the catalog crime? Let me be very clear about Article 8 of the Article 8: As the state of the Republic of Turkey, sentence decisions regarding Article 8 of Article 5651 have been made on us and we have been punished. So, the European Union says lift it up. It says, "We're still not touching it, we're doing what the European Union says. We're calling it a ban." Look, in catalog crime, if you'd like to remind you what's in catalog crime: suicide driving, facilitating children's sexual abuse, drug or drug use, supply of health-related substances, lewdness, prostitution, gambling, and crimes against Ataturk. Okay, guys, these are catalog crime. Without bringing them to trial, we will prevent any violations of these matters. It's a catalog crime. So why isn't there a terror catalog crime? Why can't racism be catalog crime? Aren't they all in the penal code or not in criminal law? I do. Why is it a catalog crime? The only sensitive issue in the world is child abuse. It could be sexual, it could be obscene, it's the only one. Anyway, look, anywhere in the world, anywhere in the world, there's no agency that has access to the subject of a child from the Internet that can reduce the sensitivity here. Look everywhere. Well, isn't that catalog crime outside of crime? Well, isn't there a criminal law involved in this catalog crime? I do. So why is it put here? They can't explain it. We're not against any of this, we're not against any of this. 9/A says that the president of the TİB... is there because he is the chief prosecutor of the TİB, and the president of the TİB is making the decision. In this country, I mean, he's the president of the TİB in the mood of a man who sits at the top of the court. Man, there's a problem with apps in this country. We've seen all the problems in the wiretaps. I mean, we've seen this in the wiretaps committee, the decisions made by the judge in non-lawful wiretaps are about intelligence listening. The biggest problem in this country is that it's been exploited using government resources, there's no gang out there, there's no gang listening to people, there's no tagging them, there's no such thing. Tell me who's here. MIT's looking into it, Security Intelligence's looking into it, who's looking into it, what law enforcement unit? It's not true, it's all made up. They're not out looking for any gang change. Because most of all the violations in Turkey are because of abuse of people who have the power of state, the people who have the data in law enforcement, and because of this... now, of course, this word is a very, very rijitous word, but if the Jew is parallel, I'll tell you: whoever owns MIT, security intelligence is someone else's. How can the government have institutions like this? Yeah, the government has institutions like that, two institutions for other people. And also, we've always learned for years, we're people from the left tradition, I don't know about it, but there's this thing called the deep state, it's written about it, it's drawn, I don't know where it went, and I don't know that. And there's a deep government, and I don't know where he is. Because we've come to understand that those who deal with the deep state phenomenon, the ones who talk about it, are talking about the parallel state right now. But, you know, the difference between MIT and Security Intelligence is that we've seen this before: you can trust the guys in MIT. Who says that? The current power says it, I don't say it. The MIT is trusted, and the Security Intelligence is not trusted. Why, why? Who brought these casts? So that's where the problem comes from. Now, if the state's been corrupted, if the state's ranks have all been destroyed, if there's a chance that there's so much trust between the state and the citizen, all of these laws you've brought are just empty stories, when you look at them from one side. So, what I'm going to say about the technical materials is that, in the coming process, you taught the citizen such things that, either, the citizen went to digital reading on his own. They're listening to me on the phone. They've learned about places like WhatsApp, which has a protocol on the Internet, like Tango. In Turkey, the grocery store and the grocery store learned it out of fear, and you didn't teach it. Therefore, my friends, I salute you all, saying that this Law, 5651, must be re-interviewed from the root, all of it must be re-organized.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0439par0356	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan. Mr. Ayhan has also spoken on behalf of the individuals. So I'll put them together and give him 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0440par0361	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, lawmakers, I've been promised the views of the National Movement Party on the fourth chapter of Bill 524, which is being discussed, and I'm going to make an additional statement on behalf of myself. I hereby salute the grand jury. The law-making process is very technical, very detailed. However, I would like to make it clear immediately that we are living here again, again, in an extremely difficult case, outside of the regulations, the Law and the Law and the Building. That's how a bill is discussed. This is an incident that AKP has forced law, Civil Law, and regulations to fit in. The AKP has also compared the law-making process to itself. Why am I saying this? Dozens of subjects are not alike, no idea why they were put together, why they were put together. As a matter of fact, I'm also learning from friends who are interested in adding new materials to the issues discussed here in a new bag bill for the Plan Budget Commission. It doesn't make any sense. Izan... what do you do after they're all evaluated together? What does one do with the right procedure that needs to be put in the middle? He needs to assess. I think the government is far from that assessment. The bill and the grounds of the proposal are highly incompatible. Immediately, we see that whoever needs whatever they need in the corridors is trying to solve the problem, by giving the prepared motions to the MPs. I also wonder, how does the AKP collect so many problems, what does it do? Beyond the savings, there's a new need for just the same thing, what's being done about a new bill or a new proposal? It has to be added. In the article I'm talking about, various provisions regarding Law on Social Security Agency 5502, the exceptions to the rights of testing property, the issues in the Institutions Tax Act on their exceptions, the matters related to Article 551, the issues related to the Law on the Taxes Law, the issues related to the disabled, the issues related to the disabled, and the specific educational institutions of 5580. But this part weighs something else. What's in this section? A change is being made in the Law on Editing and Fighting Crimes on the Way of These Publishers. It's a rush, it's a rush, it's a rush, it's a rush, it's a need for the AKP, it's an emergency. Why do I put it that way? This incident, in particular, was needed by the AKP after all the spills and spills after December 17th. Now, no matter how you look at it, just now, considering what's going on on the Internet, is it true that Mr. President's speech on television as a subtitle is asked by Mr. Prime Minister himself to be taken off the phone? Minister, do you know anything about this? Is that a lie or a lie? Is this a dignified manner of conduct - let not the Prime Minister do it, let another official do it - do you think it's a dignified course of conduct? So you have to think this through, really, you're a minister, and I want to find out. You're asking an official to release news of an opposition party leader's subtitle speech. As a minister of the government, can you say that someone who did this did this with dignity, is that possible?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0441par0368	Did the people who listened to the phone and exposed it behave with dignity?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0440par0370	No, they're the same, they're the same, I don't care, they're the same. I'm not approving the Minister, the Prime Minister or anything like that, I'm just asking you as a minister of the government if such an incident is a dignified form of conduct. You're the executive officer, and I won't ask a minister of the government, but who will I ask if you like your God?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0442par0372	Who was in the government when we walked into people's bedrooms?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0443par0373	Where did they get the stuff to listen to?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0440par0374	No, I'm not with them, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary, the government if this behavior is appropriate, that's all I'm thinking about. Is this a noble way of conduct? Whosoever does so will listen and whoso wills to take it out? If you're saying it's a dignified way of doing both, as a member of the government, I'd be ashamed of it, I'd really be ashamed of it. You've become that way, I'm sorry. Why am I sad? I'm not happy that you're like this. Where did the government of the Republic of Turkey fall? It's really sad. It makes me so sad.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0444par0375	Not Turkey, where did the Prime Minister go, Prime Minister?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0440par0376	Look, there's a pool incident; it's true, it's wrong, I don't dwell on it, I'm angry with the audience...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0444par0377	No, the doers are no different, and the doers are no different.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0440par0378	...but if there's a pool incident like this, look, if there's a pool incident like this, and let this pool incident concern the people closest to the government, the people who are supposed to put money in this pool, the people who are walking around cursing these people! Did you hear what he said?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0445par0379	Have you been wondering if you've read it?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0440par0380	How do you feel about the Turkish nation? Let's put aside what you've got; how can you take such an insult to this Turkish nation? For God's sake, one of you go out and say something, one of you come out and say something. I've been talking to a minister like this again recently, and the Madam President of the day told me to please speak to the General Assembly. So he doesn't think of the government member sitting there as a member of the General Assembly or anything like that, AKP. I'm so sad, I'm taking it easy. Is it nice for a government of the Republic of Turkey to be in this situation? Are you proud of that, Minister? I know you're upset, but I'm your colleague, but it's really hard, isn't it? I find it hard to understand how you put up with it, how you put up with it. I wouldn't know about anyone else. Now, indeed, the men who speak in those pool accounts, how can you blaspheme against these people? Is that even possible?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0446par0383	Who swears?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0440par0384	How can the MP of the Republic of Turkey endure this? How's his government holding up? Oh, if one of you could just come out and tell us, that's not true. That's, like, okay, we'll accept it. Now, the reason you need these changes is because you're also trying to censor them online. You're trying to do this especially quickly, so people won't hear about this before March 30th. In abstract, general, and borderless terms, you give the TİB (TİB) authority to block access, you give permission to conduct a criminal investigation. Why? You will abuse the authority of the law. How will you use it? You give the staff immunity armor, you get what you want. In fact, why did you bring this to the palas pandiras especially before the election? The way you want to keep the citizen from hearing anything. In Article 26 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to explain and publish their thoughts and opinions in words, writing, pictures, or other ways. It also includes freedom of speech or opinion without interference from official authorities. It's a guarantee, and you're destroying it. In Article 13 of the Constitution, basic rights and freedoms can be limited to the relevant articles of the Constitution without being touched. Moreover, this limitation will not violate the spirit of the Constitution, nor will it violate its word. What you do is against the Constitution. You see social media as hostile. TV and newspapers seem to be working out somehow with the pool account, but it's a little difficult to solve this social media incident, because in a couple of past cases, you've clearly had a problem with it. You can't really keep up with social media, not like the others, he's on the run from you. You're putting pressure on the media or something -- if it's true -- there's no one here who says it's wrong, write down the leader's name, wipe the bottom of the other one. No one really wants to be in your shoes after what's happened here has become so shameful. It's hard for you, too, Mr. Secretary. It's not an easy job. Why should I come to you -- my colleague -- let me tell you something, let me come hurt you, tell you something that's gonna hurt you? But I can clearly see that the guys in the pool account who do business are cursing at these people. Please block this, one of you make a statement, they can't do it. Call the Turkish nation. You're here as a representative of the Turkish nation, how do you insult the Turkish nation? No, no, no, Mr. Haluk, like this. Say, Mr. Secretary, thank you, I'll get out of here! Let me go in peace. I can trust the country's future, but none of you are saying that, members of the cabinet. This is a really troubling event. The media is a pain in the ass to you, but what you're doing is censorship. There's nothing for you when the same things happen to other people. The MP is sitting there, and the same incidents have happened to him in the same courts with the same law enforcement officers. You've never had a voice in your head.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0447par0391	I wish that was the law then.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0440par0392	No, they will, but now you're not making a sound, you're even changing it. Child's suffering isn't easy. Look, I've been working with Mr. Bayraktar, and I can understand his psychological situation. When a man goes out -- when he says "man" -- I'm sorry, maybe I spelled it wrong -- it's salty, I don't know what happens when he comes to you, is it an oilpot? But I don't know what you call it. Now, when you use such expressions, you have to think extremely delicately. Today these, tomorrow, will be written. Everyone buys their share of it, shames them, bores them if they're embarrassed. Nothing, I don't think any of the MPs here will be happy about this in the future, just because these events took place in this country. At least he's not in my group, and we know that for sure. From time to time, you're my co-workers, and I run into you here in the middle of the conversation, and maybe you're offended, and you're offended, but you've got to stand up to those pool people's blasphemy against the Turkish nation. You won't be able to handle that tomorrow. Let alone anyone else, let alone the nation, how do you accept those statements, aren't you a member of the Turkish nation? Fear God. I thank you, I pay my respects, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0448par0397	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0449par0398	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0448par0399	Of course, you have the right.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0450par0400	Don't make fun of me?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0448par0401	No, not without teasing, but the government can. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0451par0405	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0448par0406	So, you're gonna have a little talk?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0451par0407	In short...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0448par0408	Then from your position, okay, that's it.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0451par0409	For one thing, I'd like to point out that the manner used by the Congressman is inadmissible in any way.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0452par0410	I didn't swear.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0451par0411	An idea...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0452par0412	I didn't swear, you can't talk like that.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0451par0413	An idea...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0452par0414	What's in my voice?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0451par0415	I'll speak freely. Sit down. You're gonna say all kinds of things, and you're not gonna make us talk. I'm sorry!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0453par0416	Mr. Ayhan, please, please...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0452par0417	You're talking, you're interrupting us.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0454par0418	Respect, respect.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0455par0419	Be respectful and listen, I listened to you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0452par0420	I have respect. Speech!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0455par0421	Congressmans, you can express an opinion without insulting it when you speak.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0456par0422	Where did he insult you?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0455par0423	You can express an idea without shouting, you can criticize it. But if you're talking in a way that offends the people you're dealing with, and you're talking out of style, let us answer that. First of all...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0457par0424	Don't you mind swearing at those people?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0455par0425	Wait a second, listen, don't yell!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0457par0426	I'll scream.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0455par0427	Where do you get that right?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0457par0428	I'm finding it.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0455par0429	What gives you the right to shout?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0457par0430	I'm talking...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0458par0431	Mr. Ayhan, please... please...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0455par0432	You can't yell... you can't scream.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0457par0433	People picked me, people picked me.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0455par0434	Then I'll yell at you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0459par0435	Now, you two don't yell at each other, we're good to go...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0455par0436	Please don't yell, don't say...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0460par0437	And you don't scream.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0455par0438	We're all congressmen here, we have to speak in a certain manner. If you have any ideas, you speak in a nice manner.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0461par0439	What's the matter with you?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0455par0440	You can say it differently, but you have no right to shout, no children. We're not the people you're going to yell at. Dear lawmakers, I believe that we need to take a general stance on listening events. We need to take a general stance as a political institution and as people who feel responsible for this state, for this nation. I'm convinced that this kind of...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0462par0442	I mean, when you say that...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0455par0443	Listen, please... listen, please, talk again.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0463par0444	Mr. Özensoy, please...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0464par0445	Mr. President, look, we've been listening for 15 minutes! Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0455par0446	Mr. President, if they're gonna listen, let's talk.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0463par0447	I mean, look, I'm warning you...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0465par0448	Don't listen...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0463par0449	Mr. Özensoy, please... please...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0466par0450	I don't see a way out of this if we go into the personal lives of the people, of the people, of the people, of the people, one by one, one by one, if we go into the details of these things. I don't see any way out for the sake of our government or the reputation of the political institution. We need to take a legal and moral stand here. We need to make a self-referencing statement, and I believe that, too. We need to look back at the past, and we need to make a statement, and we don't know if it's true that some of the environments, some of the environments, or from the outside, are getting into people's private lives, and they're getting into their most intimate environments, and we don't know if that's true. In today's world, they have the ability to edit, and they have the means to do a thousand tricks. They take your image, they stick it to someone else, they take your voice, they copy it somewhere else, I don't know. So I can't accept any documents without research, without review.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0467par0451	Why haven't you found it in three years, Mr. Secretary? Why have you been sitting in this government chair for three years? But what kind of answer is that now?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0466par0452	On the other hand, as a general legal attitude and moral attitude, if we as all parties, as a political institution, don't take a stand against it, if we don't get ahead of it, if we drown in its details, we will continue to live under these threats permanently in the name of our country's future. Today it becomes a person, tomorrow it becomes a person, today it happens to someone, tomorrow it happens to me, and the day after that it happens to you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0468par0453	On the contrary, it happens to you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0466par0454	Around here, smart people need to develop a general -- as I just said -- a legal and moral attitude towards different parties, different opinions. I believe that. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0469par0456	No questions on Division. Interviews on chapter four are complete.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0470par0458	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0469par0459	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0470par0460	I'd like to respond on behalf of the group on a matter or two of the Minister's matters.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0469par0461	Now, according to this 60th article, how do we do that? You want it without picking on it?
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0470par0462	I'll answer from where I sit.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0469par0463	No, he didn't pick on me. Well, then, according to 60...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0470par0464	Not without teasing, but as a group to respond to.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0469par0465	According to 60, please come in.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0470par0467	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, now, you say it all beautifully, you say it all like this, but look, you're having second thoughts about some of the issues you've been led to today. But look, three years ago, three and a half years ago, you didn't object at all.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0471par0469	We did, we did.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0470par0470	So when some tapes came out, you were kind of happy when there were tapes from different parties, you used it politically. But the time has passed, and when certain events have arisen for you, this time they are incompatible... you said in the speech just now: "Sir, it is not the fault of those who listen to it." In fact, of course, it was the fault of those who listened to him, and it was the fault of those who did it. So Mr. Prime Minister's speech has now been heard, and there's been some censorship following these instructions from Haberturke, and Mr. Bahlı's statements have been removed from the televisions. Now, look, not only are the two of them guilty, but the one who listens and the one who gives the order, so not only is the Prime Minister guilty, or the one who listens to him is not guilty. In fact, if there was some dignity, the members of that television wouldn't have done it the same way, and they wouldn't have been guilty, and they wouldn't have shown their own dignity. Now, so, look, if there's a...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0472par0473	If you complete...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0470par0474	Sure, I'll finish. Now, after the same thing happened with corruption, you showed up. Look, a lot of tapes were made, and after that, people were locked up for five years, six years, convicted, their families were offended, their children were offended. Who would protect these people's rights and laws? You were supposed to protect it, but you didn't do it then, and then when it came to you, the national army was framed. You said, you spoke of the parallel state, you made the deep state a parallel state. I mean, there's something...
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0472par0476	Yes, Mr. Halaçoglu, please complete.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0470par0477	Sure, I'll finish the last sentence.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0472par0478	It's been ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0470par0479	No, sir. Not when something happens to you, but all the time. So that's the law, that's the law, that's the way it is, that's the way it is, that's the way it is. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-04sit09spe0473par0482	I'm taking a two-minute break from the merger.
