tbmm-2014-01-21sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The opening roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you five minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Van MP Özdal Threeer, who wants to talk about the problems of the victims of the earthquake. Here you go, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0002par0014	Mr. President, even though two and a half years have passed since October 23, 2011, tens of thousands of people have been victims of the number of millions after the great earthquakes of October 23rd and November 9, 2011, and thousands of earthquakes that followed them. People died in the earthquake, people got hurt. Most of the people who were injured at that time still haven't been treated... [[Noises]] Mr. President, can you arrange the hall?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0001par0017	I warned you, Mr. Threeer, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0002par0018	Mr. President, if you could just make a time-lapse stop until we get the hall set up.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0001par0019	Here you go, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0002par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Thousands of people died, not even how many were found dead by the government. Those who lost their lives during the earthquake, those who died after the earthquake, those who died in the hospital where they were treated after the earthquake, those who lost their lives after the death of the wreckage in the earthquake, were all caused by the earthquake, but there was no indication of how many people were injured. In the earthquake, the houses were destroyed, 40,000 homes were destroyed; only 16,000 - 17,000 dwellings were built, which were given to supporters, and the houses built through the TOKI became the subject of commercial material. As the shoeboxes of the minister's child, responsible for that TOKI, people are now victims of tens of thousands of Vanians. Hospitals were destroyed, schools destroyed, businesses destroyed. They were given KOSGEB loans on jobs, but they were given to non-compulsive companies, not to any of the people who were really victims. Hospitals were destroyed, Van Obstetrics Hospital was made to look like a wreck, trillions of medical equipment was sold, looted by someone, and unfortunately, no NGO, including the Turkish Medical Association, has made a press statement. Anyone who testifies to this and stops talking is actually a partner in this score, this thala. Schools were destroyed, schools were made, but who built them? Sir, charity celebrities did it, big companies did it. But what schools did they build? On the side of the road, they built billboards on the main streets, and they showed the schools they built, not as a charity from their own pocket, but as their company's tax machine. I mean, there was corruption here, too. Take this help to those who help you. It means that we are sincere, but we don't want to say anything out of respect for the help of millions of sincere people. The dwellings were destroyed, the houses were destroyed, the people were killed, the stables were injured, the stables were destroyed, the animals, the living, the animals were destroyed, but how should the government care about the goods that will restore the lives of those people? Since we can't fit it in five minutes right now, we just wanted to give a speech about the earthquake problems, just to get our Parliament's attention. I'd like to read the official letter from the governor's office, which Mr. Aydın Nezih Doğan wrote to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy General Aid and express that we expect Parliament's support in this matter. The biggest impact of earthquakes in our province has been in the economic field. After the earthquake, economic stagnation arose in our province, some businesses were destroyed, many of our citizens lost their jobs and began to have trouble making ends meet. During this period, one of the most important needs of our victims has been the need to provide shelter. This is the text that determines the need to build 2,000 homes in Van, 500 in Ercish, because of the need for housing. This is written by the governor. We're wondering if the government, covering up the corruption of the previous governor, will offer support to a governor who's working for the benefit of the community, in the cold of the containers -- [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're wondering if this government is going to solve the ongoing family housing problem. Greetings, greetings.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0003par0032	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Islamic Party) who wants to talk about the parking problem in İstanbul. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0004par0037	Dear President, dear lawmakers, with the utmost respect to our fellow citizens and your grand delegation who are listening to us at the head of their television. Dear MPs, the parking lot is, of course, Ankara's problem, Istanbul's problem; it's painful and painful. A building permit is not granted unless the building place is separated under Article 37 of the zoning law. According to Article 44, if the structure is not assigned to the parking structure after it is built, it is not allowed to use it again. At the same time, if the parking space is not available, if the parking space is not available, depositing the parking money will only be granted permission and permission to use it on the condition that it is registered. Now, here's the thing that city municipalities in Ankara and Istanbul have done: the money they've collected, the money they've collected from our citizens in regard to buildings that are not available in the parking lot, the city's municipalities are sending to their account. Metropolitan municipalities need to open a separate bank account in the name of each county. The Department of Parking says that this account should also be interestd, and with the money collected, it has to build free parking spaces in the area where the public can use it. But is this how the practice works? Not like this. What's the app? The roads and streets assigned to the public for free are being narrowed down and used as a parking lot. In the cases in which we have opened in Istanbul and Ankara, where we have opened streets and streets for free to be used in public places, the administrative courts in Ankara, and İstanbul have decided that the administration court cannot be used as a parking lot by narrowing streets and streets. As a result, these decisions have not been carried out in accordance with Article 28 of the Law on Administrative Judiciary Law until now. We're also inviting the Minister of State to join us on this mission. I beg of you... that the executive body... is bound by the 138th Article of our Constitution... and by the relevant articles of the Constitution... to carry out court decisions, to live, to govern. Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality does not fulfil two decisions passed through the State Department on the use of these streets and streets as parking structures for free, Mr. Minister. So, as an executive, my plea to you is that, as the executive body, make sure that these court decisions are met. I've filed a complaint against the state's attorney general. These authorities are afraid of you, as you have relieved the prosecutors of their duties and the police. That's why we're really transferring you to the public now. If in the eyes of all of us in this world, God had given us all this account, if he hadn't accepted some of them to the grave, he would have had to look after the honest, honest public servant, the prosecutor, the one who didn't do it, the one who didn't do it, the one who didn't do it, the one who didn't do it, the one who didn't do it, the one who didn't do it, the one who didn't do it, the one who didn't do it, the one who didn't do it, the one who didn't do it, and the one who stopped the decisions, and the one who really wanted to do it. In this sense, we want the public to pressure the government, which has damaged the public in this way, prevented the court's decisions, prevented the court's verdicts, and left them as an ornament among the files. Why are you taking money on the streets and streets free of charge to lawmakers who go to that area? I mean, the money you put in these boxes, the money you put in the coat racks, the money you put in six safes in a house, it's not enough, but it's street and street? I made a promise that the public would ask for this account. I'd like to thank the President who promised. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0005par0044	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Adana MP Necdet Ünüvar, who asked for the appointment of Azerbaijan Day. Here you go, Mr. Unüvar.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0006par0048	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, yesterday was January 20th. January 20th is a very important date for the Turkish world; January 20th 1990 is a date of the Baku massacre; January 20th is bitter, is tears, is sadness. Dear friends, Turkey and the geography of Azerbaijan are a kind of sad and bitter geography. We face this painful reality almost every day. Look, yesterday's television footage of inhuman violence from Syria, which is on the 1st page of the newspapers today, shows that our geography continues to suffer, and the tears continue. Similar atrocities were committed in the early 1990s in the land of Azerbaijan, like Baku, Karabağ, Hodja, Kelbecer, and to our Azerbaijan brothers. On January 20, 1990, the Soviet army, with its own cold tanks, rifles, guns, and cannons, chose a cold night, especially when all the people were asleep, and wanted to take advantage of the weakest moment of the people. The heat of the independence fire within the people of Azerbaijan has never felt the cold night, and they have resisted the invasion with axes and sticks in their hands. What the people who brutally attacked Baku, the shooters couldn't calculate was that these attacks triggered the fire of independence in Baku, Azerbaijan. On January 20, 1990, Baku became independent of Azerbaijan shortly after the massacre of Hodjalı on February 26, 1992, and thanks to Almighty God, Azerbaijan is today the rising star of South Caucasus. No independence is free of charge, and no effort goes unrequited. As a matter of fact, dear friends, as a result of these efforts, today, Azerbaijan is truly one of the most important countries in the region.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0007par0053	You didn't put Azerbaijan flags in the Bursa Stadium, so quickly you forgot!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0006par0054	The Turkish and Islamic world carried many sorrows and suffering from the 20th century to the 21st century. I say he carried it because it's obvious who did the atrocities, the massacres. Even though they confessed with newspapers and television interviews, with books they wrote, they still did not appear before the court. Stop being punished, some of them have been rewarded. In January 1990, Russian tanks entered Baku, where Gorbachev won the Nobel Peace Prize in the same year. But we believe that justice will come sooner or later. It is our duty not to forget nor to forget suffering, but to remember them with good, and to remember them with good, and to remember them with mercy. Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'm here with carnations, and I'm not actually here to do an act. When we go to Baku, we put a carnation in the graves of our Azerbaijan brothers who died in Turkish martyrdom and the January 20 massacre. So, to demonstrate the sensibility of Parliament, I symbolically dedicate these carnations to the spirit of our brothers.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0008par0056	We used to send prayers, do we send carnations now, Congressman?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0009par0057	He's already sending the prayer.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0006par0058	I'm also sending you a prayer, Mr. Turkkan, with Fatiha, we'll speak with mercy. I said, "But I think you've missed it."
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0008par0059	That's when I didn't hear it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0006par0060	So you don't hear what's not working for you. From the 20th century to the 21st century, sadness was not only carried away, but also a longing. For 20 years, the toad has been pining for freedom. Hopefully, we'll try to stop this longing. Our duty is unity and unity, to fight them. I hope both Turkey and Azerbaijan will be stronger if we join hands. Thus, the sadness of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, our sorrow, our joy. The revelation and the promise of Haydar Aliyev will be fulfilled. One nation, two states, one heart, our hearts have to beat the same way. How well the late Mehmet Akif Ersoy said: No enemy can enter a nation without entering; The heart can't digest the ball as it hits a crowd. On this occasion, I ask the blessings of our Azerbaijan brothers, who died in Azerbaijan, Karabağ, Hodjalı, Syria, Palestine, and the January 20th massacre, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0010par0067	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0011par0071	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0012par0072	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0013par0073	Are you going to promise the group presidents that?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0012par0074	About that, about Azerbaijan...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0014par0075	But, Mr. President, you didn't. Wait a second, I'll have that thesis read, and then... The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation of members of the Commission at the head of the Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission, İbrahim Yigit, welcomed the invitation of Croatian Parliament Chairman of the Agriculture Commission Franjo Lucic to take an official visit to Croatia from 27 January to 30 January 2014 in the 43rd Union of the General Assembly, dated 7 January 2014. The names of the political party groups, dated 28/3/1990 and announced by the General Assembly to form a delegation under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 3620, are submitted to the information. [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] It has been presented to your knowledge. Mr. Halaçoglu, come in. You're not in the system.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0015par0101	On behalf of the group, Mr. Original...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0014par0102	You go in, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0015par0103	I'll go in, she'll talk in person.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0014par0104	No, please, you know my app. You go in, I'll make him talk for you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0015par0105	Sir, Deputy Director of the Group. On behalf of our group...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0014par0106	Okay. Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0016par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. On the night of January 19, 1990, 143 of the Azerbaijan Turkish youths who were supposedly standing in front of the Soviet tanks entering Baku to protect the Armenians were brutally martyred. The incident was carried out on charges that Turks who had previously been expelled from Armenia had surrounded Armenian sites in Baku. Its place in history as the Black January Massacre has played an important role in the development of independence in Azerbaijan, the development of the idea of independence. To all the Azerbaijan youths who have lost their lives, I wish them God's mercy, my condolences to their families.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0017par0113	Yes, thank you. Mr. Slim, come in. You gave it to Mr. Original. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0018par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, twenty-four years ago today, the Red Army of the Soviet Union of Socialist Republics (so-called Soviet Socialist Republics) attacked the Azerbaijan people who sought the independence of Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) and filled Azadlik Square for this purpose. Those martyrs today, beside our Turkish martyrdom, lie in the light of the martyrs. Thanks to them today, independent Azerbaijan shines as the star of the Caucasus. So, on this occasion, I remember the martyrs with mercy and gratitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0019par0121	Thank you. There's a resignation notice from the commission, and I'm going to read it: I'm resigning as a member of the European Union Commission for Integration. I'd like to pay tribute to your knowledge. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the causes and consequences of violence against our teachers and educators by a number of students and students, we propose and establish and propose the opening of Parliamental research on the basis of the 98th, 104th and 105th Articles in which our Constitution is underlined, in accordance with the Articles of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Mersin]] 2) Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 6) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] 7) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Lug]] 11) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Kütahya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[Slap]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Samsun]] [[Kayseri]] [[Eskişehir]] For forty years I will be a slave to the one who teaches a letter. Our teachers, blessed by the word of the one who says, "Hazreti Ali," are the most important thing that shapes a person's life after their parents. In the past, our teachers, whom we entrusted our child with saying, "Eti is your bone." They are not as good at discipline as they used to be. Students who accuse teachers and school administrators of not doing anything about it when they hear about the existence of students who have violated the discipline of education, oppose the decision and warnings made by the educational institution when it comes to their own children. The lack of legislation that protects teachers, or rather, the lack of protection from the educational professions that our community almost considers sacred, is tied up in many areas by our teachers. Those who try to do a respectable profession, such as teaching, have to deal with parents who ignore their children's mistakes while in a hurry to make a living. In many cases, fellow students take jobs, teachers, and school administration to impact, stab wounds. Sadly, many teachers are desperate for this situation, not to refer an undisciplined student to the disciplinary board, but even to warn them and not to warn them. Students who know that their parents are standing beside them from time to time are no longer on the routine news of the newspapers when they do the coup and violence work with themselves or with their friends. In order to prevent violence, schools should be the most important centers, teachers should be the most important trainers, but virtually the central schools of violence, and those exposed to violence are teachers. While the teaching profession is considered a respectable and sacred profession, the situation in which our teachers are either down or downgraded requires all responsible people in society to pause and reflect for a moment. Where did something go wrong and end up like this? The fact that our teachers, whose primary task is to train, have become an individual trying to fill the period aside is equivalent to the fact that they have dynamite at the foundation of society. For the reasons we have explained above, we propose and propose the establishment and establishment of Parliamental research commissions in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, TBM Institution, and 105th Articles, in order to determine the reasons and consequences of violence against our teachers and educators. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the reasons and consequences of the changes in life standards of our teachers, who shape man's future and therefore the future of society, for the purposes of the past and the outcomes of our life standards, we propose and establish the opening of Parliamental research under Article 104th and 105th Articles of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Mersin]] 2) Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Elizipt]] [[Mersin]] [[Samsun]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kastamon]] 11) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] 12) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Lug]] 15) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Kütahya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[Eskişehir]] The education issue is a total system with its trainer, its manager, its education and its locations. In view of the amount of service taken and given, a large portion of human life is spent in this system. Even if people complete their education, they are able to live on with the knowledge and manners they receive during their training. On the other hand, the education process of at least one of the family members is starting again, even if their own education life is complete. In this way, every stage of human life is about education. Every time you start school, little hearts are like, "What are you gonna be when you grow up?" I'm going to be a teacher, considering the teachers they usually imitate. They answer. This desire at this age is innocent, pure, and purest, because at that age, the materialistic thought has yet to exist in the universes of these children. As the years go by, the idea of becoming a teacher gradually fades away, many students begin to turn to professions that they don't know what they do but think are respectable in society. Teachers are, of course, the most prestigious place in society, and unfortunately, respectability is now measured in materiality. In the teaching profession, those who choose other professions are multiplying because they are anxious to live on less wages, perhaps because they have high scores when they don't want to. The teaching departments of universities are considered to be the selected chapters to avoid idleness. As a sacred profession, teaching has been brought to this position due to wrong practices. The value that an engineer can shape a few metals with knowledge and good manners is greater than the value of a teacher who manages to shape a person who is the most difficult process in the world. It's a contradiction that can't be understood that a doctor, an engineer, a soldier, a judge, a prosecutor, will earn more than the teacher who raised him. "There are many people willing to work for it if they like it, if they don't like it." His rejection, with his words, is more likely to trigger gangrene than covering the wound. Our educators mention that they are being held outside the scope of teaching and teaching staff in the "equal wages equal to equal work" arrangement of Article 666 (BK/TK) and claim that there is no additional payment. It is also alleged that between 2004-2012, there was a 175-percent increase in employees' monthlys, but the increase in teachers' monthlys remained limited to 154 per cent. "Educators, let alone with their current salaries, are unable to move students and education into the future, even to the next month," they emphasise. On these grounds, we propose and propose the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 98th, Article 104th and 105 of our Constitution, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to assess the quality and competency of the care services provided at mental disabled care and rehabilitation centers and to be taken the necessary measures to determine the methods of control regarding the service, we respectfully submit to the need for the opening of Parliamental research, as required by Articles 104, and 105, of our Constitutional Parliamentary Council of Turkey. [[Eskişehir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Erzurum]] [[Elizipt]] [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[Kütahya]] [[Adana]] 10) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 12) Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh [[Ankara]] [[Samsun]] 14) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kastamon]] 17) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Mersin]] Photos of the abuse of health care services of mentally disabled individuals entrusted to state institutions or institutions known to the state have been exposed to media, from time to time, by persons, institutions or ministers concerned about the necessary investigation and measures being taken. The recent incident has again shown us that the concerns of the mentally impaired people whose lives are entrusted with knowledge, skills, and consciences have been resurfaced by the nature and competence of the services in care centers of Eskişehir Mentally Responsive Women's Care and Recovery Center, allegedly suffering from severe dehydration and loss of a kidney failure and loss of life. In addition to the psychological, social, economic difficulties of the families of mentally disabled individuals, in particular cases such as the loss of parents of adult mentally disabled persons, the boarding care and rehabilitation services are more essential than a choice. Because of the lack of awareness of the needs of mentally disabled individuals and the problems with the narrative, their addiction is increasing and more responsibility is being placed on those who provide care. It is vital that the physical, psychological, and social needs of disabled individuals be met, their vital symptoms followed, their medications given on time, the follow-up to toxic effects of drugs, and the treatment that may occur as soon as possible is under way for the care of the mentally disabled. The quality and efficiency of rehabilitation services is described by international studies where the independence of mentally disabled individuals can also be increased. While there is no current statistical data in our country, the number of disabled and even the total number of disabled are still open to debate. The overall purpose of the study is to determine the quality of services for disabled individuals whose lives are entirely on the conscience of staff in mental-rehab centres and to ensure the sustainability of the quality of service. 1) Identifying the number of disabled people who receive care and rehabilitation services at mental health care and rehabilitation centres in our country, 2) To determine the number of staff who serve in mental health care and rehabilitation centres and the distribution according to vocational groups, 3) Figure out the number of disabled people who have been injured, injured and lost their lives during the care services they receive at mental health care and rehabilitation centres, 4) To determine the quality, competence, and quality of the services provided at mental health care and rehabilitation centres, 5) To determine the methods of auditing the services of staff at mental health care and rehabilitation centres 6) Set safety measures and security systems at relevant centres. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's 21/01/2014 Tuesday (now), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. On 15 October 2012, it was given by the Deputy Chairman of the Bingöl Group İdris Baluken (1614 rows no. lu) The parliamentary inquiry motion given to Turkey's Grand National Assembly in order to determine the AKP's errors in Syrian policies has been proposed to step ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations Tuesday (21/01/2014) and to co-exist in the same date of talks. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a group proposal from Nazmi Gür, Van MP.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0020par0321	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, first of all, we were deeply shocked by the images of torture in Syria, where international broadcasters brought it into the service yesterday, and we found it difficult to see and hear. This crime against humanity, no matter who it comes from, no matter who it's done by, it deserves to be condemned as well as a serious reproach, hate, and a severe reproach. In fact, as the international press said, about 11,000 people have died in these tortures, systematic tortures. Who knows, maybe a lot more than that. We can say that there are about 55,000 images that have been seized, that the death rate is very high, assuming that it's evidence. Therefore, I would like to express from here once again all the sacrifices of torture in Syria, the hearts of all those who have lost their lives, the hearts of all those who have lost their lives, the mercy of God, and the condolences of their relatives. Dear friends, there is no doubt that the civil war in Syria for nearly three years and the destruction of this civil war have had a lot of international forces, some regional states, and a lot of contributions. Therefore, I would like to once again emphasize that in the blood of 11,000 people who have been particularly tortured in Syria, there is also responsibility for states that have been wrongly policyd on Syria from the beginning. In fact, in the future, this account will be seen in international courts -- when the victims of torture in Syria are being questioned about crimes committed against humanity -- these murders committed in international courts in Syria will reveal the responsibility of governments, the third parties, those who are standing behind it, those who support it, and those who are involved in the civil war. I don't have the slightest doubt about it. Therefore, once again, I condemn these images that froze all of our blood last night, the images of torture, with hatred, with violence; and I want to emphasize once again that we are with the victims of torture, and that, in essence, it is humanity who was killed and murdered in Syria. Dear friends, in the civil war in Syria, we have said that some states, regional states have their finger and their role, that their wrong policy has a role, and we will continue to say it after that. One of them, unfortunately, is Turkey, and is the wrong Syrian policy of the AKP government from the beginning. That's why, today, because of Syrian politics, we believe in the need for a parliamentary investigation, and therefore, to present our group proposal to the Council's knowledge. But unfortunately, despite all our warnings, despite our suggestions, the government continues to maintain its wrong policies in Syria. Here you are, all of you, in the last ten days, in border lengths, in Adana, in Hatay territory, and in other places, we don't know who, trucks, buses, what they say is a state secret, they're being seized, they're being seized. On the other hand, there's no information about what's in these trucks that really satisfy the public; it's called a government secret. In this particular, it is not acceptable for MIT to begin almost shipping, dear friends. When you read the law on the mission of the MIT, nowhere but nowhere, especially on the 26th article that Mr. Prime Minister drew on his gold on his way to Brussels yesterday, there is no shipping between the duties of MİSCE, and there is no transport of arms to a neighbouring country among its duties. Again, among MIT's duties, it goes to the Turks. Under the name of the government, the government refuses to reveal what is in it, but what the world knows, what it will guess, whatever wisdom it is. Now, there may be a fight with the parallel state or by its public name, a power struggle, a rant fight, but that doesn't mean that the state's intelligence organization is involved in an international crime as well. The MIT clearly commits crimes here, crimes against its own law. Of course, it's not the work of the police or prosecutors who, as some prosecutors or government might say, are under the control of others, taking orders from others. Of course, some governments may have covert operations. These covert operations, but if you do it that clearly, if you try to do covert operations like this with a parallel state, of course the consequences would be extremely severe for you, for the country. I think something else is missing; you know, there's a train line along the Syrian border -- we Kurds call it "efficiency" or "efficiency," or "effected" -- and in these trains, how many militants have been moved and how many weapons have been carried and how much help has been carried out -- particularly Al Qaeda-related organizations. If a prosecutor stops a train one day in this area, let's not be surprised. Dear friends, Turkey's specific discrimination policies in the Syrian issue, its approach to support only one sect, to keep some groups outside, to apply discrimination to some groups is not an acceptable attitude, not a situation. What we want is for the government to approach the entire Syrian peoples regardless of their language, color, gender, regardless of their religious beliefs, regardless of their ethnic identity. Especially here, it is our basic suggestion that the Kurds, the Suryans, the Assyrian people, the Armenians, show solidarity with the Syrian people, open their borders to humanitarian aid under the pressure of all the other radical groups there. Now the Prime Minister is in Brussels. With regard to the European Union, I hope it will return with concrete steps, and especially with regard to this HSYK, it will give up its great stubbornness. However, I know that this issue in Syria will also be raised, dear friends, because on January 22nd, Geneva 2 Conference will be held -- in Switzerland -- and at this conference, all the democratic dynamics of Syria, especially Kurds -- the Assyrians, the Suryanis, the Armenians are left out. I'd like to point out once again that an international conference without them is not going to pan out, because there's no way that the Syrian opposition, called the opposition of Syria, which was forced together at that conference if they weren't at this conference, would come out of there with a concrete truce or a solution. So once again, we're going to underline here. The Kurds must be in Geneva, under their own names, through the High Kurdish Council, where all the other peoples of Syria, especially the Suryani and the Armenian people, must be here. If Syria's future is spoken on this international platform, all these peoples must be replaced, represented. Dear friends, in all these matters, we have repeatedly expressed many things on this stand, including many thoughts, suggestions, criticism. It's possible to make a wrong turn. These images are said to have been revealed with Qatar's backing, but let's not forget that, especially in the civil war of these violent murders, the civil rights violations of the opponents, as well as Qatar, countries like Saudi Arabia have a share. I salute the General Assembly with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0021par0336	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Mehmet Ersoy, Sinop MP.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0022par0339	Mr. President, I have been sworn in by the Peace and Democracy Party Group to investigate Turkey's position regarding the events in Syria. I salute your high council. Our esteemed lawmakers, in early 2011, the development of what was called the Arab Spring, has also spread to Syria, and the country has soon turned into a pool of blood because of the harshness of the unwitting Syrian administration, who could not read the developments correctly. A thousand years of our common culture, the responsibility of our history and our brotherhood, the development of civil war, pain, suffering for the Syrian people, all sorts of diplomatic and humanitarian attempts on our good relations, Bezar Esed and the Syrian administration, but Esed's administration has also closed its ears to friendly advice and suggestion, as it did not learn from the painful events in North Africa months ago. What would he prefer? No matter how much legitimate, illegitimate weapons and ammunition his government has, he'd rather start tearing down his cities and villages than asking for more democracy and human rights than he did. Despite all our warnings, despite our calls, Esed has not given up cruelty, nor has the international community, particularly the United Nations, seriously moved. Every day, all opposition groups sought and fought against Esed. For nearly three years, chaos, mayhem, war and disaster have captured the country, and now our Syrian brothers have died of hunger and misery, even if they get rid of the gun. Today, more than 130,000 Syrians have lost their lives in these conflicts, 6.5 million Syrians have lost their homes, 9 million Syrians have become in need of help, 2.3 million Syrians have been forced to take refuge in their neighbors, while those left behind have no homes, no bread, no vaccines. The Republic of Turkey has decided to do what a strong, sincere, compassionate, brotherly, friendly country should do, while humanity is near to us, and it has endeavored to help our Syrian brothers within the border and at zero points and in our country. Today, about 600,000 Syrians live in our country. Twenty-three thousand of these refugees are housed in 12 thousand containers and 31 thousand tents at 22 temporary shelters, set up from Hatay to Malatya. About 12,000 public officials are in our housing centers. Again, about 46,000 students are taught in 693 classrooms. There are over 2 million polyclinics in the hospitals that are built, and there are all kinds of services. So far, the sum of the expenditures we've made in person by the state is $1.6 billion. According to the UN criteria, the total value of assistance and services is $2.5 billion. Dear MPs, the images, which will freeze the blood of everyone who was in the press yesterday and again be damned by everyone who was human, have shown us once again that we have come to the end of the promise for all of us in Syria. Next to us, instead of trying to tell the world about our country and our government, let's all support the international community for this blood to stop, to talk more about its costs, to see what's in those trucks, so that those babies don't die, and to try to peep through the vaults with some evidence that we can get from there, and instead of trying to tell the world about it, let's all of us support our country and our government, so that this blood can be repaid for the atrocities of the oppressors. Let us once again remember that we have no choice but to stand before the tyrant in a single voice, and that it is essential for our humanity to do so. And so, for this occasion, truly, in the war that has been there all these years, to all the Syrians who have lost their lives in pain, I ask the grace of God, to all of them, to be patient, to be patient, to be rid of this trouble, and to be quick. Now I truly believe that there is nothing left to do, and that there is nothing left to investigate in Syria. As of today, with these thoughts, I say I am against the BDP Group's proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0023par0347	What's his current condition, Hajji? What's his status? The final point is, is it still assad, or asesed?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0024par0348	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a group proposal. Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0025par0350	Mr. President, dear friends, it is not only a matter of choice to support this BDP proposal, but it must be a necessity, because indeed Turkey is not just one of the countries of the region that it adopted in terms of foreign policy and domestic politics that supports Syria, but also in terms of four years ago, it seems to be one of the countries in the region and in which there is a substantial loss of credit, dignity, and at the moment it is not one of the countries of the region that defines peace. Of course, there's a very clear reason for this: this is about the conflict of the Syrian peoples today, the war that the United States supports to obtain a new power sequence based on a miscalculation in the Middle East. It is obvious that war was waged in Syria. The Baas regime is clearly aligned on another axis of Syria, China and perhaps Iran, the so-called opposition forces of the United States, Qatar, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and Turkey. But the big issue is that when Turkey entered this war throughout this war, it did not discuss this miscalculation properly in its own organs; nor did Parliament have a proper discussion about it, nor did the media become part of a proper debate on it. Like Libya, the assumption that Syria, like other Arab countries, could soon be brought down by an internal rebellion has not been confirmed at the cost of a human disaster, as we all have seen, because all information about Syria is extremely wrong. It was not even thought that the secular regime in Syria was a total challenge, that it was part of the inner life of Syria, of its internal dynamics. At a place where the majority is Sunni, it was thought that Syria, as a country ruled by a Alevi minority, would soon overthrow its administration, but this brute, which has nothing to do with social reality or history because Syria is not a country ruled by the Alevis, nor is the Alevis in Syria actually in power, the Nusayris. One of the most important pillars of the Baas regime is the Sunni of Damascus and Aleppo. In this framework, the uprising has finally emerged from its orbit, seeking rights and justice, not from a struggle to form a democratic regime in the place of a single party regime, but from almost every part of the world, from all countries, from Western Europe, from the United States, from Bangladesh, from the Mashrım, and from Turkey, of course, from Iraq, from the thousands, tens of thousands, the Islamic mujahidi Turkey's role in this war, unfortunately, has played a nearly immediate role in the ability of a rogue state. Not to the institutions of his country, nor to the public of his own country, nor to the will of the people living on border lengths, but to the strategic accounts of the United States of America, he took on human rights violations and continued to take them. Just now, the AKP spokesman is talking about how much cruelty there is in the photos. That persecution also existed when the Prime Minister, Assad, and Assad, launched a new campaign of friendship, and Syria was not a free country at the time. But when the battle begins, everyone must know what the armies are capable of. Yes, that's how an army behaves, but the opposition must act differently from him. But who can say that the opposition is in such a grim state? In a war where everyone violates the rules of war, no rules of war, no valid military law is in effect, Syria is in a pool of blood. Now, the talks held in Geneva are clearly evidence that this account does not hold up the war account. The Syrian regime and the opposition eventually had to sit at the same table. Without having to enter this bloodbath, Turkey was left outside the table as a result of a constructive diplomacy, with a constructive foreign policy, with a political and diplomatic superiority that could be achieved without entering the pool of blood, and now, as a result of the medial activity that imposed its own accounts on Turkey, which was the last to be applied to the idea of the process, which was the last to be included. In discussions two years ago in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we told all parliamentarians who hailed Turkey's role that time you wanted to use Turkey to the wrong account; your account is wrong, and Turkey's account is wrong. As a matter of fact, this came out. Now, my dear friends, this is not just an internal issue of Syria, the internal issue in Syria has become an internal matter of Turkey; the bombs that exploded in Hatay, the refugee raids of all border lengths, the immigrant, the inventor, who was told by the government spokesman had exceeded 600,000 people, the challenges that they had to face without having any status, and inevitably the demographic structure that changed across the border. The local people of these cities are now able to enter into the mutual hatred tensions that we can say are not entirely without cause, that they may now be in the minority, because they think that they are in the middle of this stream of immigrants. Isn't it obvious that all of this doesn't fit into an account? Therefore, the peace and democracy party's insistence that the Assembly should discuss this from the beginning to the end should be met with the will of the government's party before anyone else, for perhaps a mind from the United States of America's accounts, from the Saudi accounts, from the Qatari's accounts, from Kuwait's accounts, could be out of the ranks of this Assembly. How long can Turkey go on like this and how long will it go on? Moreover, Turkey welcomes the fact that the only positive product of all the conflict in Syria, its only positive product, the Rojava Kurdistan, has established a self-run, democratic, pluralist, self-governmental new decentralisation, not with sympathy, but with hostility, and is also entering covert operations to push them from their positions. So while our internal issue is still awaiting a solution to the Kurdish problem in Turkey, there is a need for a non-conflict conflict and a gap of solutions in our south, Turkey is involved with military and political methods for another Kurdish population to solve its own affairs as it knows it. In a multi-faceted war, resources are running out for no reason, Turkey is isolated for no reason, and human rights are facing severe violations on both sides of the border for no reason. Therefore, dear friends, the wrong account returns not only from Baghdad, but also from Damascus. The miscalculation eventually returns everywhere, and why should Turkey's people, Kurds, Arabs, Turks pay for the government's ambitious act of power, power declaration accounts, why should we pay for it from Turkey's budget, and why should the organizations established for Turkey's security become spy organizations that threaten the security of other countries? I'd like you to vote immediately for the adoption of this research motion. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0026par0362	Thank you. Sinan Oğan, Iğdir MP, has asked for a statement against the group's proposal for the Peace and Democracy Party.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0027par0365	Mr. President, first of all, before I begin my speech, I would like to begin again here, condemning the massacre of the Soviet armies in Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, on January 20, 1990. We're discussing the errors of AKP's Syrian policy with this motion for research, with this motion. However, is there any truth to the AKP's Syrian policy, so that we can talk about its wrongs as well as its rights? It is important to state that the AKP has no tangible aspects of Syrian policy. Since yesterday, the press has shown pictures of thousands of civilians, thousands of soldiers, tortured by the Assad regime. Indeed, as Mr. Mehmet Ersoy has just stated, it is unthinkable for anyone with a little bit of humanity to remain silent about these atrocities, these atrocities. Of course, we must stop this violence, of course we must condemn this brutality, but we must also condemn the violence of those who cut out the lungs, those who cut the human head, and those who stood up to our borders. Today, in Syria, the opposition from power to its opposition struggles in a pool of blood, almost as if it had forgotten its humanity. So, what do we do as Turkey and as AKP power, what do you do? Where are you in all this violence? And that question needs to be answered here. If you're bleeding on your side, if you're on fire next to your head, and you're going in there with a bucket of gas, not a bucket of water, then you've got a role in that violence, which means there's a share in that crime that you need to be billed for. Dear friends, Mr. Prime Minister says: "What right do you have to stop trucks going to Syria? What right do you have to make the call?" And another name, the Home Secretary, says: "The trucks that go to Syria are helping the Turks there." Did the Syrian Turkmen come to your mind now? What about the Syrian Turkmen? We didn't get this kind of help. They made a statement, what do you say to that? You haven't done anything to the Syrian Turks, at least don't use the names of the Syrian Turkmen, at least don't use the name for your bad intentions. The Syrian Turkmen have been left unclaimed today, unfortunately. The Geneva 2 Conference does not represent Syrian Turkmen, the second largest group after the Arabs in Syria. So, are you the scarecrow? Our brothers there don't have any say in the matter. And recall what time ye were wont to transgress therein, and ye were questioned about all things. What happened? Why don't you look after the Syrian Turkmen, why can't the Syrian Turkmen be represented in Geneva 2? So you don't have a problem with the Syrian Turkmen. At least don't use the Syrian Turks for your misdeeds. You're no good, at least we're sending weapons to the Suriye Turkmen. Don't say, "Don't make it a target for the opposition and the Assad government." Today, dirty games are being staged in Syria, and unfortunately, you are on one side of these dirty games. The work is so out of control, the presence of Turkey there, its power is so badly classified that al-Qaedeli terrorist groups, called ISIS, can find the courage to come to the Syrian border and demand the weapons of other opposition groups who have surrendered. With horses, smugglers can form hundreds of cavalry troops and attack the Turkish border. Dear friends, Turkey has never been so humiliated in any time, and Turkey has never been so insecure about the border and its reputation, unfortunately, you've accomplished that. I'd like to ask you, if there's blood flowing in Syria, do you know why both the power and the opposition have been affected by this bloodshed, and why the power hasn't been overturned in Syria so far? Because of Iran's power behind it. So, by drilling the embargo against Iran -- your banks get commissions -- do you not cause Iran to send more weapons to Syria? You are. Friends, after the raid on the Blue Marmara, I marveled at our growing relations with Israel and made a question motion. Your minister's answer was, "My dear, trade is one thing, politics is another. " In Gaza, you contributed with your trade in every bullet. How do you feel about contributing to the commissions that are now flowing in Syria and allowing Iran to cause more bloodshed in Syria? How do you eat commissions, illegal money... that will make him send more weapons to Iran? Don't you know that those illegal coins in the shoe boxes cause more bloodshed in Syria? You know, but what's really going on? It is not the loss of the blood of poor citizens in Syria, but the collection of more dollars and more euros in shoe boxes. So you can't talk about intimacy in Syria here. You've buried your sincerity in shoeboxes. Pass the bloodshed here in Syria, the persecution of humanity, because that blood is on your hands. That blood must be on your hands from the shoe boxes, so just go through it once. Unfortunately, unfortunately, the war continues in Syria, and the continuation of this war is in the interests of global forces. Look, they went to Libya, and they found Gaddafi, and they destroyed him in a sewer pit. The same global forces are trying to stop Syria from becoming a threat to Israel so that there will be more civil wars in Syria. And you, unfortunately, continue to fuel the fire in order for the civil war to continue in Syria as a pawn of this global game, to divide Syria. Dear friends, if they want global powers, they can stop the war in Syria today, but they don't. For the first time, a hope of peace was born in Geneva, and immediately other sources came into play. These images were not kept waiting for two days after Geneva, but were published before Geneva, when, suddenly, peace came. So you leapt upon him, and made peace, and blocked all their ways in Syria. What we, as Turkey, will do in Syria is support peace, friends, not shed more blood there. What we need to do in Syria is not cut off governments who send weapons to the region, fill the commissions in shoe boxes, and cause more people's blood to be spilled. Therefore, your Syrian policy is all wrong. Just your Syrian policy? Of course not. Your foreign policy mistakes, which you have set out as zero problem, and unfortunately, the problem in front of Turkey, which can't be solved for decades, must be discussed here, from beginning to end, your foreign policy errors. In foreign policy, he says the days for you to answer to the High Council, including Syria, are near, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0028par0377	Thank you. I submit the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0029par0381	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit02spe0028par0382	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Tüloğlu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Sarı, Mr. Çıray, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Acar, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Ekcin, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Eyük, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Bilgehan, Mr. Kuruturk, Mr. Gök, Mr. Akova, Mr. Turmen and Mr. Öz. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0028par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The peace and democracy group's proposal was not enough for the meeting to vote on. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. Peace and Democracy Party, I submit the group's proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday (January 21st 2014), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I would like to submit our group's following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On January 21, 2014, it was suggested that the Parliament's motion to conduct a full investigation into the autonomy rights of academics in the international and national arena in order to ensure that Turkey's name will be mentioned in the changing and developing world of Turkey, as well as on Tuesday (January 21st 2014), was read in the General Assembly of İzmir MP Oktay Vural and Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoglu and Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu. zuhal Topcu, Ankara MP [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0030par0027	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on behalf of the MHP Group, and I salute you all. Although the number of colleges has increased in our country, the faculty...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0028par0029	Congressmans, please... Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0030par0031	...the number has not yet reached certain measurements. The most important reason is that a certain quality for the academic profession remains unresolved. The issue of the rights of academics who work at the university remains unresolved for ten years, but we are still experiencing a poor quality of quality. President, will you please shut him up?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0028par0033	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0030par0035	How is advanced scientific research expected from an academic who is having trouble making a living every day? How can the academics who practice mobbing every day raise a healthy generation? The issue is how to move Turkey into the future. In particular, how are you going to build the great Turkey that the AKP has prepared for the year 2023 -- which generations, which regeneration centers, which qualified staff, which needs to be discussed again? If we want to see Turkey in the future in the international arena, the problems with the rights of academics must be resolved. What matters is how to provide equipment, not how to raise qualified people. The expert in his field is to ensure that he is properly trained as an academic, has original ideas, is brought up in self-security. The total budget of state universities in 2014 is 11.5 billion TL. The total budget for the Ministry of National Education is $34 billion. The total budget of Turkish universities is not even the research budget of a university in the United States, and I want to stress that in particular. I would also like to point out that 60 per cent or 70 per cent of the budgets for universities are staff expenses. So, what we have, what we have, is an indication of where the country is going. Especially when it comes to salary, this is the spot where we can give it as the soft belly of 11 years of AKP power. How can our fellow researchers make their Masters and Ph.D.s with $2,200 and make a living, and how can they guarantee their future? These are the problems that really need to be answered. Academics' salaries, particularly during the AKP's ruling period between 2002 and 2013, have suffered a serious decline. According to studies, Turkey is ranked 17th in the international arena in terms of salary at the level of admission to the academy. This ranking is behind even India, Malaysia and Argentina. In the salaries paid to senior academics, we ranked 21st among 28 countries, and from here, the government still did not consider it, despite many emphasises on the salaries of the academics from these platforms. Should academics do their research with low wages or should they support their homes? How do we get into 2023 Turkey? What scientific research is expected of these friends? We want to stress in particular that in order to address the question of university quality, academics need to be resolved. Again, the total budget of Turkish universities is not even the research budget of an American university. The budgets of our universities in 2014 and the chances of further research by Turkey have been almost ignored from the beginning. The whole world has also heard that college professors' salaries are no longer on the level to meet their needs. Thirty years ago, researchers' salary was 38 percent higher than the engineer's salary. As of 2013, the research worker's salary is 2,200 lira, the assistant professor's salary is 2,600 lira, the branch manager's salary is 3,250 lira, the engineer's salary is $3,400. We'll leave you to calculate the difference. The salary of a professor who received 1,500 Turkish liras in 2012 increased by 2.6 years, while a judge's salary increased by 5.3 times, the lawyer's salary 5.2 times, the technician's salary 5.1; the branch manager's manager's salary increased by 4.3; the attending's doctor's 3.8; the nurse's has increased 3.7 times. After such a comparison, the situation seems to be even more pathetic. In this case, we want to emphasize that some of the faculty are on the edge of poverty and some are on the verge of starvation. The Prime Minister states that the national income per capita has reached $11,000, and he makes that emphasis all over the place. When we look at the living conditions of the citizen, we see that this does not reflect the facts. The minimum wage is 800 euros, and when we receive an average salary of $2,000, we see that there is a serious distribution of income in Turkey. This structure is getting deeper. We began to understand more and more the reasons for this deepening with corruption that emerged after 17 December 2013. Whose money is in whose safes, whose shoeboxes? We certainly don't have it. We want to emphasize them. For a family of four to live in a manner worthy of human dignity, the minimum amount is given at $3,702, which has just been announced as a minimum living limit. Studies show to us that the minimum amount of poverty required for a person to live and take his place in the social world is $1,853. And the limit of hunger that we can express as sustainability is $1,853, and I would like to point that out again. The average monthly cost of food for a family of four is 865 TL. When we get the rent average of $550, we can see that food and housing is $1,434. It shows that 71 percent of an officer's average salary is spent on food and housing. As for the minimum wage, we call it: "You die, don't live." We're stressing that we want to draw attention to the circumstances under which the minimum wage struggles to survive. We can't afford to waste a human being, but there's a blind, deaf and dumb power against all of this. In particular, it is important that one tenth of your work and performance to cover up corruption and theft is spent on solving the problems of academics in particular. Again, the problems of researchers are a mountain. In accordance with Article 50/D of Law 2547, the employment guarantees of researchers who have started the mission are problematic, and the body of researchers must be redefined. We present with respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0031par0047	Thank you. The National Movement Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Yüksel Özden, Müğla MP.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0032par0050	Ya Yüksel, you're an academic. How does an academic speak against you? Yüksel Hodja, you're an academic, all academics listen to you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0033par0051	My dear President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have received a pledge from the National Party for Action. At the beginning of my words, I salute your grand delegation. Yes, at this moment and all other times, we know that our fellow professors, our friends, listen to us, listen to us with the whole country. There's a sentence at the beginning of the MHP group proposal, which says: "Researching the situation of the faculty so that Turkey can make its voice heard around the world." I'd like to say at the very least what we would say at the very end of the situation with the precious friends, the professors, and maybe tell you what's been done and what's been done right after that. We discussed on different platforms that we were not satisfied with the situation of teaching members when their salaries were examined nationwide and internationally compared, and showed that these numbers were inadequate, and as far as I can remember, our Prime Minister instructed the Finance Minister to do so, there's no word on that. As we look at it over the years, the arrangement that really needs to be made in this area, on the one hand, the fees paid to the entry level, the research worker, should be to encourage the arrival of all capable and motivated capacities to come here. We also believe that it is necessary to maintain justice here, from the assistant professor to the assistant professor, when we look at it as inter-agency, and we believe that the scissors between the beginning and the most senior need to be kept in order to predict the performance, to evaluate the performance. There are things that are done here, things that need to be done. Now that our dear friend has expressed himself, let's take a look at our situation in the world. On the one hand, we're talking about raising a professor, so it's basically raising a professor, and what's going to follow immediately is giving the professor his rights. Let's look at it with indicators: Since the day we came to power, we have been a government that has raised Turkey's need for university as institutions and the professor's need as the first article and has been working on it. Let's talk about where we're looking. And I'm saying in the first hand, as someone who has a master's degree, a doctorate abroad, on a government scholarship when I went abroad in 1986, and from decades to 1970 to 1985, the state was far from capable of sending graduates abroad, students to Ph.D. and even talent. In 1985, 56 people were sent abroad, only 56. In 2007, we came out to send a thousand people abroad, and we went on the ad, and we got all the applications. We sent 560 students that year, 10 times the number of students at that time, when we came up with skills, exams, and then only 5,000 students in just five years. When we look at it as a teaching member, we also started the teaching program (CIP) in the country to meet the need that many universities in the country have not been able to provide with their own resources, academic and physical resources; and to fully use the capacity of many older, institutionalized universities, and we are rapidly raising the professors that this country needs. Now, let's look at the projects that are making noise around the world: Today, we are a country that is interested in building its own car, and we are preparing its own projects, making its own satellite, creating its own plane, creating its own drones, building its own non-human aircraft. It's not about words, it's about the opportunities we've set aside here, and it's about the incentives we've made. Let's put another data out there, not what we've done, but look at it as a reflection of the consequences of what we've done. In the same years, in the following years, many of our friends who went abroad were witnesses, many of our researchers around the world have not returned to the country, and my valued colleague knows very well -- perhaps one of those factors -- but it was not the only factor; it was the environment where he could work when he came to the country, it was the incentives, the support. Now, again, let's look at numbers: 2007 to 2000, so let's go back a little bit, one of the biggest things that we're complaining about in this country is brain draining; it's that grown brains have to go abroad, in the country, to the country, to the country, to the many capacity that have been raised, to go abroad, to work in this country. When we look at the numbers, between 2007 and 2013, we were able to bring back 2,000 of the people this country raised, and they started working on a lot of projects. Here's the indicator: the environment we've created in the country, the resources we've provided, the incentives we've provided, 2,000 professors abroad - 2,000 researchers - have returned to work. In addition, we've done inventory of this, and it's been revealed that researchers in 42 countries have been contacted by each of them, that they can work in Turkey if necessary. Now, well, they're here, what are they doing? All those people came to the country, what's he doing? I, for one, want to share them. Projects that compete with the world, are our pride, and carry us into the future have been signed. In what areas? Just a few things I'm going to talk about one at a time. Research development and support programmes have also been created in space, in the field of defense, in health, energy, environment, transport, and IT, as well as scholarship opportunities. What's done? We're talking about 8,000 RD projects, my very dear friends -- 8,000 RD projects -- and we've supported 2.5 billion grants here. We've provided 525 million dollars for 169 projects, especially in order to provide the needs of public institutions and institutions, to ensure more effective, more efficient work. We've provided 1 billion support for the 7,000 projects of researchers at universities. In the last ten years, we've given $111,000 students, a master's degree, a PhD, a $500 million scholarship. Well, it's not just talk; it's done by setting such big goals on one side, but also by separating resources on the other. As we look at it, we have two domestic satellites -- Skyturk-2 and Rasat. With these, we can get images from all over the world. Furthermore, Turkey has moved to its class of countries capable of making its own satellite.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0034par0064	But the truth is, the wages are low.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0033par0065	I'm not. On the other hand, when we looked at the field of defense, we increased the Turkish Armed Forces' strike force with high-tech projects again. On the one hand, we've built a real-time operating system, a national navigation missile, a concrete driller, a smart bomb, missile fuel, a laser-guided missile detector so that the Turkish Armed Forces can meet their needs and continue to strengthen their position around the world, and we've also been selling projects in NATO countries. I'll admit, in a lot of other areas, we've been able to talk about the energy field, the wind energy on one side, the solar energy on the other, and we've been helping to develop projects about coal gas on the other, and we've been able to save resources, and...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0035par0068	Did he do college or ASELSAN?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0033par0069	...and we're also seeing that they're coming out. We read about it in the papers this weekend, and in 2017 our own car will be on our way.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0035par0071	We talked about college, we talked about college's salary; you're talking about ASELSAN.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0033par0072	We too hope that the arrangement for the salaries of teachers will come as soon as possible.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0036par0073	Eleven years have passed.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0033par0074	Now I've shared with you all what we've done over time that the wages they've been paid are far less than they deserve. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0037par0077	Thank you. Oğuz Oyan, İzmir MP who has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0038par0080	Mr. President, good lawmakers, the first clause in the rights of university professors, university assistants may come to mind as salaries, but it's not just that. Today, a very important problem in universities is job security. In particular, it's a job guarantee for those in extreme status - the research worker or assistant professor. Even if you increase wages without guaranteeing this job, you will not be able to provide academic freedom. So raise the salary, you can finally do the job. Therefore, the guarantee of minimum autonomy, which should be in a university, is the guarantee of work. This is a work guarantee, and the research staff is defined differently. The same public service in terms of its qualifications, according to Law 2547, as if some of the researchers were 50/d students, or scholarship students. Such discrimination among those who do the same kind of work is something that needs to be corrected. So if you want to give a scholarship to graduate students as a scholarship, separate it, it's a separate category, but if you hire as a research officer and you get all those services done, sometimes you can't define it differently -- including reading paper from the exam watcher, between the two. So once we're dealing with a definition problem, we're dealing with a definition problem. And let's say, of course, how much does teaching membership, such as job security, professors, and professors, also apply to staffs with solid status? Here and here, there are certain pressures and control mechanisms on professors and professors, especially in rural universities, where they have not reached an academic level of maturity, and there are also some pressures and control mechanisms on these staffs in places that still consider a hierarchical state official. I mean, think about it, when a department has its professors, its department heads, it's being appointed from the outside, and the dean of a faculty is being appointed from the outside, and even though you don't need it, what you're looking for here is the criteria for ideological closeness with power, just like when they appoint the chancellor. If you try to turn a university into a university with these ideological connections, if you try to form the executive staff of the university like this, there won't be a university, not even the high schools of our era, so it doesn't have that kind of sense of education. Yeah, well, there are other pressure control mechanisms. The academics' editorial activities are being audited, audited by the academics' rights to enlighten the public from a certain point of view. No, no, you've been there without permission, and I'm investigating you, and I've got a lot of written motions on these things. I mean, what kind of a college concept is that? I mean, what he does is he participates in academic activity, and you've joined him without permission. Of course, university professors also have the right to organize, which is indirectly interfering with organizational rights. I mean, here's to that association, here's to the teaching staff union... anyway, it's not the teaching staff union, it's where I hang out now because I'm the secretary general of the former teaching staff union. Now, if there's pressure on certain lecturers on the grounds that he's involved in these union activities, then I'm sorry, but there's no concept of college here. I mean, of course, not to mention a variety of mobbing apps on employees that apply to university employees. Look, my dear friends, the university has a very important staff problem, so let's agree on that. This staff isn't limited to investigators, but it's most important to them. One, because they're not equal status; two, because there's not enough staff. Since there's no staff in many episodes today, the departments can't feed below, especially if they're isolated. A doctoral student who just came into my room is making Hungarian. Hungarian only exists in Ankara, the Faculty of Language and History-Geography, Hungarian philology. No recruits, no recruits. So, how are they going to feed? If you don't have the staff to take the qualified employee, how are you going to be able to hand over the department to the next generation, feed it? It's not just for these, it's for all the ranks. He's an assistant professor, he can't be a professor because he doesn't have a staff, he can't be a doctor, he can't be an assistant professor because he doesn't have a staff, he can't be a professor because he's a professor, he can't be a professor because he's an assistant professor, or because he's a professor because he's not a resident, or because he doesn't have a staff, or because he doesn't have a staff, or because he doesn't have a staff, he's just, you know -- let's open the pleasure of it -- through certain intimacy -- the departments, major science. Such a situation, my dear friends, is not the work of a government concerned about creating a scientific society. If we want to create a scientific society, if our problem is to create a scientific society, then we need to do the opposite of that, which is that we need to be in the opposite effort, in this staff, in the job security, in the redefining of all those statuses, and undoubtedly in the human-lived level of salaries. I mean, it's the only way we can raise a qualified academic, but we can have the peace of handing over our future, the future of the university to people who are so grown up, qualified staff, but it's not just about colleges. So organizations such as TÜBİTAK, TÜBA are also important institutions to do scientific research in Turkey, but even seeing how close to power there is to power in them makes us very sad and very desperate for the future. My dear friends, if we want to become a scientific society, we're going to give enough funds to college professors. And since my friends who just talked about it, I'm talking less about it. But look, I'll tell you something, and I'll give you a comparison between 2001 and 2013: the assistant professor, professor, professor and research workers' salaries are behind in the increase in domestic revenues in 2001 and 2013. So, basically, the AKP period, when it looks like it has dropped 7.2 times its GDP here, the professor's salary has increased by 5 times, 4 times its salary, 4 times its attention, one of the only assistant professors has been 5.2 times its salary. I mean, we're talking about a significant corrosion. So, we're talking about real income wear-off or a relative decline in the power to actually buy, we're talking about a loss of prosperity, we're talking about relative poverty. Look, I'll give you an example: compare a doctor to a doctor, my co-ed, in 2001, he gets almost 30 percent more; now you're coming to 2013, where the skim gets about 35 percent more than the professor. Here, I have many other examples. I mean, it doesn't change if you compare it to any ordinary officer's salary. For example, the research worker's income of the assistant professor is twice as high as a teacher's, while in 2001, about half of it is now reduced to its level. So, here, these conditions should be corrected, pension conditions should be improved, equal salary increase in the same job brought in 2011 has left the university out, should be done immediately, and these pay levels should be at least equal to the increase in national income and then new understandings should be formed in this sense. Assistants must be redefined. An assistant agency should be replaced by an investigator. The application of medical school students to work at the clinic or in the research mission must be changed. They are employed without rights to self-restraint. Scientific research activities should be described as a labor process, and it should be redesigned in this way. Therefore, we support this motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0039par0094	Thank you. Tülay Kaynarca, İstanbul MP, has asked for a statement against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0040par0097	Mr. President, I have been sworn in against the nationalist Action Party group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, the group's proposal is of course an important topic on the rights of academics. So far, from every political party speaking, taking a stand, our valued lawmakers have discussed it in detail. Our Muğla MP Yüksel Özden in particular expressed his detailed views, which he pointed out, expressed the difference about the point of yesterday that came today, and offered his proposals in it. Today, we predict a discussion of the law proposal regarding HSYK. I want to draw attention to that. This is the Law Proposal 523 and will be discussed as the basic law. In the vision of meeting this proposal, which will be discussed in both departments, 47 articles, I say that I have expressed my opinion against the MHP group proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0041par0101	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0042par0102	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit03spe0041par0103	I'm going to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes, but I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't... the MPs, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0041par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the nationalist movement group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to submit the proposal to your votes again, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree to the proposal... Those who don't agree... There's enough to make a decision. The proposal was not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council's 21/01/2014 meeting on Tuesday (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 17/01/2014 by Antalya MP Gürkut Acar and his friends, the Parliamentary research motion for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to investigate the extent of public damage and corruption is 1234 rows (1234 rows). lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations on Tuesday 21/01/2014 and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. In favour of the Republican People's Party group proposal, Gurkut Acar, Antalya MP.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0043par0016	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on our proposal to investigate the extent of public harm and corruption, to establish an effective system that will reduce public harm. I salute you. Dear friends, the main issue that Turkey has actually lived for a very long time is the lack of control over operations involving four AKP ministers and their children on December 17th, followed by the Prime Minister's son's call to testify. There will be abuse, corruption, robbery, extortion in areas where there is no quality control, no control mechanisms. Corruption cannot be prevented in an environment where the Court reports are subsidized, where there is not even a shred of information on the audit except the legislation. ▪ The people have chosen us, and no one else can supervise us. I don't answer to any institutions, and my men don't answer either. The understanding of Turkey today has brought Turkey to a severe state crisis, a picture where the rule of rule of law and rule of law is matted underfoot, where the principle of separation of forces is bent and the principle of separation is bent, where the police have not carried out a court decision. This is the process of Turkey. You've led Turkey to a cliff, my dear friends. There will surely be a price, and you will pay it. My dear friends, democracy does not function by raising its hand in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, covering everything, without the mechanisms of control and control, there is no democracy. Do you have these? No. There's a president, he approves of whatever comes his way. The Turkish Parliament has passed a law that destroys the rule of law. It does not say, "How could this happen?" Privatisation is being transformed into an area where the judiciary doesn't operate. You can't give away $2 billion worth of Oymapınar in Seydişehir. He said, "You can't give off the SECA land, the ports, the ports, the TUPRASH. " He said to stop at about $10 billion in public damage, but the President approved the law, which says, "Don't apply these court decisions." The President must consider the annulments of the Constitutional Court, thinking, "What am I doing?" The President has no control. Well, does the House have control? I don't have that either. The Parliament Speaker is merely overseeing the motions of opposition MPs, opposition to the opposition, you can't ask that. The most important rule of democracy is to pay every penny of the taxpayer's tax. It's the Parliament that makes the budget, and it's the Parliament that has to answer for it, and it's just watching. The court sends the blank papers as a report, and there's nothing from the council. I looked, there's a 15-page article about an institution, and there's not a word of information in the article except by the law. So you write 15 pages so you don't say anything? So it's a waste of 15 pages of paper. I asked him how much money was spent on these wasted papers? The entire court did not answer for it, and he sent me an article, ▪ It is not very high. There's a court that can't even account for his own reports. The Court can't account for it, but it tries to account for the Prime Minister's covert grant, says: "Employment allowance is being paid, so it's up to this much, it's not spent that much." What a covert fund! Does the Court have the authority to oversee and examine covered funds? No. You won't say a word about matters of authority, but you will defend the Prime Minister's covert funding. There's no such inspection! That's how you ruined a hundred and fifty years of court. President, no Parliament, do you allow the control of the opposition? No, you've been denying every issue about corruption that's been on the agenda here for years, about lack of supervision. The motions are not answered, and you have made the law a mat, and you have made a hole in the Law of Public Contraction, and you have heeded no warning. So what I said was, the whistle I played. You covered everything up with your understanding. My dear friends, no President, no Parliament, no opposition. So, is there a judgment check? You destroyed it, too. I have just told you, even though we have warned you, you have passed the law against the Constitution, so that court decisions may not be carried out knowingly. You've tried prosecutors before the defendants in the Lighthouse case. You said to my people, you can't touch my relatives. Is such a system called a state of law? Can you talk about judicial control in such an environment? You also destroyed the media's control by changing the ownership structure of the press with tax fines. It is reported that funds have been created for the media to change hands, money collected from businessmen. As the Prime Minister spoke, dozens of journalists who praised you until yesterday were out of work. You sentenced Turkey to last place in the freedom of the press league. You also destroyed civil society control, dear friends. You turned the tax audit into a weapon, you put it on the businessmen. You're trying to intimidate and silence unions, such as the Association for Supporting Modern Life, which strives to raise bright generations for Turkey. You're trying to contain Turkey's engineers, architects, by the freaking law of the coup d'état of September 12th. So, you've targeted every institution that criticizes the work and actions of power, oversees it, and you've tried to create yourself a garden of roses without thorns. We said no law, no justice, no safety, no safety. Where there's no legal security, where there's no justice, there's nothing standing, you didn't listen. Now, you're saying, you're saying, you're saying, you're saying, you're saying, you're saying, you're saying, you're saying, you're saying, you're saying, you're saying, you're saying, you're saying, you're saying, you're Muammar Güler, who resigned because of corruption, says: "I am complaining that there have been additions to the hills. " I am complaining that people here in Ergenekon, in Balyoz, were laughing under the moustache, and now I am a reporter. So, he says that the police are not acting in accordance with the laws and regulations. He conspires against innocent people, he plots, he plots. Home Secretary. How is it, my dear friends, that the police are trapped in a state of law, conspiring, adding to the deeds? If he is, he is personally responsible for Mr. Home Secretary. It is the Justice and Development Party's government that must answer for this, its ministers. You've put all the institutions in the AKP, and you've emptied them, you've rotted them, because that's what we're going to do. The only way out of this decay is by law, to learn from mistakes, to apologize to the public, to answer to them, but in the AKP's power, it's clear that you don't have that understanding. The prime minister is attacking with a clear understanding that the four ministers and their children are able to cover up corruption and bribery involving their own son, Bilal Erdogan, in order to intercept the corruption investigation leading to his own son. The HSYK proposal is a step forward. Justices and Prosecutors do not provide law and justice by linking the High Council to the Minister of Justice, therefore to the Prime Minister. We've always said that judgment is influenced by the power of power, not by the speech of the opposition. Even now, you see the Minister's authority. Look at what's happened, six people from HSYK are being examined. He says, "I won't allow three people." He says, prosecutors are being thrown around like ankle cotton, the court's supervision, audits and measures are being lifted by prosecutors' writings. Where's that kind of law, that kind of judgment? How can a court's discretion be lifted with the signature of a newly appointed prosecutor? Why are there courts, my dear friends, if there's work to be done with prosecutors' articles? Our President-General announced a report at our group meeting today. It's a terrifying report, an example of interference in the judiciary. You know how they say there's a document? Here's the document. Kenan Silk, sitting in the position of Attorney General of the Ministry of Justice, calls a prosecutor in the middle of the night, a member of the HSYK, trying to instruct the Attorney General. You're going to stop the investigation, you're going to change the prosecutor. He says, "You're going to suffer the consequences." This report is the death sentence of the state of law and the independence of the judiciary. No one is safe in Turkey anymore. The Prime Minister and the AKP are the only ones responsible for this. Dear friends, the Prime Minister has proven himself not a statesman. He transformed the corruption investigation into a state crisis in which the Constitution has destroyed the rule of law, the principle of separation of forces, the independence of courts. The Prime Minister says that my son, my children, is doing charity work. Businessmen line up, municipalities line up, the prime minister's son donates money to charity, state assets, municipalities, buildings are allocated to the foundation. My dear friends, look, Jonah Emre says: ▪ The rich without labor, And as for him who hath knowledge of the Scripture, His guide has become the devil. The Prime Minister doesn't have to reject his son, just send him to court... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Just let the law work, just let justice happen, that's what's wanted, that's what's expected. My dear friends, when you make a law to save the day, to cover up a corruption, it'll be a crippled law. There's no justice and there won't be one. The only way out of this crisis is through law. Any place that comes with a lack of law is destruction. You're leading Turkey into destruction. My dear friends, by finishing, I say that the amendment of the HSYK Law here is the complete elimination of the law in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0044par0041	Mr. Acar, thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0043par0042	I hope you'll vote well for our motion to investigate public harm and corruption, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0045par0044	Mr. President, Mr. Gürkut spoke very heavily about the AKP Group. I think you'd better make a promise! He spoke too harshly.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0044par0045	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, İdris Şahin, Çankırı MP.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0046par0048	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party group proposal, and I salute your grand delegation. First of all, you've all come to appreciate that, aside from the issues expressed in the motion to investigate, you've all been told that the agenda of the last year is very different and very different. However, I would still like to answer briefly from this platform what they have expressed in their research motion. Dear President, respected MPs, the CHP group's proposal claims that because an active control system in Turkey cannot be desiccated, public damage and corruption has increased, the structure of the control units that need to be independent has been changed are completely unfounded, based on concrete information and evidence. The most important example for the override of the audit is the claim that the Court reports, which contain no information about the audit without the knowledge of the legislation, were sent to MPs. The allegations do not reflect the truth. The Court, in its written statement on its website, gave clear information to the public about the contents of the Court reports sent to parliament, contrary to the opposition party's claims. The Court has stated that the Court is carrying out its duties in accordance with the procedures and principles laid out by law and international standards, and that the Constitution has submitted reports provided by the 160th article and laws to the Grand National Assembly at the full and precise time. The Court shall prepare two separate reports. One is the main report to the trial, which is that these reports are not being sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Public harm involves personal responsibility. Under the law, it is not possible for these reports to be sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and to be announced publicly. The second is that the institutions contain financial audit reports. The financial audit reports of institutions prepared by the Court audit groups will be passed through certain quality and control, the assessment of the Report Evaluation Commission, the answers of the audited institutions, after the opinion of the Court's relevant office and Report Evaluation Agency is received, and will be submitted to the Supreme Assembly of Turkey as president. The financial audit reports of institutions offered to the Turkish Grand National Assembly state the opinion of the institution's financial transactions and system's compliance with international standards. In addition, there are signs of systematic compatibility at a institutional level. Public harm claims about personal responsibility are not included in this report. The audit report and the Court report are clearly stated in the separate reports. The audit reports prepared by the auditors and the Court reports submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are of different purpose and quality. The audit report and the Court report are defined separately. The audit report contains a report prepared by audit group presidents and auditors as a result of audits and inspections, based on the Court's reports. The Court's report, as a result of audits and inspections, is expressed by the Court's president, the report submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey or sent to public administrations. Court reports according to Court Law 6085 are: Public administration report, external audit general assessment report, action general assessment report, fiscal statistics assessment report and general fitness notification. It has been made clear that all of these reports will be submitted to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, as well as that the Court's reports will be submitted to the public from the day it was presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. All responsibilities born of the Law and the Constitution have been fully fulfilled by the Court, and the allegations are to wear off the Supreme Court, a constitutional institution, and to spread the word that the so-called control institutions for our rule have not done their duty. However, the objections and the critiques were expressed during all budget talks, and our nation was able to watch these allegations live. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are not all institutions for the control system which were established in accordance with the Constitution and are committed during our rule. As alleged, there is no problem with their practice. In our time of power, poverty, corruption and bans have been meticulously addressed, and a most effective battle has been waged, and the work is still being carried out with great precision. The argument that the House does not control itself is that the congressman denies himself. Because one of the people who followed the full General Assembly during budget talks and brought the most severe criticism to the budget is our valued congressman. The control of corruption can't be done by Parliament, but it can only be done by judicial supervision. In this regard, the independent judiciary is doing its duty. I don't think it's possible to talk about public harm in our power. Because, to the extent that we're talking about public harm, in a society this serious, what will public investments be done by our power for 11 years and earned the recognition of our entire nation? The allegations that there has been a violation of the speech of the judge and the principle of violation of the forces are abstract and claimable. We have repeatedly stated in your presence that in matters that are strictly and certainly in the service of independent judiciary, and in particular in cases of the 138th Amendment of the Constitution, none of our parliamentarians will express their opinion on a matter that falls within the jurisdiction of the judiciary and in no way interfere with the judiciary. In the next process, it is imperative that everyone knows very clearly that we share the same sensibilities as the AK PARTI government. I believe that an indictment and argument is irrelevant, just as a parliamentary research commission should be established in order for effective and transparent audits to be conducted. For it is clear that effective control can be carried out in this way, if our Constitutional institutions are able to act without any influence, neutral and independent. In particular, these issues have been carried out by the independent judiciary in the recent investigation of allegations of corruption involving politicians and relatives. It's absolute that if there's a way for Parliament to investigate this, there will be far more serious consequences in the next process. Because, in this case, an act can constitute an intervention in the independence of the judiciary. The tender, which was held in 2005, was cancelled by the State Department in 2007, so as he said, there is no lack of control. The judiciary has cancelled a tender which is alleged not to be carried out in accordance with the procedure, but due to the fact that it is impossible to get it back legally, a legal arrangement in this direction has led to a solution to the problem. Parliament is the solution. Of course, it is within the scope of the great Parliament's mandate to arrange a situation that is clearly inconclusive with a judicial decision. Other than that, I'd like to say that we'll vote against the inquiry motion because the issues expressed in the research motion are entirely independent of the ongoing judiciary, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0047par0062	Thank you. Republican People's Party group proposal...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0048par0064	He teased me, sir. I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0049par0065	Can he explain why he's picking on you?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0047par0066	We will, just a second. Not so fast. Here you are, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0050par0068	Mr. President, he's taunting me by giving my name, saying that I personally supervised him.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0047par0069	No, what did he say, Mr...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0050par0070	Sir, he said that he himself was the opposition during the budget, and he did very well to control it. That's not telling the truth.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0047par0071	Don't be coy...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0050par0072	I'd like the word, Mr. President, that he's saying things that aren't true. He's made a statement against the truth, Mr. Speaker.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0047par0073	I'll have the records brought in, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0050par0074	Yes, please...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0047par0075	How do they have an incontrovertible statement? I'll give it to you if there's a tease.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0050par0076	Sir...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0047par0077	Yeah, I'm getting the transcripts. Republican People's Party group...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0050par0079	But I'll explain why you're going against the truth, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0047par0080	Mr. Acar, I understand, I'll get the transcripts, I'll look into it, I promise, if there's any bullying involved.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0050par0081	He makes it sound like he said something I didn't say.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0047par0082	The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0051par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of the Republican People's Party's proposal to investigate the dimensions of public damage and corruption, I have pledged to present the views of the National Party of Action. I hereby salute the grand jury. It's possible to call it public damage, that's the first side; the second side, it's possible to deal with the extent of corruption. There are times when they're both together. The public is losing, the bureaucrat, the negotiator, the politician, the interested company, the individuals. Everyone wins, but the public's hurting, everyone involved. When you consider the extent of corruption, it's open, it's shameless, it's ominous, it's an event that means robbing both the state and the nation. In the bedroom, safes, shoeboxes, dollars in rows of boxes, you have to see how it stacks there. This motion was submitted on January 17th, on the anniversary of the corruption incident. There's talk of Sejdişehir Aluminum, there's talk of Oymapınar, there's talk of the General Directorate of Highways... there's nothing in the Court reports, there's no public harm... If it hadn't been for December 17th, maybe today it wouldn't have come up at this level, we'd have been discussing another case, but corruption has gone public, but it's become very clear, even though it hasn't fallen off the agenda. In this period, corruption as a vision in the country run by the AKP is also a major event, and it is one of the leading leaders of these issues. The symbols include bedrooms, cash registers, counting machines, shoe boxes, packed dollars. I'm not talking to anyone to get them into trouble, and I'm not talking to them. There's no way to describe public harm, corruption... what could happen to a human being. If it's done on purpose, it means stealing people's property, with no dignity, bad luck. God forbid, it's not easy, it's infecting the child and the environment. It's been expressed before, however, from father to son, from son to father, about whether it's genetic or not. See, when you consider what former Minister of Environment Erdogan Bayraktar Bey said on TV, we see that he's going straight to the beginning. Why would he trouble the Prime Minister, who he's worked with for years? So there's a problem, there's an incident, which means he's pointing it at the Prime Minister himself. I, myself, am a person who asked Mr. Erdogan if he had been tied up while he was a minister, I really wondered, but as things grew, we began to see what it meant, what we were doing together. Stealing, corruption is not an easy thing, it is prepared when the environment is available, it creates political power, and new terms form: ▪ parallel structure, ▪ the guardianship of justice, ▪ the coup d'état, the coup d'état. Of course, I did it. He won't say I did it. They ask the thief who fell into the prison: "What is the crime??" He says something too, what is he saying? Of course, no one will say that he has committed theft or corruption. But people can prevent you from asking your cabinet mate, your friend at the party, what those dollars were, how they got there, it's not easy. But we didn't do it, it came from somewhere else. It was going to be used in the construction of the mosque. I think it's not a good thing to put an off-the-book job into something that would be lawful. Now, the AKP has made this work parallel to the coups. Here, I see, there are ministers. You have to say, as a parallel structure consultant -- Ahmet, Mehmet, Hussein, Hasan, or something like that -- the unit of the police, the unit of the judiciary, and so on; otherwise there's no point in trying to cheat citizens in this way, with the perception management that the citizen doesn't know what it is. If there was a parallel structure, it was formed at the end of the 11-year AKP rule period. If the AKP realized this at the end of the 11th year, at the end of the 12th year, the AKP is already not running the country, it is already sleeping standing. Now, what happens when the same judges, the same judges, the same prosecutors, get people from their homes -- and there's part of them in the House -- is that when these operations are done, when they're tried, they're considered perfectly normal, even defended -- I don't want to go into the AKP's situation, unfortunately, they're parallel structures. Custody, new custody. So you were with someone, you were with someone, you escaped this custody, you got out; a new custody took place, created by the AKP's co-operation in the time of its rule. Look, I'm a friend of yours who received about 1,200 text messages during the closing of the classrooms. A lady said, in 2010 this AKP deceived me. I went house to house, asked for a vote on the referendum. There's going to be a cleaning -- he doesn't know HSYK -- but that's why I went around. They beat me up at the doors. I had trouble with the doors. They ruined my ideals, ruined my thoughts. Now, no matter where you look, we've heard of a moment when the mediators needed wet-signed letters -- God forbid. Those who go to the U.S. are wet-signed, offering letters to the government or to the President. If the negotiators here, the people who met in Bursa, if what the prosecutor said is true, I don't know, then what do they want, what do they want? Wet signature. So the wet signature is very important. When you sell the fake signature as a wet signature, then you come to the army. They set it up. You say. Where's that schemer? I tweeted that he tweeted 140 characters about what he said, explaining it for three days. A citizen tweeted, and he said: "I have not seen one of those 140 characters. " Now, when you consider it that way, you see that the work is extremely troubling. There's no sense of insolence, no nerve, no ill omen, no sense of ill-fatedness. What will happen if you are judged according to the rules set by that HSYK? There shouldn't be a problem with that. I've made a commitment in favor of the motion, and I wish the motion to be supported. I pay my respects. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0052par0100	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Salih Koca, Eskişehir MP.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0053par0103	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies have made a commitment against the Republican People's Party Group proposal, and I salute your grand delegation. The Justice and Development Party is a party that has come to this day from its very first day. Throughout our rule, we have struggled with poverty, corruption, and bans. We have struggled that we have performed services that have not been done for 80 years in our ten years and eleven years in power. In particular, moves made in the area of the road, services that have been made, indeed, come to us as services that have passed the age of our country. If there were corruption, we'd be on a double road that's 6,100 kilometers...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0054par0105	It'd be 10,000 kilometers.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0053par0106	... It wouldn't have added another 10,000 miles of double road and gone up to 25,000 kilometers.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0055par0107	But if you hadn't stolen it, it would have been 50 grand.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0053par0108	If there were corruption, we wouldn't have had double routes all over our city, our country. If there were corruption, our debt to the IMF would not have been reset.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0056par0109	You sold the savings of the Republic, paid with it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0053par0110	Our currency reserves wouldn't have gone from $27.5 billion to $135 billion.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0056par0111	You sold all the factories of the republic for 52 billion dollars.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0053par0112	We're looking at double roads today, and we're dealing with tunnels and art structures.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0057par0113	The shoebox...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0053par0114	We are safely providing transportation between our cities. Hence, serious steps have been taken at this time regarding corruption in municipalities again. Today only 1,812 municipalities of the EC PARTY were granted pre-examines, and 708 municipalities were allowed to investigate. While fighting corruption, bans and corruption, we have struggled with it before, as in previous times, without seeking the forgiveness of Rahshan and without a number of pardons for corruption.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0058par0117	Tell me about the sack of clothes!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0053par0118	We stand up, stand up straight, and now with our upright stance, we earn the grace of our people.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0058par0119	Just tell me the dollars from the clothescase. Tell me about the shoe box!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0053par0120	Therefore, I say we are against the motion to investigate, and I hereby salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0059par0122	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0060par0123	Can you look me in the face and tell me there's no theft? Can you say we didn't steal it? You can't!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0061par0124	You sold all of the Republic's savings, we paid with it. You say.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0062par0125	Mr. Orator has given the Parliament false information, both public and public.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0063par0126	He doesn't have to give you the information you want.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0062par0127	Mr. President, one, the police have been relieved of duty as if there were no corruption.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0064par0128	Mr. Tanal, every member of parliament will speak up, sir, and you have no right to correct it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0062par0129	Look, the cops have been relieved of duty. I don't think any of this is...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0065par0130	I'm sorry for the inconvenience!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0066par0131	You've disturbed people by stealing and clapping!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0067par0132	I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have studied and processed...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0068par0134	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0067par0135	...and I'll vote for you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0068par0136	Sir, the Justice and Development Party...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0067par0137	Mr. Vural, if you'd like to hear the proposal, then I'll make a promise, and I'll ask. Let's hear the proposal.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0068par0138	Yes, sir. Yes, sir. I mean, before you read the proposal... because I don't think you should process it, but...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0067par0140	But let's read the proposal, and then I'll promise again, so relax. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 21/01/2014 meeting Tuesday (now), I would like to propose that the following proposal be submitted to the General Assembly's approval under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's 523, 385 and 266 proposals, which are included in "The Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions," are to be taken to the third and fourth and fifth places, and the order of other tasks is to be measured accordingly. On Tuesday, January 21, 2014, the unspoken questions were not discussed. On Saturdays 25th and 26 January 2014, and on Sundays 14th, except on weekdays. Meeting at 00 p.m. to discuss business in the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions," Until the meeting of Tuesday, January 21, 2014 (today), until the meeting of the Legislature, number 459, was completed, Until the meeting of Wednesday (January 22nd 2014), until the meeting of the 63rd Bill of Laws, Until the meeting of Thursday (January 23, 2014), until the meeting of the 162nd Amendment, Until Friday, January 24, 2014, when the talks were completed until the 335th Bill of Law, in its merger on Friday (January 24, 2014), Until the meeting of Saturday (January 25, 2014), until the meeting of the Law Bill, number 230, was completed, Until Sunday, January 26, 2014, when the negotiations of the works were completed until Bill No. 120 in the merger of Sunday, It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. In the event that the daily schedule is incomplete at 00 p.m., it will continue its work until the day program is completed. The Law Proposal 523 was proposed to be considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, and to have its sections in the accompanying form. The Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws [[2/1929]] Chapters Partial Matters Matters Numbers of Matters in Sections Chapter 1 - Article 24 Chapter 2 (Tempor 4 and 23 of Article 42)
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0069par0169	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0067par0170	Yes, Mr. Vural, please. Why don't you sit down and we'll get the system open?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0069par0174	It's okay. Mr. President, this report has been transferred by the Speaker of Parliament to both the Constitutional Commission and the Plan and Budget Commission. Later, at the request of the Speaker of Parliament, the Constitutional Commission is presented with respect to the High President to be sent to the Justice Commission, which is our report, which is the main commission, according to a report, in order to meet on the 20th. Therefore, this report of the Constitutional Commission is not included in this Commission report. So while this report, which is required by the transfer as a commission, should be compiled here, unfortunately, this report referred to the Justice Commission was not the main issue. So since it's an unresolved report, there's no way they're going to be able to discuss it today. Our request from you is that by compiling this report to this number of Justice Commissions, all commissions must be informed by Turkish Parliamentary Assembly MPs with a full report. You'll appreciate that we're discussing the report, and since we've discussed the report, the report is essential. In this regard, it is not possible for us to discuss the Justice and Development Party's request for this discussion at this stage. Because it's already gathered at the request of the Speaker, and the Constitutional Commission has decided on the 21st. This report, which he received in 21, was referred to the Justice Commission, not included. In this regard, sir, we believe that it is impossible for the Justice and Development Party to consider this proposal today, and that the Speaker of Parliament should renegotiate the report on this issue and distribute it to lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0070par0177	Yes, thank you. Mr. Tütin, please, you have a request.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0071par0180	Mr. President, the devil is involved in the rush. This bill - looking proposal is similar to talks in the past, such as the natural - looking Falcon. This is a law proposal made with a directive, but when you look at page 47 of the report, it says "Admission of the Justice Commission" on the right-hand line, as well as the Proposition of the MP Yilmaz junc and 77 MPs. The truth is... it's written right on page 47. When you turn to page 48, the left-hand column says "The Metin," which the government proposes, says 49, and in 50, it says "The Text, which the government proposes," and in 51, it says "The Text Again," which the government proposes." This text is not a text offered by the government; it is a missing procedure, which has crippled the law, misinformation it. The will here, in law, in this proposal, is not the will of the Council of Ministers, it is not the will of the government, it is the will of Yilmaz Bronze and 77 MPs, it is a law proposal. The General Assembly has been misinformed, the General Assembly has been misinformed. The job that should be in a law state is to withdraw and reprint it, but if it's on the Prime Minister's orders, then close it with a initial, collect it, and have officers wipe it out in the back, send the Speaker of Parliament. In the state of law, this law is invisible. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0070par0182	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0072par0185	Mr. President, thank you. Now, when we look at Proposition 523's Justice Commission Report, on page 15 of the report, we have the exact statement: "The proposal the Commission is taking on the agenda was transferred simultaneously to the Constitutional Commission and the Plan Budget Commission. Both commissions have reported to the Commission that they will not take the proposed proposal on the agenda of our commission. • Now, according to the 26th Amendment of our Interior Charter, the Constitutional Commission has formed its opinion yesterday that the Commission should not be discussed in the Commission without a meeting of the Commission with a third of its members. In accordance with Article 26 of the Interior Charter, lawmakers have requested the commission's agenda, the commission's request for a commission to be taken, but members of the Commission have submitted a request to the Commission concerning the meeting of the Commission on the day of which the commission will be held, which is contrary to Article 26 of the Interior Charter. It is not appropriate to claim that the proposal that we are currently discussing is not discussed because of a mistake from a text proposed by the government in the form of a material text proposed by the government. There is no reason for this offer to be discussed at this time.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0073par0188	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0072par0189	It is already in the title of the law, and if they look at page 47, it is also referred to as the Proposal of MP Yilmaz junc and 77 MPs. I present the situation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0074par0191	What is written on pages 48, 49, 50?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0075par0192	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0076par0193	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0075par0194	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0076par0195	The Constitutional Commission says that the proposal was met to discuss after the call of nine commissioners.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0075par0196	Mr. Vural, let's do this...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0077par0197	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0075par0198	One moment, Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0078par0199	So it's clearly written here to be sent to the Justice Commission. That's the decision of the commission. This commission report has to go in here because the MPs here don't know about it either. It's only in the Constitutional Commission. As the main commission of the Justice Commission, it must compile this report. That's the point.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0075par0200	Thank you. I've already listened to your objections to make the matter clear -- I'm opening a discussion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0079par0203	In favor, sir, in favor...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0080par0204	Against...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0081par0205	Lehte...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0082par0206	No, you'll get along. In one favor, one against, four parties, each party will have a speaker.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0083par0207	Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0082par0208	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0083par0209	It's not right for you to start a procedural debate now.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0084par0210	You can't have a resen, you know, a procedural debate.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0082par0211	Just a second, members of the law... Mr. Tanal, please...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0085par0213	Why not? Because this was done by the president of the House's initiative, and the commission has been convened. There is no report of a transfer commission based on the president's initiative. When you open a formal debate, without a report, even though it was sent to the Justice Commission, when you open a procedure debate about something that was not included in the report, the commissions' report will come to light in the following meetings, which would be extremely wrong, when it's not in the principal commission, when it's not in the principal commission, when it's not in the main commission.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0082par0214	Yeah...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0086par0215	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0085par0216	Then the commission would be unnecessary.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0082par0217	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0086par0218	First of all, who asked for a formal debate?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0082par0219	No one wanted it, I want to open it on your objections.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0086par0220	Two...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0082par0221	So here's what we're gonna do.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0086par0222	Just a minute, sir...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0082par0223	I'll give you my opinion after...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0086par0224	Mr. President, wait a minute, wait a minute.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0082par0225	Yes, please.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0086par0226	You're the one who misinformation this issue, the Parliament...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0087par0227	How dare you vote!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0086par0228	...you can't pass on a bill from the government in the form of a statement that gives false information to Parliament by discussing procedure here.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0087par0229	Mr. President, I beg you!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0086par0230	It's invisible, it's that simple, it's invisible. What you need to do is not discuss the procedure, but take a break and consult with the bureaucrats.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0088par0231	I think so, too.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0087par0232	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0089par0233	I'll explain, sir, through your things. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0087par0235	Mr. Speaker has had his will in this matter, please.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0090par0236	I've also submitted a petition to the Speakership.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0087par0237	It's not right to ignore the Speaker's will. Look, at the will of the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, a commission has been convened and has issued this commission report. This report was not included in the number of rows. It's very clear. I'd like to ask you to set up a consultation mechanism before you rule out the moral character of Mr. Speaker.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0238	Yes, Mr. Vural. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0092par0240	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0241	...of Law Proposal 523...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0092par0242	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0243	...to the Mission Report... Just a moment, Mr. Tanal. The members of the group have spoken, and you have no right to say that, please.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0092par0245	Sir, I'm a congressman here too, so please, you can't do this, so here, look, we're reading Parliament law.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0246	But it's not like we're gonna promise everyone.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0092par0247	So you can't do this. There's a technical issue, about the technical issue that I'm a...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0248	Please.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0093par0249	Deputy President, look at me...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0092par0250	You're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0251	Some objections to the commission report and its text appear to have occurred.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0092par0252	Mr. President, you have to promise.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0094par0253	Isn't there a congressman's personality here, the congressman's personality?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0254	Due to the proposal and objections to the report...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0092par0255	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0094par0256	There's the deputy president of the group, you don't talk. You don't have the right to talk about it!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0257	...to the agenda of the proposal in question...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0092par0258	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0259	...and the basic law...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0095par0260	You have to promise my friend.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0261	...has not been suggested that the group proposal involved should not be processed.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0095par0262	You can't ignore a congressman. Stop talking like that! Yeah, put that speech away.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0096par0263	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0264	It's a bill on the agenda of our presidency, and I don't want to process...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0096par0265	Mr. President, since you didn't promise me...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0097par0266	You have to promise your congressman!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0267	...or return it to the commission.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0097par0268	There can't be such a president! You know how to sue, you know how to sue when we insult you!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0269	Objections on the report and the proposal are thought to be held during negotiations. Therefore, there is no violation of the Civil Code in discussing the group proposal.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0098par0270	Mr. President, you're being biased because you didn't promise me anything. I demand to open a legal debate according to 63.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0271	However, based on the importance of the issue, I would like to argue over the procedural objections of the constitutional commission's report, which should also be published and added to the report, and that the number of rows are not valid due to the misprintation of the proposal text.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0098par0272	Mr. President, since you didn't promise me...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0273	Here, give me your opinion. Ask for your word in favor or against it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0099par0274	Sir, look, I don't think you should...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0275	Yes, it's in favor, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0099par0277	I want it against you, but there's no point in doing all this.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0278	Against Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0099par0279	You're ignoring the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Shame on you, shame on you! That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0280	No, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0100par0281	Mr. President, I'd like to say something.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0282	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0100par0283	You're opening up a discussion on the speech of Mr. Vural. So, where are you going with my speech?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0284	Yes, I answer to you, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0100par0285	Yeah...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0286	It includes what you said, but also Proposal 2/1929 was printed on the cover of row 523 and on the first page of the proposal, with the title of Bartin MP Yilmaz Tunç and 77 MPs' Proposal. The column with the proposal on the following pages is published as a text proposed by the government. This financial error of printing has not been seen as an obstacle to distribution, the number of rows, as presidents. Talks on the General Assembly are made through the text adopted by the Commission. This error in the number of rows will be corrected and will be included in the Journal of Reports, Mr. Tünce.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0101par0287	Mr. President, the MPs...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0288	Mr. Tanal, please. Mr. Group Vice Presidents have made their objections.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0102par0289	Are you kidding me? Are you kidding me? You're kidding me.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0290	Please, Mr. Slim, what do you mean, you're kidding?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0103par0291	You're making fun of the Speaker.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0091par0292	That's not true in the General Assembly, Mr. Tüt.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0104par0293	You're making fun of Congress, you're making fun of it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0103par0294	What's the matter, you've already offered to evaluate yourself with your allies.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0104par0295	You're writing the bill here, you're making fun of it. Look, Mr. President, look, I'm showing you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0105par0297	Yeah...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0104par0298	Page 48 is wrong, 49 is wrong, 50 is wrong, 51 is wrong...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0106par0299	Well, what's true?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0107par0300	There's no right, there's no right!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0104par0301	...52 wrong, 53 wrong, 54 wrong, 55 wrong, 56 wrong, 57 wrong, 58 wrong, 59 wrong, 60 wrong, 61 wrong, 62 wrong, 63 wrong, 64 wrong, 65 wrong, 66. Guys, this 15- or 20 pages I've been counting have been misprinted. Look, you're swallowing it because he's got the lid right. Are you kidding me? Are you kidding me? That's not gonna happen! Not this text!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0108par0303	Yes, Mr. Slim... Mr. Elitaş, who wants to speak in favor...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0104par0305	Take this text! (AK PARTY WHISPERING) No way! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's no way to write!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0109par0307	Whoa!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0108par0308	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0104par0310	Don't make fun of us!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0108par0311	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0104par0312	Twenty pages wrong, twenty pages wrong!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0108par0313	In favor of a formal debate... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0104par0316	That's no way to write!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0110par0317	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0111par0321	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the ones who are now throwing the law proposal at stenographers and punching in rows...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0112par0322	Are you trying to be a hit man? I'm asking in a civilized way, are you a shooter? You're a hit man?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0113par0323	Please, Mr. Vural, Mr. Vural, these words don't suit you. They're being filed, sir. They'll be carried out.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0114par0325	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0112par0326	Shame on you! The Speaker is so...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0114par0327	Mr. President, look, you can't discriminate between MPs.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0112par0328	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0115par0329	...Let them show you which article of the Civil Charter. Let those who act in a real way, who punch in the rows, show that they have acted in accordance with what Article of the Civil Code, and tell this nation. Look, in Article 88 of the Constitution...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0116par0331	Congressmans, these kinds of shootings are damaging the electronic system. The electronic system is state property, it's a shame. Mr. Elistash, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0117par0333	Mr. President, you can't discriminate between MPs!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0118par0334	You represent the Speaker there. Shame on you! You're not bringing up a report on a commission gathered by the Speaker's will. Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0116par0335	Mr. Elitaş, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0119par0336	Mr. President, look, because of the financial error in the title...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0120par0337	Twenty pages wrong!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0119par0338	...to state that this law cannot be discussed in the General Assembly of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, that it cannot be brought to the agenda...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0121par0340	Shame on you! You're hit men, hit men! You're not lawyers!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0119par0341	...it's nothing more than a metaphor, because it's written in the text of the proposal of the law, as the Proposal of the Yilmaz Bronze and 77 Congressmans.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0121par0343	You're hit men, hit men! What are you gonna do? You're going to set up a prosecutor for Bilal...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0119par0344	They put it here as a title and expressed it as an offer accepted by the government.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0121par0345	You're gonna set me up with a judge? What are you going to do?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0119par0346	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0121par0347	Let's see your shoebox trick!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0122par0348	What size shoe box do you have, shoe box?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0119par0349	In accordance with what clause of the Civil Charter, do you see those shouting and punching in rows?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0122par0350	Tell me what size shoebox you have.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0123par0351	People are listening, Mr. Elitaş, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0119par0353	In what article of the Civil Code, those who are trying to teach us and you, do they mean something about punching the queue doors? Where can they show this?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0122par0354	Name your shoebox, your shoe box.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0119par0355	Those who have told us about the Civil Law are now engaged in violating the Civil Code. [[CHP, MHP, BDP rows of always knocking on rows, noise]] Dear lawmakers, look, the 88th article of the Constitution, the Council of Ministers and the MPs are authorized to offer a proposal, but in our Civil Code, it is stated that the bill can be submitted by the government and the law proposals by lawmakers. As a matter of fact, the main commissions are not obliged to adhere to the reports of the commissions. The main commissions are...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0122par0358	What size shoe box are you? Forget it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0119par0359	Each commission has the authority to set its own agenda.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0122par0360	Let him go!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0119par0361	One-third of a member of the Commission, not knowing the Civil Charter, made a joke in the Interior Charter, by reading the last sentence, with the authority of one-third of the MP to call the commission, and unfortunately, using the warrant, to consider the 48-hour term of the commission at this time, at this time, and today, the Constitutional Commission, this Commission, this report, this proposal, this proposal, by considering whether it is contrary to the Constitution. However, it is not the Constitutional Commission's duty to supervise whether each commission, or proposal or bill is in accordance with the Constitution, but the duty of each commission is its own. There's no blame on the agenda. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say we're in favor of the president's position, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0124par0365	Yes, thank you. Oktay Vural, Izmir MP who has made a promise against my conviction.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0125par0367	Mr. President, you can't discriminate between MPs.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0124par0368	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0125par0369	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0124par0370	Yeah...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0125par0371	Mr. President, you can't discriminate between MPs. There is no inferiority among MPs. I can only promise to the members of the group, not to the MPs, you say. This attitude of yours...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0124par0372	I didn't say that, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0125par0373	You did.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0124par0374	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0125par0375	I'm not making any promises. You said, it's against the rules. Because of your attitude, I would like to ask for a formal debate on the way to 63.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0126par0376	No, on what? Are you speaking according to the Civil Code?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0124par0377	Who will I promise to in the Civil Code, my lord?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0127par0378	Mr. President, what do I get to say?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0124par0379	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0127par0380	Mr. President, what do I get to say?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0124par0381	Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0128par0382	Friends, do any of you have any inferiority? We can't have it. It's against Parliament law. All MPs are equal. Please, take care of your rights.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0124par0383	Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0129par0384	How come you're here?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0124par0385	As you wish, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0129par0386	Mr. President, you're sitting there with the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in charge of your...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0124par0387	No, sir, if you look at the normal chart, sir, I'm on call.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0129par0388	The presidential court has ordered the deployment...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0124par0389	Mr. Vural, let's not personalize these matters, and I'll have my say.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0129par0390	I'm personalizing, personalizing.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0124par0391	I have words, too. Let's not get personal, please. You guys go ahead with what you said about my attitude.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0129par0392	Yes, you're standing here and representing the Speaker of Parliament with an assignment from the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Unfortunately, the Parliament Speaker's report on calling a meeting of the Constitutional Commission and the Constitutional Commission to hold a meeting and to bring it up on the agenda did not take place. This report is not complied. You don't have to be in such a hurry to smuggle stuff out of fire, to Bilal, the prosecutor, the judge; it's not your job. You will lead the House. We say that there are no reports of this number of Constitutional Commissions. Look, Mustafa Bey just said he wouldn't bring it up on page 15. Here, it shows that he's on the agenda. I mean, how... we're discussing the report. The Constitutional Commission here says that the call has been brought together to discuss this proposal. And in the end, it says: "This report is offered with respect to the High President to be sent to the Justice Commission, which is the primary commission, which is to be sent to the Justice Commission. " What have you done that the High President has offered you with respect? You'll do what's required of this report. What you need to do is clear and clear. I mean, don't use the House of Lawless. Do not use the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to cover up corruption and bribery. (Applause from MHP and CHP rows) Do not use these MPs. Let's do it right. A day from now, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. Please don't use these lawmakers to do such illegal things! This place has a spiritual personality. We've all come by the people's votes. Without placing the Commission report here, valuable MPs, the Constitutional Commission has gathered, send the report to the Justice Commission. He said, "This is not in the report of the Justice Commission; we will not report to one of them." He said, "We will not report an interview." So we have to do all this within the law, we have to do it within the rule of law.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0130par0395	There's no more, there's no more rule of law.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0131par0396	Law or law! It's gooey, gooey.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0129par0397	In this respect, Mr. Deputy Speaker, this is not the right, this is a critical issue, this is the President of the House. Look, the Speaker is the Speaker of all of us. So, please, my dear brothers, not by ignoring his will, not by moping.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0132par0399	So you're going to turn the Speaker of Parliament into a punching bag like Bulent Arinc! You're going to turn him into a punching bag like you did to him, Cemil Bey!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0129par0400	In that regard, I think this report should be reprinted and then negotiated. I'm against your attitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0133par0403	Thank you. Sırrı Sakık, MP for Mush, who wants a word in favour of the prisoner.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0134par0405	I wanted the last word, not in your favor, but you're usually segregating among all parties around here.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0135par0406	It's done, it's done, it's done, it's done,
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0134par0407	Mr. President, dear friends, we don't accept your attitude now. I didn't ask for a word in favor of your attitude, but when you can't afford it, we're willing to give BDP whatever comes out of the hook. We don't accept that kind of understanding.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0136par0408	Without a request for a word...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0135par0409	We have a request.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0136par0410	Is it leyhte or against you, sir?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0135par0411	It's in the name of the group. We asked for a favor.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0137par0412	Dear friends, if we really...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0138par0413	I want a promise, and neither do I.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0139par0414	He didn't want a word.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0140par0415	Yeah, he wanted something else, something else.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0141par0416	What did I get to say, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0142par0417	When he doesn't want a word, he's promised...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0143par0418	I want a promise, he won't give it to me.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0144par0419	Mr. President, dear friends, we're all here today fighting for the cause of the law. So since there's no law in this country from the past to the present, you're trying to implement a new legal system in your own way, so sand castles don't create insurance against disaster. If the law has been applied in a different way in this country from the past to the present, we can go through a cleansing process, we can build a law that we can all rehabilitate, but you're in such a hurry to create a law that suits you. You were uncomfortable yesterday. Yeah, from who? You were uncomfortable with Kemalists, elitists, nationalist law. That law was cruel, and it was very, very cruel to us, and it was to you. Then you came along and designed something new. What did you do? You just opened up another area, turned it into a backyard. Soon after you returned, you said: 'We have done wrong. We have no confidence in you now. You don't have the right to design a new law for yourself every day. Yes, judgment must be independent, judgment must protect and protect everyone in this country. If you want a new design in HSYK for such a judicial system, we're in. If you're going to include NGOs, independent personalities, lawyers, we're in, but no, you opened up a new space yesterday, you're fighting with them today, you're trying to open up a new space, I swear, we're not on this front. We want the country of law and peace. As a BDP, we want a system of law that everyone can take shelter in. We're the biggest victims of this. You didn't make a sound... Look, in 1994 there was a prime minister in this country who said: "I went to talk to the law, I spoke to the Constitutional Court, I spoke to the local courts, I finished off the DEP MPs." But in this country, neither the media nor the Parliament heard from a single person. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's the same thing with the KCK cases again, but today, when they touched you, you started screaming. It's not about touching you, it's about having a conscience, it's about law against your opponents, and if it's about cruelly executed, if you take a stand that day, everyone will applaud you. And we say it's not true. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0145par0425	Thank you. Muharrem İnce, Yalova MP who has made a promise against my conviction.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0146par0428	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, you just said that you would consider my objection separately with the objection of Mr. Oktay Vural. You should also open up a legal debate about my objection. You just opened it without asking, and now I demand it from you. Now, look, I'm not after this one, Mr. Lawmakers. It says "Turgut Dibek," "Bırıkkale" on page 30. Turgut is an MP from Dibek Centipede. Yes, it's written, it's true. I don't object to that, that's not my objection; it's a typo, not a spelling. Mr. President, with all due respect, if he can't distinguish my objection, people here have to test their knowledge of Turkish. I have no objection to writing "Kırkkale" on a page. Not one, not two, not three, not five, but 19 pages written by the government. People who don't know the difference between a bill and a bill don't have MPs.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0147par0430	Is the congressman writing them down?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0148par0431	Does it say Congressman?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0146par0432	I'm not saying it's the congressman.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0147par0433	Look at the text from the commission.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0146par0434	But that's what we've written to Congress, to lawmakers. It's what we call ignorance. The content has changed. You change the will; you make your will to Parliament appear to be the will of the government, and you say, "This is from the government." But we all know it's a law proposition, a law proposition from a congressman and 77 friends. How can you describe this on 19 pages as the text offered by the government, and we'll believe it... and do you know where that would be? It happens in the land of the lords, in the land of these dictators. So if you're not ashamed, bring these, my friends, let's gather them together, let's close this in Daxille, and Mr. Faithful Yakut will initial it with him, and the members of the group will come with you. This text is non-negotiable, Mr. President. The law has been broken here, the General Assembly has been misinformed. That's why I need this to retreat immediately. I've just submitted my petition to the Speaker of Parliament on this matter. That's what I expect from the Speaker of the House. That's not true, you shouldn't do that. I know you're under orders, but don't be so insulting, Parliament, don't be so insulting!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0436	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0150par0438	Mr. President... Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0440	Congressmans, I understand that there is no such procedure, the group...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0151par0441	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0442	No, we're having a formal discussion, sir. It's a formal debate...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0152par0443	Yours isn't. I mean, where's the procedure? It's not the way to do things that aren't fundamental. It's sloppy.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0444	Please, Mr. Vural. The Civil Code is in the middle, which means the 63rd Amendment...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0153par0446	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0154par0447	There's no telling where it's going to end.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0448	Of course not. Please, Congressmans, have a seat. In Article 63, sir, it's open.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0153par0449	Sir, listen to me. We raise our hands.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0450	No, why should I listen to you?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0153par0451	Why aren't you listening to me?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0452	No, why should we listen to you? We're having a formal discussion. It says, "There are no more than two in favor and two against."
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0153par0453	Why am I here? You're here to listen to me! I raise my hand, hear me out!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0454	No, why should I listen? We're having a conversation, so know what we're doing.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0153par0455	Sir, how can you decide without knowing my request?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0456	On both sides, sir, we made two promises against each other.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0153par0457	Find out what I want!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0458	No, it's not like that. That's out of the question. Please...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0153par0459	I'm raising my hand! I raise my hand! Mr. President, I raise my hand!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0460	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0153par0461	Mr. President, you have to listen to me!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0462	Please sit down. We had a formal discussion, I'll give you my opinion, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0153par0463	Sir, it's...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0464	You have no say in this, sir. No Congressman's word... please...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0155par0465	Sir, about the procedure...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0466	Members of parliament, Parliamentary Speaker (2/29) main Law Proposal number one...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0156par0467	Mr. President, you are desecrating national will!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0468	...to the Justice Commission and to the Constitutional and Plans and Budget Commissions...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0156par0469	Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0470	...was transferred on January 7, 2014.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0157par0471	Judge, are you in a hurry to set up a prosecutor?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0156par0472	Mr. President, as a lawyer, you are a disgrace to the history of law! You have to listen to me!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0473	Both Tali commissions reported to the Justice Commission in writing that they would not discuss the proposed proposal.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0156par0474	Mr. President, you will listen to me!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0475	In accordance with the parliamentary boards, the commissions...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0156par0476	Answer me, answer me, Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0477	...that they're not going to bring up the jobs that transfer to them.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0156par0478	Mr. President, answer me!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0158par0479	You listen to the President.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0480	...in the event that they report to the commission in writing...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0156par0481	Mr. President, you will answer me!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0149par0482	...ten days can begin negotiations on the bill and the proposal, unscheduled.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0159par0483	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0156par0484	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0160par0485	No, he's got a report, he's got a report!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0161par0486	In this framework, the Constitutional Commission and the Plan and Budget Commission have written that they will not discuss...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0156par0487	Mr. President, you're going to increase tension in the General Assembly. It's your responsibility.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0161par0488	...it is clear that the Justice Commission has begun its talks.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0156par0489	You can't stop me from getting a say in this!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0161par0490	Later, nine members of the Constitutional Commission...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0156par0491	Mr. President, I want a promise...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0161par0492	...The Constitutional Commission met on January 15th to discuss the proposal on January 20/1/2014, following the proposal's final statement of the Article 26 of the Interior Charter, and on January 15th, after writing to the Chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that it should be called for a meeting.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0156par0493	That's exactly what I wanted to talk to you about. You're making a decision without listening to me!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0161par0494	...and submitted his report on the proposal to the Speaker of Parliament on 21/1/2014. However, the main commission before this date, the Justice Commission, reported that the proposal was completed and submitted to our presidency on 17 January 2014, and the report was published on the same day by our presidency. The commission report entered the General Assembly agenda today. The Constitutional Commission's report has also asked that the proposal be discussed...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0162par0495	Where is it?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0163par0496	Where, where?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0161par0497	...it's been decided that there's no place for it to pass.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0164par0498	How do you know?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0161par0499	On a matter that the original commission has discussed...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0165par0500	Mr. President, in less than eight hours... Article 52 will say that.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0164par0501	How do you know that, if he's not here, how do you know that? Did they whisper in your ear?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0165par0502	Look, the 52nd article:...the 40th eight hours...... it came to us yesterday.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0166par0503	...it's clear that the report on the postal commission will not make any sense.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0165par0504	This bill came to us yesterday, 48 hours later.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0166par0505	Therefore, there is no action to be carried out by our presidency.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0167par0506	Mr. President, you're reading what's written to you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0165par0507	Mr. President, the 52nd article says eight hours will pass. He came to us yesterday, and it looks like 24 hours.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0166par0508	At the same time...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0167par0509	That's not in the number of rows.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0166par0510	Mr. Korkmaz, we're having a formal discussion, please...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0167par0511	How do you know that? How do you know that?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0168par0512	Look, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0166par0513	...Preparation 2/1929...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0167par0514	How do you know that? How do you know that?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0168par0515	Mr. President, the Civil Code says it's eight hours, it hasn't passed yet, it came here yesterday!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0166par0516	...on the cover of row 523 and on the first page of the proposal was printed with the title of ▪Bartin MP Yilmaz junç and 77 MPs' Proposal.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0168par0517	Mr. President, it hasn't been 48 hours, Civil Code 52...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0169par0518	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0166par0519	Also, the title of the attached list was written in the same way. However, the column with the proposal on the following pages of the proposal text was published as the text proposed by the government.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0170par0520	Yeah, how about that?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0171par0521	Ya, not the couch, not the couch!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0166par0522	It's a financial error in printing in the presidential way...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0172par0523	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0166par0524	...is not considered to be an obstacle to the distribution of the number of lines. The debates on the General Assembly of the Proposal...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0173par0525	Sehven President, I think that's the chief!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0174par0526	Mr. President, the Constitutional Commission's report is the absolute principle of this.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0166par0527	...is made through the text accepted by the commission. This error in the number of rows will be corrected and will be included in the Journal of the Book. The financial error in question is not fundamentally affected.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0175par0528	Mr. President, Mr. President, I want a word.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0166par0529	Therefore, there is no change in my view.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0175par0531	Mr. President, you're slaughtering the law, slaughtering the law. As a lawyer, you will be a disgrace to the history of law!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0166par0532	Could be, Mr...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0175par0533	I want a promise!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0176par0534	Our member of the Constitutional Commission has been at that Commission meeting and has stated that his views on that Commission meeting are not included in this report.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0175par0535	I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0176par0536	Please, the Constitutional Commission...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0177par0537	The original will be discussed, discussed, your ideas...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0176par0538	Sir, it's not about the departments.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0177par0539	No, sir...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0178par0540	It's my language about the procedure.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0176par0541	Don't be a gunman! Don't be a gunman! You've had your three semesters, what the hell!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0178par0542	I'm talking about the procedure!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0179par0543	Mr. Acar, you've asked for a word of harassment, please.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0178par0544	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0179par0545	I've had the report examined, please, Mr. Acar. Two minutes, I promise, because of the bullying...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0178par0547	Mr. President, not even your colleagues will forget you! The lawyers will remember you as a black mark, understand?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0180par0548	Well done, good for you! Well done, well done!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0179par0549	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. We'll see about that.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0178par0550	Look, we want a promise, I promise!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0180par0551	You tear up that diploma!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0178par0552	Pity!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0181par0553	Sir, I'll see you soon. Here you go, Mr. Acar. I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0182par0555	It's a pleasure to be in charge, I'll be damned!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0183par0556	The box is someone else's, the safe is someone else's. Mayor, I know you won't get the box!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0182par0557	Shame on you! And the shoeboxes can't save you! And the shoe boxes can't be saved! How many shoeboxes will you take with you? He's a hit man!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0184par0560	Dear friends, I salute you all. Regarding the Court reports, my fellow Justice and Development Party MP said: "These reports have come, whereas sending a single - page and unprovoked decision is not to send a report. That's cheating on the public. One of the opponents of the parliament said in the budget, Gürkut Acar. Yes, we opposed it, but we couldn't control it, my dear friends. Opposition doesn't mean we're overseeing it. It is true to accept that the audit will be carried out through the judiciary, my friend of the AKP, but the Law of Judges and Prosecutors is being changed for this, and the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Act now brings in a mandate that the prime minister can even intervene in divorce cases, let alone cover all cases.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0182par0562	Do not sit in it. You're sitting on behalf of the Speaker. Don't sit there!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0185par0563	It's a henna cake, it's a henna cake!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0182par0564	Intruder! You're an intruder!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0185par0565	They're having an ex-judge murder the law. It's a henna cake!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0186par0566	This is wrong, my dear friends. Modification of the HSYK would mean the destruction of the system at the root of this system in Turkey. Look, we're not gonna make you do this, my dear friends. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is also mandatory. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors is being asked to change the scope of public damage cases, review the dimensions of corruption and bribery, and discuss measures to be taken, to prevent all of this. We won't let that happen, my dear friends.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0187par0567	Who are you?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0186par0568	The majority isn't everything, remember that. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not only responsible for saving the Prime Minister, it is not to create the HSYK.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0187par0569	The House does what it wants.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0186par0570	We warn you from here, withdraw the proposal of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, against the Constitution, against the state of law.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0187par0571	We're gonna change it, we're gonna change it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0186par0572	These people won't accept it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0187par0573	We'll change it in spite of you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0186par0574	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0188par0576	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0189par0577	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0190par0578	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0188par0582	The Justice and Development Party has agreed to a group proposal...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0191par0584	Despite you, we'll change it in spite of your ball.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0192par0585	Mr. President... Mr. President, I want a word!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0188par0586	...wants Yilmaz Bronze, Bart's MP.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0193par0588	Mr. President, Mr. President, look, you're discriminated against by lawmakers. You're saying: I only promise to the band presidents.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0188par0589	Mr. Bronze, come in.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0193par0590	Your attitude is indeed contrary to the Civil Code. You are biased according to Article 63 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0188par0591	Your attitude is against the Civil Code, not mine, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0194par0592	Sit down, Mahmoud, sit down. Have some respect, have some respect for the congressman.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0193par0593	Look, you're opening up a discussion of procedure...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0195par0594	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0196par0595	Mr. Bronze, go ahead and talk to him.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0197par0596	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the AK PARTY group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0195par0597	Mr. President, you have to listen to my request.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0196par0598	No, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0195par0599	You have to listen to me.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0196par0600	I'm not, sir. I'm having a discussion.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0195par0601	Look, you're making the weather hard on this General Assembly, and you're the one who's responsible for it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0198par0602	The legal proposal for the EC PARTY group proposal is from the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0195par0603	You have to promise me, Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0198par0604	... And it contains a proposal for a change in some laws.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0195par0606	Look, you're disturbing the peace of the General Assembly. You're disturbing the peace of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0198par0607	The proposal was submitted on 7 January to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0195par0608	You promise me, you promise me.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0198par0610	In accordance with Article 23 of the Parliamentary Council's Act, the proposal is to be made to the Justice Commission as the main commission...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0195par0612	If you have a little sense of justice, a little respect for your past, you have to promise me.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0198par0613	...to the Constitutional Commission and the Plan and Budget Commission.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0195par0615	If you have any respect for your past, if you still have a little respect for the judges and prosecutors outside, you have to promise me.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0198par0616	The Justice Commission, where the proposal was referred as the main commission...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0199par0617	It's not worth it!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0195par0618	Woe to you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0199par0619	It's not worth it!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0195par0620	Pity!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0200par0621	... January 10, 2014, 15 o'clock. He has sent the agenda to his members to discuss the offer at 00.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0195par0622	These objections will go on until the end, and you're the one who's responsible for it. [[From CHP and BDP rows to row caps, noise]] You're the one who's responsible for this. You're disturbing the peace of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0200par0625	Tali commissions have written to the Justice Commission that they cannot negotiate the proposal.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0201par0626	Mr. President, take a break, you have to take a break.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0200par0627	The Constitutional Commission announced on January 8, 2014 that they would not discuss the proposal as a subcommittee with the articles of the Parliamentary Plan and Budget Commission, dated 8 January 2014, and reported to the Justice Commission.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0202par0629	Mr. President, we can't hear a word, we can't hear a word. How do you manage? How do you run the General Assembly? You can't hear them. Look, the peace of the General Assembly is broken, and you're in charge of it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0200par0630	The Justice Commission has begun negotiations with the proposal at the appointed time. Meanwhile, as talks continue in the Justice Commission, the Constitutional Commission has been called to a meeting by the President of the Constitutional Commission on the agenda proposed by 1-third of its members, according to the final joke of the 26th Amendment.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0202par0632	Why are you pointing? Why are you pointing there? Are you the President of the AKP Group or the Assembly?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0203par0633	Guys, it's a shame! That's a shame!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0202par0634	Why are you winking at the AKP Group from there?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0203par0635	Get permission, get permission!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0204par0636	The Constitutional Commission has also decided that the constitutional compliance of the proposal must be discussed in the Justice Commission, which is the main commission under the Article 38 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0202par0637	You're the president of the entire House. Shame on you! You're making eyelashes. Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0203par0638	You're the Speaker of the House!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0204par0639	Dear MPs, Civil Code 38 is open. The 38th article of our Civil Charter is as follows: The title is: The study of the constitution.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0203par0640	Stabbing from behind like Brutus. Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0204par0641	At first, the Commissions are obliged to examine whether the bill or proposals referred to them are against the text and spirit of the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0205par0643	Take a break!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0204par0644	▪ A commission...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0205par0645	Take a break, Mayor, take a break!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0206par0647	Why don't you take a break? And you're disrespecting the clerk there. You can't hear what's being said.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0207par0648	Shame on you! Is there such a parliament?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0208par0649	..if he sees a bill or a proposal contrary to the Constitution, he rejects it before he negotiates the articles....and the Parliamentary Court of Justice shall, according to Article 38...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0206par0651	And you're being disrespectful.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0208par0652	...has decided against the Constitution and has decided that the proposal is not contrary to the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0206par0654	What are you pointing at?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0208par0655	The law proposal proposed in the EC PARTY group proposal is in accordance with the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0209par0657	Shame on you! Shame on you! On behalf of the Speaker, I say shame on you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0208par0658	I wish the offer well, the group wishes our proposal well, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0209par0660	Boo! Boo! Boo!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit04spe0210par0661	Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0210par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Muharrem İnce, Yalova MP who has asked for a statement against the Justice and Development Party's group proposal.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0211par0004	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Your order of action was as follows: First you changed the Law of the Judiciary, and the Court cancelled, and you objected, and your objection was rejected. You've changed prosecutors, you've filed investigations against them. You've moved 2,000 cops. You've changed the president of MASAK. You dismissed bureaucrats in BDK. You changed apartments in HSYK. You just replaced 97 prosecutors with HSYK, and there are judges. You instructed the ambassadors, not to defend the policies of the Republic of Turkey's state, but to defend AKP's rights, to threaten prosecutors. Now, I'd like to ask you a question: I don't suppose you're all contract seekers, and you're not all pursuing jobs; I suppose you're not all profiting from the foundation set up by your wife, your company, your father-in-law, your brother-in-law, your brother-in-law, your sister-in-law, your family. That's not possible. Well, if that's the case, why don't you all, if you're not a part of it, stop it. What's the rush? What's all the fuss about? You're nervous. You're scared. I will change him, I will change him, I will take hold of him, I will change the Constitution, I will change the law; I will change the judges, the prosecutors; I will change the MASAK, the BDK. Look, my dear friends, is there no mercy, no conscience, no knowledge of the law? We have a report that Mr. President read today. If you don't have it, I'll give it to you. So the prosecutor who filed a report says that the undersecretary called me. Turn this off. He's giving you his watch. First, he called at 1 98.38, calling from the number one phone. Then at 22.31, the undersecretary called me again, threatening me. Go to me at this hour, change the state's attorney, call off all decisions and stop this investigation. If you don't do this, you'll suffer the consequences. Is this a bastion, a fascist...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0212par0008	Is he coming here? I'm curious.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0211par0009	We'll see if that undersecretary comes here. We'll tell him. Guys, can't you see this? Congressman, aren't you ashamed of this? Someone from my party is going to do that, an undersecretary is going to do that when my party is in power, and if I didn't ask that party for it, I'd be pissed. We weren't born a congressman! We weren't born a congressman, we'd just walk away. Next time they put it on the list, they don't put it on the list. Is it worth it to be crushed, to bend your neck, to be part of this because we're going to be lawmakers again?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0213par0011	Then get out of here!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0211par0012	You're already going to change 65 percent. I've been here for three semesters, and every time I look at it, 65 percent of the MPs will change whether you object or not. At least object, stand up straight so they can get your name on the history pages.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0213par0014	We pass the law we believe in.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0211par0015	The violation of the Constitution is undisputed, very clear. You know it's against the Constitution. Read the Civil Code 38. The Commission examines, examines, and investigates whether this proposal is in accordance with the Constitution. In one speech, the commissioner says: "This is a political audit. It is not a judicial audit. If there is a Article 38, this law should not come here to this General Assembly. You try to design everything, but you waste it, you waste it on yourself, and you waste it on Turkey.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0213par0016	Don't feel sorry for us.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0211par0017	That's not the way to get rid of it. Look, when we told you this was going to happen six months ago, you didn't believe it. You've been in a hurry here since December 17th. This is just the beginning, there's nothing in it, see what else you can see. We'll all see what this General Assembly will witness. That's what the majority dictatorship is all about. So the President is opening a procedural debate, where he spends a majority of business and procedures that are not in accordance with the Constitution, which is not in accordance with the Civil Code. That's what dictatorship is all about. You're missing an almond mustache. This bill was not only referred to the Justice Commission, it was transferred to the Plan Budget, it was transferred to the Constitutional Commission. The opposition commission called a meeting in the final joke of the 26th Amendment of the Civil Code. After the commission report was written and published, the commission was met. Mr. President, this is an actual violation of the Civil Code. The law is being discussed on the commission, you're giving the opposition 16 hours for counter-voting. Is that what this is? Are you kidding me with the General Assembly? There's a gang. You say there's a parallel state. You say there's a organization. You say there's a organization. So you two weren't together? Then you must be judged. You need to be tried for aiding and abetting the gang, the organization. [[Applause from CHP rows]] This is the authority of Recep Tayyip Erdogan as a king, a law that destroys the state of law, transforms covered fascism into open fascism. We disagreed at the referendum, and today we disagree. You were defending them in those days. There's a gang. You say there's a organization. You say there's a organization. Did you complain, do you have a complaint? No. You have no complaints. Well, there's a gang. You say. Didn't you say what they wanted in the past? If it's a gang, if it's an organization, then we gave them what they wanted. Why did you give them to the gang, to the organization? Don't they ask him that? For 11 years, we've destroyed the gang. You say. Turns out you've been lying to people. You're all gangbangers, huggers. That's what you thought when it came to you. What were you thinking when you lifted the camera on the judge's exam? What were you thinking when the police exams were being stolen? When you send the prosecutor from Istanbul to Tekirdağ, does the gang disappear? He's resigning from the organization? Isn't the organization's channel reaching for Tekirdağ? But it's clear from the beginning that you'll be here. While the Prime Minister is the mayor of Istanbul, he is angry with members of the review board and gives inspectorship to economic inspectors only once. THE Prime Minister appoints the president and members of the TÜBITAK for one time. The Prime Minister appoints the president of TİB. And now you're taking them all out. You're making a special law to protect the Undersecretary of MIT, so you know about trucks in advance. So you actually took precautions when you filed an emergency law at midnight to protect the Undersecretary of MIT. We'll send something out in the trucks, so let's not search these trucks. It turns out you took precautions that day. The Prime Minister says: You don't know what the MIT Law is. I don't think the Prime Minister understands what you're reading. A warrant is one thing, a prosecutor finding evidence is another. The Prime Minister grants a warrant, but the prosecutor finds evidence here, evidence. The Prime Minister doesn't even know his law. We have warned you that the Day of Judgment will weigh you down. As soon as the cantar began to weigh you, you came to your senses. The Prime Minister has the power to stop broadcasting, to appoint ambassadors to the Prime Minister, such as the Padişah's foreign envoy, and to form parallel Foreign Affairs. Yeah, well, screw your justice. The 13-year-old boy in Çanakkale wrote that he should resign. You're suing him for destruction of public property. Aren't you ashamed? The 13-year-old is on trial for damaging public property, and the ministers are taking the children away with a pool of millions of dollars. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Those of you who are not from you, who are judging the Prime Minister, are sectarians, coupgers, gangsters, Ergenekonians, parallel statesmen; those who don't are the prime ministers. Your problem, Enver Salihoglu, Fahri Tornado, Hüseyin Karakullukçı, İsmail Rügü Cirit, who questioned the Prime Minister in the past, who oversees his case, who makes decisions about the Prime Minister and where he comes to next. My governor, my undersecretary, my Chief of Staff, my general manager, my MP. The last thing the Prime Minister wants to do is: my judge, my prosecutor. People see it, you'll see what happens to you on March 30th. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0214par0033	Thank you. Gökcen Özdoğan Enç, Antalya MP who has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal for Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0215par0036	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Justice and Development Party group proposal. I salute your high council. We have brought you our group's recommendation as the AK PARTY Group, as our advisory committee has not been able to reach a unanimous vote at today's meeting. According to this, the agenda should be taken into the ranks of 523, 385 and 266 of Law Proposals and Bills in the section of Law Bills and Proposals and Other Jobs from Commissions, in order of 3, 4 and 5 Ways and other tasks in order; the general council cannot discuss verbal questions on Tuesday (January 21st 2013) -- except on weekdays 25th and 26th January 2014 -- and Sundays at 14th. The meeting of these mergers in the "Law Bills and Other Affairs From Commissions" part of the agenda until the completion of the talks on Tuesday (January 21, 2014 - January 21, 2014 -- until the meeting of the Law Charter No. 459 -- until Friday (January 24, 2014) -- until the meeting of the 335th Bill of Law until Wednesday (January 22nd 2014) -- was finalised until the end of negotiations of the Law until Saturday (January 23rd 2014). We have a group of proposals, as long as it is not discussed until after the regular schedule is completed, and as long as the Law Proposal No. 523 is considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, and its sections are in the accompanying form. We're waiting for your support. I hope it will be a productive, beautiful week, a week without swearing, without fighting, without noise, with respect to your high council.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0216par0041	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0217par0042	You take care of Zayid Aslan. You'll be fine in this General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0216par0043	The Justice and Development Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Sırrı Sakık, Müsh MP.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0218par0045	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. There's an expression in Asia Minor: I'll tell you. Yes, we know you're in trouble, we're all in trouble, so if you think we're enjoying the trouble you're going through, you're wrong. The Kurds have a very nice word, he says, so don't let God in heaven fool anyone, and when he does, don't let him crawl on the floor. Now, history offers you an opportunity. Can we learn a lesson from what's happened, democratize this country, free this country, so can we turn this country into a country of law and peace? If you've got something to learn from here, let's all create the country of law and peace together. We've just been talking around here again, and we've said, we know the judiciary isn't independent, and we're the most victims of this. We are victims of your judgment from the founding of the republic to this day. You know, when we say Kurds, there's an apocalypse, you keep saying Kurds, but your judgment has persecuted Kurds, persecuted every aspect of life.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0219par0049	He did it to the Turks, he did it to the Turks.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0218par0050	But you've never returned to question and judge this judgment. Today, we will talk about HSYK again. I mean, really, are we going to create the country of law and peace, a judgment that everyone can take, or a judgment that has a backyard? For him, there must be a judgment, an independent judgment that we can all take. This independent judgment, whichever of us is in trouble, is my judgment here......... when I leave, we all need a system of justice to look out for my rights and my law and protect it. Look, this HSYK -- look, it explains everything -- but in Roboski, 34 of our people were murdered, there's not a single voice from HSYK, look at the Turkish Bar Association -- everyone's meeting with the Prime Minister, the leader of the main opposition party, meeting with NGOs. Who's he seeing, who's he talking to? The Ergenekon, the Sledgehammer. But there's KCK, but there's Roboski, but there are Kurds; you don't have a single reaction to these people you've persecuted over the years. For him, both the HSYK and the Bar Association are trying to apply the same policy as the former Kurds. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip. We're calling you from here today. If history has found such an opportunity, if there is going to be a cleansing process, let's make this judgment independent. Let this judgment be the judgment of all of us. But as we discuss this HSYK, for example, you don't think about military judgment at all, you don't speak, but a week, ten days ago, the military court made a decision. He turned around and said: "We killed 34 people. We searched later. We are not criminals," he said. So, if the people who did it are the same, if the killers aren't found, and you're not saying anything about a military trial, we'll question and judge your sincerity. Roboski's wounds are so severe... with his mother, with his children, all the victims fighting for justice in Roboski, but then there's operations going on in Roboski. What's being done? I mean, in this victim's house... there's a G3 infantry rifle missing a gun, my dear friends, a gun. But this government, this army, has killed 34 people, killed 34 people. 34 people's killers were not searched, 34 victims' homes were torn to pieces, those people were taken into custody, and those people were questioned, tried. His power and opposition have made no sound to anyone. What kind of justice is that? What kind of law is that? You're going to kill 34 people, while those people's pain is alive, you're going to tear their house apart, you're looking for a missing weapon. So where are my 34 missing people? Who's gonna pay for this?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0220par0056	Tell him there, over there.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0218par0057	I'm asking you, where are the killers of 34 of my people, with his power, with his opposition? Here, we'll face it. If we can do that, we can make peace with the people, but we don't do that. Look, two days ago was the anniversary of Hrant Dink. The inhabitants of this land and 40 percent of the population of my land were non-Muslims. What you did, what you did, what you and your ancestors and we all did, we all wronged these people, we drove them out of this land, we drove them out of this land, we destroyed their history, their culture, and then we came back, to ourselves, and then you came back.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0221par0059	They only killed 518,000 people.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0218par0060	Don't talk, don't talk.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0221par0061	How come I never talk? You don't talk.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0218par0062	Then you returned, and you took out the property tax in 1942, and you made these people in debt without any right or law, and you took possession of their property. He wasn't enough, you had nothing, you took them away -- their property was not enough -- you took them to Ashkale, you made them work; you made them work in the quarry, in the railways. That's not enough; you got your victims killed here, they're dead. So, the victim became a traitor, you made murderers heroes in this country, and you planted fig trees in these people's houses, in their stoves. We live together in a land where such cruel policies exist, but still there are no killers of Hrant, and still no one of the murderers of that time is being held accountable. We're still turning, we're doing everything we can to destroy these colors inside of us, these cultures of ours. We're still turning, what do we do? In the heart of Istanbul, we take the inflated, what do they call it - the Santas and take them there. What's taking them? The Anadolu Youth Association. He takes them away, those inflated balloons, they first circumcised that Santa Claus, and then stabbed him. We have this tradition, we have this culture from our ancestors. We're not ashamed, we're not taking part in humanity, and we're acting on revenge from an inflated balloon, and then we're going back to this land, trying to make peace, democracy, tolerance. No one, I assure you, no one accepts them anymore. We have to face them. Perhaps a little angry with us, offended by us, our ancestors, our tradition, our history, we don't have that. In the name of God, all political parties are like a congregation. No one in this country should accuse anyone of anything else. So, if there's such an accusation against the congregations today, it's a sign that there is no democratic culture here because every political party, including us, is a self-criticism, we act as a community, we act as a cult, because we can't digest democracy and freedom. We're like door-to-door servants, with a political tradition at the gates of presidents looking for a future. Now, I've said it that day, and I'm telling you right now, our biggest problem is this is the Law of Political Parties and Elections, which we need to change right now; this is the way to get out of door service, this is the way out of community culture, this is the way out of cult culture. Anatolia is full of suffering, so as Yasar Kemal said, it's always said in Anatolia, it's said in Anatolia for the oppressors, it's said in Asia Minor, so that there's more trouble. This country has persecuted us so much, it has persecuted Kurds, different thinkers, and non-Muslims, and she is the one who suffers. Let's build together a system of justice in this country that we can all take refuge in. If that's what you're working for, by turning our nights together, by combining our day... we need a judgment that we can all benefit from, but if you make your own judgment, we've paid the price from yesterday to today, and we're willing to pay the price again. Well, that's what we're destined for. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0222par0067	Thank you. I'll put the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0223par0071	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0222par0072	He's got a roll call, I'm doing it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Özer, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Acar, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Topal, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Silver, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Özgündüz and Mr. Bridgel. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0224par0076	Mr. President, my congressman is occupying the bench. You want us to do something to her now?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0225par0077	Recep, Recep...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0224par0078	I wonder what you're doing there, I'm really curious. I don't know what you're doing there.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0226par0079	I didn't do anything.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0224par0080	I mean, why bother, there's nothing to be disturbed about. It's impossible to tell what you're doing. They're capable friends, they do their job.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0226par0082	Engin Hyung, as we told you upstairs...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0227par0084	Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0089	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0227par0090	In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0091	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0229par0092	Are they the vice presidents of the sentry group, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0093	Now, the 10th article of our Constitution regulates the article of equality.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0229par0094	We don't want any pirate talk, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0095	I'm a congressman.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0230par0096	Mr. Tanal, we have the Civil Code. We pledge according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0097	Look, I'll tell you what my problem is...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0230par0098	Please...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0231par0099	The group pretends to be the vice president, the copycat.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0100	Mr. President, if you'd just listen to me, it's your decision to make a promise, of course, with respect, but...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0232par0101	In the Civil Code, we have to make a promise by looking at the deputy president of the group.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0233par0102	Sir, it's in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0103	Sir, look...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0232par0104	Does it say in the Civil Code to direct the General Assembly by looking at the deputy chairman of the group?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0105	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0234par0106	Yes, I am: ▪ To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0111	Look, with your attitude, you're making the House work nervous.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0235par0112	We don't want any pirate talk, Mr. President, this is the one standing up.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0113	I beg of you, the 10th article of the Constitution is clear. It says that all lawmakers are equal, that race, color, gender, language are not discriminated against. From the time my main law proposal was transferred to the commission by your chairman...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0236par0115	I can't tell, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0116	Article 87 of the Constitution (the Constitution) commands all MPs to work in legislative activities. I mean, from this point of view, I'm asking you to... After 45 days, it has not been discussed or concluded by the commission... Look, Mr. President, you're making a mistake with this attitude. In accordance with Article 37 of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Court, I demand and demand that my legal proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda. Mr. President, why are you afraid to look at me? I mean, would you look at me?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0237par0123	Yes, I am, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0124	What are you afraid of? Look, can I have your attention?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0238par0125	He runs the AKP Group Deputy, why should he look at you?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0237par0126	Offered by Haluk Eyidoğan, İstanbul Millekli...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0127	Mr. President, when you're supposed to be independent...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0239par0128	We don't want any pirate talk, Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0129	...in accordance with Article 10 of the Constitution, you are in violation of the principle of equality. You can't do that.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0240par0130	Mr. Eyeborn, please.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0131	There is no inferiority among MPs.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0240par0132	Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0133	There is no hierarchical ranking among the MPs.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0240par0134	Please, sir, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0241par0135	Sir, let him finish.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0136	Look...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0240par0137	The floor is yours.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0228par0138	Mr. President... Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0240par0139	Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0242par0140	There's a congressman delivering his request, listen!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0240par0141	Are you coming to the stand, sir?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0243par0142	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0240par0143	But I gave you the promise.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0243par0144	Mr. President, look, I'm telling you the Constitutional provisions; will you listen to them, please?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0244par0145	Then let's talk, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0240par0146	Here you go. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0245par0148	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this bill was submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey twenty-six months ago, 23 November 2011. The most important lesson taken in many earthquakes is that most of the buildings were built without legal or professional supervision in the stages of study, planning, design, construction, and maintenance. We're still paying the bill for lack of control and looseness. We didn't exactly do our homework properly. From April 10, 2000 to today, construction of a large number of quality and security structures in our country has been proven to be possible because of the lack of structure control system. However, in the case of building control agencies, the current structure is unsustainable in terms of the YDK. With the system going on like this, it's clear that there will be serious casualties and victims. Alarm bells ring in the system and building control agencies. As of November 2013, the number of building control agencies that have serious problems under construction control is 459, the number of building control agencies that have been temporarily halted, the number of building control agencies that have been suspended 3 times, 190, the number of engineers and architects with the quality of supervisors and architects with the quality of 1,576, the number of engineers and architects with the quality of control members, 764, the number of engineers and architects who have an active body control agency 1,613. In our country, a structure control system that works, is not abused and is based on scientific basis must be ensured immediately. There's only one invoice that the building control system is relaxed and open to abuse, which is to be destroyed. Your deputy, who is a lawyer and who has been mayor, is still a witness to injustices, unregistered and destroyed structures in Ercish, is well aware of the drama. While the money in the shoebox is being talked about, there's a trillion dollars spent on covered funds, hundreds of families are still fighting for their lives in containers. This winter, they don't even have drinks, water to bathe in. It's 2014, they're drawing water with donkeys, unfortunately, that's how they get water in containers. To your conscience, I speak to your heart: Where are the villages of Vanite, which Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar promised to do? The government sold their TOKI homes for 105,000 TL in Vanlıya, who wanted to build a house, was satisfied with 41,000 TL. How is this justice and development? The establishment of the competent engineering system in Turkey is crucial because we are a candidate country for membership in the European Union, but this cannot be done. We have to build a working structure control model that has proven its competency, which allows those who follow professional ethics to do it. The municipality must be allowed to monitor the work of building control agencies under construction control. There's no planning and there's no progress. Planning and building control should be in perspective that will help reduce the risk of earthquakes. The plan first, then the structure must be the motto. Plan control is as important as building control. The audit should include urban and regional planning. Planners should be able to work with competent professionals with occupational responsibility insurance, while vocational rooms must take charge of regulatory authority. The insurance system must be integrated into the structural control and competent engineering system. We need to get the contractor to find the control company that does their job, not the one that does the audit cheap. We have to figure out why the contractor calls today's system punishment. We need to eliminate the possibility of the contractor negotiating with the building control company. All building inspections, including public structures, must be included in the system of structure control -- energy, water, transport and so on. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0246par0162	Thank you. Sakine Öz, Manisa MP on behalf of an MP.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0247par0165	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This bill, which considers building control as a fundamental principle of our everyday life, envisions being prepared for the earthquake, was given in 2011, but so far it has not been taken on the agenda of Parliament. Since politics has been run by preferences, the AKP ranks, which have turned their back on this proposal for two years, have seen what they say in the zoning and control area during this time, "No." Let's see what they say, without question, "Yes." In the past two and a half years, AKP ranks have adopted laws that have opened doors to the zoning and environmental massacres in Turkey. In the past two years, he has taken on the task of taking legal amendments, which are clearly against the law, not on public benefit, but on Rantsal transforming, all of them, from the public to the new rich, such as the transformation of areas in the field of publicisation, building control, floor ownership, zoning, housing, environment, forest, disaster risks. The amendments to the Legislative Law have been officially launched on the property of the citizen. Dear lawmakers, it hasn't been long since 2013, the year 2013 has been the most showing who and what politics are made for and for. Travel resistance and corruption are concrete evidence of that. Last week, negotiations for the Prime Minister's zoning and forest land permit have been released to the press. Here's the law where those negotiations were discussed, right in the early days of the Travel Resistance, Publicity came to the Development Commission. Now, the attitude that we put into the reshuffle of the Forest Law, which has been put on hold seven months ago, was this law, officially a land bribe and a private development arrangement. This law, based on the rich of new power, is not named only for whom. The smell will soon come out. When we're coming out one by one, on the Commission and on this bench, I'm telling you everything in one and clear language, but no precautions are taken, you're being insensitive. Instead, we've become sad. Dear lawmakers, the return of areas under the risk of disaster, the state has been forced to become a land mafia, and the victims of citizens on land 2/B have endured. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I continue to warn you, but I see you're continuing to chat. Again, the Protection Board's decisions have been ignored, and most of them have been signed in accordance with the request of the advocate. Despite all our warnings from the Public Works Commission, the AKP has only issued a majority of votes, control, and all principles and practices on the interests of the public during this period. Many zoning powers of local governments have been taken under the command of the ministries. Under pressure from the income of vocational rooms, control authority for public benefit has been filed, rooms have been tried to be disabled, executives have been taken into custody for reasons they do not have, and warehouses have been raided with dirty scripts. The draft of the new zoning law, which is said to be coming to parliament, aims at a completely ranta-oriented order. Look at the Parliament, which has not raised Mr. Hope Oran's proposal for law in two years, which law will soon come: with AKP's new zoning draft, almost every area that has remained open in the area of construction, environment and construction control for two years will be opened. The government, which ends agriculture, will grow with construction on public shores and mera fields. The sale of land to strangers and construction on this land will increase. The control and zoning plans of the buildings will be abandoned to complete disorganisation. Here's what we want to tell you one by one, when we're in the politics of choice, we're in the interests of the public, the accountable state, justice and freedom and democracy. Where you stand, the laws you bring, the watches on your arm, the dollars in your purse and box, are in the middle. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0248par0177	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0249par0181	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0248par0182	I'm fulfilling the request. Mr. Eyüt, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Öner, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Acar, Mr. Topal, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Koren, Mr. Özgundüz, Mr. Kokturk and Mr. Erdemir. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Under the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions or other audit issues, but we move on to the "Other Affairs From Commissions With Law and Proposals" part of the agenda. We will resume negotiations with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and with Turkey's 1st-placed Civil Charter Proposal on the Amendment of the Grand National Assembly. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Bart's MP Yilmaz junç and 77 MPs, who have been ranked in the third place, and of the Law Proposal and the Justice Commission Report. The commission...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0250par0206	No.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0251par0207	No, no, no.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0248par0208	...and the government is in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 523 rows... (x) 523 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0213	Mr. President, no, there's no commission report, no commission report, no proper commission report. I've made my statement that you can't bring up the Justice and Development Party group proposal. You're saying the report was distributed today. The report of the Tali commission was not included in this report, so this report was not submitted. In this regard, no proper report has been submitted. There's no way to start negotiations right now, sir, since there's not a proper report being submitted.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0253par0214	The offer goes to Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0248par0215	Mr. Vural, this has just been discussed in the procedure debate, sir, and we have responded.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0216	No, sir, this is about... look, one thing can only be discussed when the time comes. Then I only did it on the Justice and Development Party's recommendation. Your claim that you had a procedural argument about something that wasn't on the agenda means there's absolutely nothing on the agenda, because at the time, it's not on the agenda. Sir, we discussed this on an unscheduled issue on the agenda. It's a completely separate violation of the Civil Code. In that regard... you have a specific statement here regarding this report. You're saying: "The Constitutional Commission report also states that there is no place for the proposal to be discussed." • This is caliphic because this report states that on 20 January 2014, our Commission met to discuss the proposal on behalf of nine commissioners in accordance with the last joke of the Turkish Civil Charter of the Grand National Assembly. • In this regard, sir, since there's not a commission report that's been properly prepared, it can't be started.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0248par0217	Yes, we just explained, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0218	Sir, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0248par0219	The Constitutional Commission met on 20/1/2014 to discuss the proposal and submitted its report on 21/1/2014 to the Parliamentary Presidency, following the last statement of nine members of the Constitutional Commission's Article 26/1/1/2014 to discuss the proposal. However, prior to this date, the original commission, the Justice Commission, reported that the proposal was completed and submitted to our presidency on 17 January 2014, and the report was published on the same day by our presidency. The Commission report is on the agenda of the General Assembly today. The Constitutional Commission's Report says there is no place for the proposal to be discussed...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0220	That's not true, that's not true.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0248par0221	Sir?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0222	There's no such thing, it's not.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0248par0223	..it is understood that he has made a decision.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0224	That's not true, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0248par0225	The Tali Commission Report, which was made on a matter discussed by the Commission, clearly does not make any sense. We have just stated.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0254par0226	You won't get anywhere by reading from there, Mr. Sadik.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0227	Mr. President, look, here, in this Commission Report, it says: "The proposal has been met for discussion." Has it been put on the agenda? He'll either refuse or accept a matter that's been discussed. Therefore, if he is gathered to meet, if he is gathered on that agenda, the need for that agenda must be fulfilled. It's so clear and clear. My fellow bureaucrats there have been informed of the non-technical...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0248par0228	No, not your bureaucratic friends, but I repeat, it appears that the Constitutional Commission's Report has decided that there is no place for the proposal to be discussed.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0255par0229	Let him put it...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0230	No, sir, no, no, he's reporting that there's no further talks. The absence of any further talks...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0248par0231	Yes, I'm reading the Constitutional Commission Report, sir, the final sentences.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0232	Read it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0248par0233	After the talks, the motion for the procedure was put to a vote...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0234	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0248par0235	..that there should be no more interviews.........
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0236	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0248par0237	The commission has been approved by the majority of votes.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0238	Sir, there's been talks, and there's been no further...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0248par0239	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0240	And is he sending this report to the Justice Commission, the High President? Is there a right to a commission in ten days? So, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0248par0241	It continues: Our report is given with respect to the high presidency to be sent to the Justice Commission, the main commission, according to the wire transfer.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0242	What did the High President do? He didn't perform high duty. What did your presidency do? Now, Mr. President, about that...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0256par0243	There's no dignity in the presidency!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0248par0244	In this case, the Constitutional Commission's report shall be ruled by none, sir; there is nothing to be done.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0245	Mr. President, the President of the Constitutional Commission...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0257par0246	Is that even possible? Is that even possible? We've worked four and a half hours, how can it be ruled?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0247	In his previous opinion, the President of the Constitutional Commission made a decision not to be assembled, then gathered and attached it to a report. Therefore, since the Parliamentary Presidency's will came to the attention of this report within a ten-day period, before the report was published on the 15th, there is a contradiction between the two commissions. That's why there's such a...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0258par0248	No contradictions, sir. He says we won't see each other. The Constitution... doesn't mean anything...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0249	It may not be a contradiction to you. There's no conflict between bribery and corruption for you. For you...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0258par0250	I'm reading it, sir. I'm reading the Constitutional Commission Report.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0251	Not at all. Sir, you can't take this.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0259par0253	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0260par0254	Sir, I'm reading you the Constitutional Commission report.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0255	Sir, no, you read it wrong.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0260par0256	Mr. Vural isn't like that. I mean, what does the Commission mean?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0252par0257	You read it wrong, not not not to be interviewed, but not to be continued.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0260par0258	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0261par0259	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0260par0260	Mr. Honey, please, but... no, the group's vice presidents have answered...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0262par0261	Yeah, you read it wrong. Yeah, you read it wrong. Don't be in such a hurry to set up a judge! Take your time, take your time. What's it gonna be? Is there going to be a debate about you?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0260par0262	Why are you shouting, Mr. Vural? Why are you talking so loudly? So what's it gonna be?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0263par0263	You're causing it! You're the cause, you're the cause!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0264par0264	Listen to me, listen to me.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0265par0265	Isn't it the duty of this nation to ask the people's rights to be held accountable for the trespassers? Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0266par0266	You can talk all you want, so why don't you... that's one thing, that's another.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0265par0267	Theft, I mean...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0267par0268	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0266par0269	Mr. Honey, we don't have that kind of procedure, so I'm going to make a promise to the vice president of the group, please, but...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0268par0270	What about the Constitutional Commission Report?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0267par0271	This is the Constitutional Commission's report. You're saying that this report is based on a reason why the talks should not continue. It's wrong. Why is it wrong? Because that decision was made on the motion, that wasn't the motion. The motion was to end the meeting because the Justice Commission discussed the proposal and completed the proposal. Therefore, the commission report there is not a report in accordance with the motion, and as a result, it is wrong.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0266par0272	Sir, I have the commission report...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0268par0273	No, that will be the report!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0266par0274	I'm reading what the report says.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0269par0275	Here, read it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0266par0276	Our report is given with respect to the high presidency to be sent to the Justice Commission on the basis of a transfer. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0270par0278	Okay, we want that report.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0271par0279	Do what you didn't do, do what you did. We call it. You didn't do your duty!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0270par0280	Give us that report. You're gonna have to hand out that report.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0272par0281	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0273par0282	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0272par0284	As of January 10th, the proposal of the law was proposed by the Justice Commission, before the report of the transfer commission came to pass, with a personal decision by the presidents -- and according to the Civil Code, there are no such effects -- we will not discuss it. He began his work as well as his writing. As soon as these studies began there, nine members of the Constitutional Commission called for a meeting of the Constitutional Commission under the relevant Article of the Civil Charter again, giving a copy of the call to the President of the Justice Commission the day the work began. In fact, the President of the Justice Commission should have stopped this work there, but in any case and in any case, developments have been collected by the Commission, the President of the Constitutional Commission, as the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey intervenes, and he has a report. This report begins with the proposals of MP Yilmaz Tunç and 77 MPs. This report should be in this row issue. This report is in this row within the order of the Civil Code. You can't, you can't, you can't comment, you don't have that right, you don't have that authority. Therefore, you can't allow such a disgrace, such a disgrace, such a disgrace, when the text Mr. Tüt., which the government has identified, offered, is in the middle. The Turkish Grand National Assembly has never had such a disgrace in its past. I hope, and I hope that's not going to happen in your administration, that's one. Therefore, I ask you, in accordance with the law, the Constitution, and the Civil Code, to cease the work of the Commission's report until it is reprinted in accordance with the order of the number of lines; this is one. Two...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0274par0287	Three, three, three...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0272par0288	Mr. President, we have written an official letter to Mr. President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as of this morning. We're not shelf diamonds here, we're the main opposition party. We expect an official answer from the Speaker of Parliament, therefore, but it is not possible for you to give this official answer according to the Turkish National Assembly's Civil Charter. For these reasons, this meeting must not begin. What happens if you start it? If you start it, you're breaking the law. It is also the first time in history that the President intervenes when a law proposal is being discussed in parliament. I'm 50 years old. No President in the Republic of Turkey has issued a message to the public over a law discussed in parliament. In this proposal of the law, Mr. President stressed that it is not true, that the correct is a constitutional amendment, that it should be, and that it has given a message to Parliament, to your high office and to the public. Conclusion and conviction: Our first request is that these talks be stopped. If you don't stop it, if you keep going, it's irregularity, it'll have to be discussed. Furthermore, if you continue, after this procedure debate, as everyone knows, as everyone who has finished elementary school has agreed, this proposal is very clear against the Constitution of the Turkish Republic of Turkey. Nor is it possible to discuss a very open and incompatible proposal to the Constitution. There must also be an argument about this. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0275par0293	Thank you. Congressmans, since the Tali Commission passed the ten-day deadline and agreed on the main commission...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0276par0295	It's Mr. Lamb's fault, Mr. Lamb's fault.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0277par0296	It hasn't been ten days!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0275par0297	...there is no action on the report of the Constitutional Commission.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0277par0298	Mr. President, it hasn't been ten days.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0278par0299	Mr. Lamb, he was a lamb there!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0279par0300	Where's the Lamb?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0277par0301	It hasn't been ten days.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0280par0302	Yes, lawmakers, as per the verdict...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0277par0303	We're starting a formal debate, sir, about your attitude, against you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0280par0304	What attitude, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0277par0305	Against your attitude... you've announced this report, the Constitutional Commission report...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0280par0306	Sir, did you just...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0277par0307	...and as Parliament Speaker, you must hand out the report to the MPs regarding the jobs you've been referred to. You're interviewing this commission report before you hand out this report. Therefore, it is not in order. Maybe the MPs would see that report...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0281par0308	No, sir, that's not the way it works.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0280par0309	Mr. Vural, when was the transfer made?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0277par0310	Sir?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0280par0311	When was the transfer made?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0277par0312	What date was it made?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0280par0313	It was done on January 7th, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0282par0314	You're being misled by those behind you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0283par0315	Mr. President, you have no right to save money on this.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0284par0316	The Parliament Speaker's request is on the 15th.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0285par0317	It was done January 7th.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0284par0318	On the 15th of the month, the Speaker of Parliament calls for a meeting of the Tali commission, saying, "Do your work." He says, "On the 15th."
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0286par0319	Don't get played by bureaucrats. Bureaucrats save, you pay the political price.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0287par0320	You have no right to save money on this, Mr. President. If a member of the group wants to discuss the procedure, and he wants to know if there's room for 63 interviews, what kind of...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0284par0321	Is that how you're gonna appreciate it? You're the one who broke my head!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0288par0322	No, we've discussed what is... we've done it, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0287par0323	Your attitude... it's invisible. Yeah, we say no!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0284par0324	Sir, you can't argue about that.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0288par0325	But that's the way it is, you know, you don't ask him to come forward and yell and argue like you do!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0284par0326	You can't do that, you can't do that, you have no right.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0288par0327	In the first place, I told you, I'm going to open up a legal debate.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0284par0328	What kind of government is that? You're the one who's stretching the coven!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0289par0329	Sitting there doesn't give you the right to do whatever you want, it doesn't! Against you, I want a word against your attitude. Let's get him on the record.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0284par0330	Is it the way of a man who doesn't have time on the agenda? You don't know what you're talking about! This group puts the proposal first. It's a formal discussion of the subject on the agenda, don't speak until you know it!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0290par0331	Mr. Vural, we're here to learn, you're talking without knowing.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0284par0332	Don't run it by instructions, don't run it by instructions! I don't know where you got your orders.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0291par0333	Show some respect, respect!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0290par0334	Yes, lawmakers, as per the verdict...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0284par0335	Against you...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0292par0336	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0293par0337	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0294par0338	...in accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0292par0339	Just a moment, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0295par0340	I have a motion to make a statement against your attitude, and I'm starting a procedural debate. Wrong!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0294par0341	What are you discussing, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0295par0342	I'll open it...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0294par0343	What do you mean, I'm opening it. I'm saying...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0295par0344	It's about your attitude, your attitude.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0294par0345	We talked about it, it was discussed, I gave you my word.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0295par0346	We'll hand out a transfer report to the president in a report to lawmakers...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0294par0347	Sir, there will be no further discussion on a matter we've been discussing.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0295par0348	Mr. President, look, for one thing, there's no way you're going to open up a legal debate about a law proposal at the end of the agenda. Oh, you don't know about that. So that's enough lessons. Look, the Law Proposal 523 is at the end of the agenda. You can only open up a discussion on the agenda of the next issue. Right now...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0294par0349	Therefore, lawmakers will be discussed in sections after negotiations on the entire proposal have been completed and passed on to the articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0295par0350	I'm starting a formal debate...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0294par0351	I'm the one who's asking for word on the whole...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0296par0353	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0295par0354	Mr. President, I'm declaring a formal debate! This isn't a hit man's office! [[CHP and MPHP to meet in front of the bench]] Mr. President, you can't just run the House!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0357	Mr. Vural, I don't run the House for fun.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0295par0358	You're going to start a formal debate!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0359	So you can't invade the Speakership!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0295par0360	I don't know who you've been instructed to, but I'm being instructed by the law!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0361	Call him, so... you can tell him.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0295par0362	You're going to open up the debate! You're going to open up the legal debate!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0363	On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Bengi Star, Batman MP...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0295par0364	You're going to open up the legal debate!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0365	Please... I've opened it, sir, we've talked.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0295par0366	You'll open it! You'll open it! If my father came, I wouldn't leave, I swear! I don't give a shit!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0367	Stay together, stay together. No one's getting their fair share here. Please...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0298par0368	You don't have that authority!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0369	What do you mean...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0299par0370	You'll open it!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0371	What do you mean now... please?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0300par0372	How could you not open it? How could you not open it?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0373	Please, please...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0300par0374	Who the hell are you? Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0375	Now, you can't talk like that. [[Sinop MP Engin Altay has hit the President's microphone]] Oh, Mr. Altay, please... please take your seat.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0300par0378	It's not his father's farm, it's the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0379	No, no one's breaking the Civil Code. I've opened up a legal debate.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0300par0380	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0381	These words go to the transcripts, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0301par0382	Let it be noted... that your insults, your insults...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0383	We're open, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0301par0384	We're hungry. You can't, you can't!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0385	I mean, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0301par0386	There's no need to bring up the subject of a formal debate...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0387	Yes, we did.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0301par0388	So this isn't about that.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0389	We've met, we've met... please take your seats.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0302par0390	That's not gonna happen! Three groups of vice presidents are here.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0391	Please take your seat, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0302par0392	Besides, you don't have the authority! You don't have the authority, you don't have the authority!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0393	I'm not authorized to what? Please, take your seats.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0302par0394	We're not sitting down!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0303par0395	I swear I won't sit down!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0396	Don't sit down, stand up.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0304par0398	Sit down, don't sit down! Wait a minute, not like this!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0305par0399	How could it not be? This, or this, please! This place will be fine.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0297par0400	Don't sit down.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0304par0401	He's teaching the president the presidency.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0305par0402	For God's sake! Is this his father's farm?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0304par0403	But not here!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0305par0404	Sure!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0306par0405	Mr. Altay, there are other ways to avoid discussing this law. Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0305par0406	You're gonna fit in, that's what! That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0306par0407	Please!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0307par0408	Mr. President, call the group vice presidents...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0305par0409	This is the first time this has ever happened!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0306par0410	No, we're having a formal discussion, sir, so why do we have to...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0308par0411	Mr. President, you have to take a break. There's no working environment left.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0309par0412	By God, Reza Sarraf can't either!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0306par0413	No, you're talking about people you can't relate to.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0309par0414	Neither can Reza Sarraf!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0306par0415	Those words go on the record, we'll see everyone.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0310par0416	Yeah, he has that right? You don't have that right!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit05spe0306par0417	Yeah, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger. Come in, Mr. Group Vice Presidents.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0306par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. At the request of Mr. Vural, I'm opening a formal discussion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0311par0004	Against you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0312par0005	Against you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0313par0006	Against you. AHMET AYDIN (Name)- in favor.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0314par0008	It's in your favor.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0315par0009	We'll make a promise to each other, one by one from each group.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0316par0010	Mr. Altay, it's against you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0315par0011	Mr. Zozani, are you? Against, against?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0317par0012	Against you. AHMET AYDIN - Lehte.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0318par0014	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0319par0015	Lehte. Mr. Slim?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0320par0017	Mr. Altay, it's against you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0319par0018	Yes, we're also writing in favor of Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0321par0019	I'd like a word on behalf of the MHP.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0319par0020	Mustafa Elitaş, Kayseri MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0322par0025	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Right now, I think it should have something to do with whether or not the procedure discussion we're discussing should be within the scope of Article 63 of our Civil Code. Because the part about putting an issue forward or putting it behind us was discussed when the EC PARTI Group proposed that it would be contrary to the Constitution, the Civil Code, or the various rules of the Civil Law. But in our current discussion of procedure, it is stated that there is no room for discussion because the Law Proposal No. 523 is not properly prepared. Look, the valued lawmakers have stated that the 23rd article of our Civil Code has been transferred to the Commissions, essential and secondary commissions. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has referred this proposal as the main commission of the law to the Justice Commission, the Constitutional Commission and again to the Plan and Budget Commission as a subcommittee. When did he transfer it? He transferred it on January 7th. On January 10th, the Justice Commission began talks, but before that, both the Plan and Budget Commission and the Constitutional Commission used the authority vested in them by the Civil Code on January 8th, expressing their views by the president in the framework that they would not be able to discuss it, that they would not be able to discuss it on the agenda within ten days, and that they would not be able to prevent the failure of talks in the Justice Commission. However, our friends from the Constitutional Commission have signed the signature of one-third commissioner under the last joke of the 26th Amendment.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0323par0028	Oh, don't be political, be sincere.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0322par0029	We're all politicians, we're doing politics, and I'm being very sincere, and I'm being very serious. I'm a politician now, and you're a politician, and we're all doing politics, and we're trying to tell the truth as we know it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0324par0030	What truth, Mr. Elitaş, are you telling your own truth?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0322par0031	According to the latest joke of the 26th Amendment of the Civil Code, one third of its members may call for a commission agenda. This has been brought up by the Speaker of Parliament and the President of the Constitutional Commission, but within the scope of the agenda, Mr. President has proposed that our proposal for the law is not a place to discuss the legal proposal in the Justice Commission, but the members of the Commission have launched a debate on the procedure. The Constitutional Commission's report is about debate over the procedure, otherwise it is not about whether the law proposal should be discussed or not. Whether the Constitutional Commission report is in the Justice Commission report or not is not in the way the bill or proposal is discussed in this agenda report. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As a matter of fact, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, we have just discussed and agreed on a matter that was not discussed in the time required in the commissions. In that sense, I feel that my position is appropriate, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0325par0037	Thank you. Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0326par0041	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we just had a very serious discussion here. I'm a member of the Constitutional Commission, so unlike the report there, as your brother who was in those negotiations, I tried to explain something to the stand from my own power, but Mr. President, he's in a hurry, he's probably got some sort of instruction coming to him from somewhere, and he's running. So the law proposal that we're meeting is perhaps one of the most important proposals discussed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but Mr. Faithful Yakut is in a hurry to understand. Of course, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, perhaps I agree with a little bit of the fact that Mr. Faithful Yakut is an old judge. So I'm thinking about the henna cake story when I say that. Predators put in a henna cupcake to bring down the cakes, and hunters hunt the birds that come to his call. So, my dear friends, while law is being slaughtered in this House, the General Assembly, I'm afraid the fate of the law is to have a judge do it. Dear friends, Mr. Burhan Lamb has already laid flour on the line to avoid gathering this Constitutional Commission. There are serious debates in the Justice Commission, and the main objection to the opposition is that it is contrary to the Constitution. Mr. Mustafa Elitaş said that there is a commission, a commission, a commission. Look, the law doesn't just have words, it has to look at its soul. Why would he go through a separation like that? For one thing, this bill has different issues, different areas. Also, our members and your members are assigned to those commissions according to their expertise. So the Constitutional Commission will have no opinion on a law proposal regarding the violation of the Constitution? Now, when Mr. Burhan Lamb gathered this Commission, he said, "Sir, there's no point in our meeting in the Constitutional Commission, which has already been completed and married." Look, Mr. Lamb is a man who knows these things very well. If he didn't waste his time, he must have taught his students that administrative procedures can be carried out as well as consultation decisions. There, the Constitutional Commission worked a very serious shift for four and a half hours. Really, there have been very different, very important opinions. These views are meaningless, meaningless, and they are disrespectful to the Constitutional Commission and to the past of Mr. President of the Constitutional Commission Burhan Lamba. Dear friends, as well as our deputy leader of the group has said, the decision is not appropriate with the demand. The request says: "We want to discuss such a thing. There is no room for further discussion." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, what's my request? It's stuck in the air. My request has not been reached. That's what I was going to say, Mr. President. Why do you feel uncomfortable? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0327par0049	Don't shout!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0328par0050	Thank you. Engin Altay, Sinop MP.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0329par0053	Mr. Engin, if you've given up, I'll leave!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0330par0054	We're not gonna make you eat that.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0329par0055	It's okay if you follow him.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0331par0056	Just follow him.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0332par0057	Why don't you just follow it?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0333par0058	Calm down.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0334par0059	Of course, it's not possible for me to take a stand in favor of your attitude, but it's a rule. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, Mr. President is a lawyer, and there's nothing more to be said than the fact that Turkey has a ten-minute mandate to give a three-minute speech in such an important debate over a matter of public interest, Mr. President's respect for the law.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0335par0062	I mean, the disrespect!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0334par0063	Members of parliament, we have said that this proposal is unconstitutional, that the talks traffic in the commissions was conducted under the foot of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we have said that it is unconstitutional. Besides, I'll tell you first, this is the way things are done here. A member of the group has no right, no right, no right, no right, no right, no right, no right, no right, such as to reject a request of a member of the group, or of a member of parliament, according to Article 63 of the Civil Code, which governs the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. President, please, give up your attitude. Don't make this coven nervous. You're making lawmakers hurt each other because I'm going to be in charge here, and we won't let that happen, and we won't let that happen. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, friends have told me in the previous session. There's a letter from the Republican People's Party Group to the Speaker this morning. Should the Tali commission report be in the number of the law proposals in question or not? Yes or no... as a paralegal, do you or do you not need to?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0336par0067	You don't have to, you don't have to.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0334par0068	This is not necessary. That doesn't mean you're in a good mood.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0337par0069	Yeah, it's in the report. It's in the report. It's on page 15.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0334par0070	There's no line. Where do you have it? The Constitutional Commission report. The commission, one way or another, made a call. You can't just ignore it. The law is broken everywhere, sometimes it's said: "The law is to be broken." But if the law, the law, and the Constitution, cannot be broken in one place, it is this roof, we all need it, we need it, we need it all the time. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Some of the people who live around the time are sitting around, some of them are walking around, eating, swallowing, so they've made a 3Y. Is it up to you? Is it up to us? Is it up to us, lawmakers, to clear these things?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0338par0074	Bravo!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0339par0075	And it's up to you to convict them? Let the judge do his job.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0334par0076	There are thousands and millions of hungry people out there. For God's sake, let go of the political debates, the political future concerns. We are all Muslims, and when we speak, we are afraid of God.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0340par0077	We pray, we pray.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0334par0078	If you do not fear God, your prayers will not benefit you. I said: [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This corruption cannot be covered if this government brings a covering from the Kaaba. Don't struggle, don't struggle. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President will have to comply with that in his next management position. If it doesn't fit, there won't be anything good here.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0341par0083	We make it up, we make it up!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0334par0084	Nothing good happens here. (AK PARTY RINGING) But follow this...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0342par0085	Are you threatening me, Mr. Engin?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0334par0086	Yeah, I'm threatening you if you don't fit in.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0343par0087	We make it up, we make it up!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0342par0088	Are you threatening me, Engin?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0334par0089	I'm threatening you if you don't comply. What is it? Suit yourself!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0342par0091	Shame, shame! Who are you threatening? You're the President of the Group!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0334par0092	Brother, I say you'll fit in.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0344par0093	Is this about attacking the bench?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0334par0094	We'll all fit in.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0345par0095	That's fine, that's what it is, Deputy Speaker.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0334par0096	It doesn't matter if it fits.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0346par0097	I'm wondering if there's a punch in the podium.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0334par0098	Congressmans, everything would be fine if we obeyed this. Look, our president told me everything will be fine.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0347par0099	Muharrem style doesn't suit you, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0334par0100	Mr. President, I invite you to comply. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0348par0103	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Adil Zozani vs. Hakkari MP.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0349par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the day we first came to the House, we asked, we asked, how does it work here? They said, "There's a Civil Code. Read the Civil Code, it's all there. There's a guide, you can follow that guide. Let me put it this way. I read the Civil Code. One of the first texts I read in this assembly was the Civil Code. We were supposed to read it, we read it. Then we got involved in commission work, we got involved in Parliamentary work. We tried to look at where the Civil Charter is being implemented, how it's being implemented, and we saw that there's basically a Civil Code in this House, but not to apply it, but to violate it, there's a Civil Charter to go around it. It's not just about this commission. It's not just about this commission, it's on all commissions; I claim, there's not a single commission that has not been violated by the Civil Code, in this Parliament, in all commissions. I'm betting that every day, every day, every day, every day of this House, every day of the session, this Civil Code is violated. Article 37 says: "You must receive an opinion from the commission within ten days." He said, "Mr. Elitaş, according to Article 23, a transfer was made to primary or secondary commissions. It's the only thing that's right about this process, the wire transfer system, which is what commissions it's going to be transferred to. However, I'm a member of one of the incumbent commissions mentioned here, I'm a member of the Plan Budget Commission, and we've never had any information as a subcommittee.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0350par0109	We were discussing the bag.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0349par0110	We didn't know as a commissioner that such an offer was transferred to our Commission as a commission. The Constitutional Commission was not employed on a different basis. If you know nothing, if you do not notice any objections, you will look at the 47th and 48th pages of this row. You look at page 47, you look at an offer from lawmakers, page 48, one page later -- the proposal has turned into a government bill. Now, if you have a claim that there's a parallel structure here, go ahead and say it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So if the trick on these two pages is the trick of a parallel structure, come and say it, and say it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0351par0115	You're saying the parallel structure. Otherwise, we won't tell. Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0349par0116	So it's obvious that you're doing an infraction of the Civil Code, and in the current situation, frankly, as I've just said, all the rules in this House are being enforced, except the Civil Code, not the only Civil Code. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0352par0119	Yes, thank you. Congressmans, I'd like to share with you the assessment of our President at the end of the procedure debate that the Law Proposal No. 523, which we have begun to discuss, will not be added to the Constitutional Commission report, which is a subsidiary commission, due to the lack of material error in the report: Given the fact that the number of financial errors is related to encapsulation and does not have to be reprinted, there is no need to be pressed again, since the ten-day deadline for the commission has ended and the main commission report has been published and has been distributed, it has been estimated that the commission report does not need to be suppressed as an additional number of rows. Therefore, there is no change in my view.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0353par0122	Mr. President, is that possible?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0352par0128	Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this proposal will be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, after negotiations on all of the proposal have been agreed to be completed and transferred to its articles, the chapters will be discussed, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Bengi Yildiz, Batman MP, who wants a word on the whole proposal.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0354par0131	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the People's Party of Peace and Democracy. I salute you all. In the 2010 Constitution referendum, behind the government, the whole of Turkey, immediately the press, all its intellectuals and columnists supported this Constitutional bill. Right now...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0355par0133	Mayor, you've passed the law in one day, I swear to God it's good for you! You've got the group's deputy presidents, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've Oh, for crying out loud! Good for you, but not bad for you. Let them write it down... it's a disgrace. Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0356par0134	Mr. President, this is the preacher, would you invite him to rest?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0354par0135	Dear friends, friends of the CHP, if you're going to oppose me, I told you at the Justice Commission...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0355par0136	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0357par0137	Shame about what?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0358par0138	You guys go ahead.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0359par0139	Let's not be partners in this crime. You've brought us this far. And if you did, please, listen to us. An opposition...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0360par0140	Who brought it?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0361par0141	Who brought it?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0359par0142	Who brought it? In the process there... look, let's just say...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0362par0143	You brought it, you did. Why are you interfering?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0359par0144	With friends from CHP... you brought them here, you brought them here.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0362par0145	And you're silent because you're going to be exposed! (CHP rows) Silence, then listen! Yes, I'm telling you. Shame on you! Dirty!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0359par0146	You claim that you carried a clause against the Constitution from the Justice Commission to here, and you became his partner.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0362par0148	You go there!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0359par0149	You shouldn't have attended a meeting that violates the Constitution, and we shouldn't have, and we said that, and I said that.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0363par0150	You were there. Weren't you there? Weren't you there? How many times have we talked?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0359par0151	I just told you where I was.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0364par0152	What were you doing there?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0359par0153	Look, I told the CHP MPs.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0364par0154	What kind of logic is that?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0359par0155	It's that kind of logic! If it is against the Constitution, you will not participate in its meeting!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0365par0156	Mr. Bengi, we were there together.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0364par0157	Why don't you tell him there? Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0359par0158	My friends from the MP's office...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0364par0159	Shame on you! Tell him there!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0366par0160	Mr. President, there is no such method. Let the preacher speak, then...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0367par0161	Congressmans, please. Mr. Star, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0368par0163	I'm addressing the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0367par0164	I know... please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0368par0165	But I mean, if they're going to fight here, let them fight me in time, not oppose me, please.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0369par0167	Why are you talking to us!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0368par0168	You shut up! What the hell are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0370par0169	Bravo, Mr. Bengi.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0371par0170	Mr. Star, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0368par0171	You're weak, you don't know what to do with your weakness. If you're going to make an opposition, be a real opposition.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0372par0173	We'll learn from you!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0373par0174	Friends, don't get in the way of the AKP!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0374par0175	Don't look at us, look at us.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0375par0176	Mr. Tüt, we've seen you hug AKP in difficult times!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0376par0177	The government has brought this arrangement into effect on a clear and legal level of the unity of forces and the presidential system that have been actually implemented so far. We always say that there is no law, executive and judicial system that supervises each other in Turkey, because a majority of Parliaments who raise their hands without question to every regulation of the government are the judicial bureaucracy that accepts this arrangement without objection, and it is the government's duty to put the opponents in prison. However, the foundations of what we today call "parlamenter democracy" were laid out with what we call "Magna Carta Libertatum" in 1215. With this document, for the first time, the King of England has restricted his powers and granted the people some rights. With this agreement, the general rules of law have become a rule of law above the king's will and wishes, and no one will be imprisoned or deprived of property until he is tried and convicted by a fair court. Do you know how many years it's been? Eight hundred years have passed, and we still haven't carried out the same principle. In 1771, Rousseau said two hundred and fifty years ago: "If law, execution, judgment are intertwined, and freedoms are not guaranteed, there is no constitution; whoever has the powers is the ruler. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our country is in a system crisis, and we're going through a process where the rulers are fighting each other. It's a power struggle, an arm wrestling match. While the issue is a constitutional crisis, the government is trying to overcome this crisis with legal regulations. The problem is accountability, the problem of making justice work, while the government is trying to overcome the problem with an antidemocratic law. In 2010, you passed a package without taking anyone into account. We said, "Don't look for uncontrollably power, learn from the historical evil heritage." We said, "You didn't listen, the monster you created came and found you." Now you repeat the same mistake, and we know best. You say, "We know best." And you sink as you sink. We said on the first day of the Justice Commission: this arrangement is contrary to the Constitution of the 1982 coup, and we will not develop opposition over it, but this arrangement is contrary to the democratic state of law, the separation of forces, which everybody knows, the world and the European Union are calling it from a high screen. Mr. Secretary visited the groups. We said that we were ready to contribute to any kind of constitutional level, that the opposition approach in the Constitutional Compromise Commission could be carried out, and we made statements to the press about it. Today, Mr. Prime Minister -- rather, yesterday -- says that no party from the opposition came to us with a suggestion, not at the point of finding a solution on the constitutional level. Dear friends, the AKP said the same thing in 2010. We came here with five friends on the 8th article, which meant closing the party, and we voted here, and I was one of them. But when the AKP fired from the inside, he tried to get out of it by saying that five of our friends from our group at the time had voted no. After three years, again, despite our support to resolve this on a constitutional level, no one has ignored the Peace and Democracy Party and offered such a contribution, he says. In democratic countries, organized society, called civil society pressure groups, and, of course, political parties put pressure on the government with actions and rhetoric. Why would they do that? At least not to leave democracy until the election and to make democratic arrangements. What is the government's point of view now? It's about time he got stuck. As opposition, I'd like to point out that as opposition parties, we're far away from this point when we have the opportunity to force the government to come up with a constitutional solution. And with that, we've actually opened the way for the Justice and Development Party to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, who passed this law through the House, where only one person can rule. The lack of principle but pragmatic solutions of power lead to a crisis of failure to govern the country. If the opposition entered a practice where Parliament could not provide a solution to the country, without a solution power, the impact environments of the 1960s, the 1980s would be created, which would not benefit anyone. Being on the side of the AKP and the congregation means being a partner in all unlawful acts. And it's not right to expect help from this conflict. As a BDP, it is the government that has come with an election and is at the point of account. We're prepared for any democratic solution for the elimination of this structure, which is a state-owned, non-responsive murder against us, which is the primary factor in every crime, which we don't justify. The AKP government, of course, will pay for these corruptions in elections or others. So, who's going to answer for this dark structure? Didn't they do the ACK cases with the AKP? Isn't the ACK case an opening operation for the community in the area? This was in the AKP's interest because the congregation meant preparing the ground for the AKP. Thousands of people were suddenly thrown in. Our newly elected mayors, councilmen, mayors and boroughs, executives of the NGO, our lawyer friends have been in prison since 2009. A fear was created in the 1990s, just as those executed in the center of Batman, in the eyes of all others, in the 1990s, under government supervision, did it come to us? BDP did politics under these circumstances. Your judgment was swayed over us like the sword of Damocles. As if our fellow Regents in there weren't enough, you've also put pressure on Parliament over our nearly forced friends from Parliament. He told the staff of the BDP that they were parallel statesmen today. What kind of parallel government? How many governors, how many governors, how many judges and prosecutors are there in the state? How many guns did you catch when they locked them up? One piece of evidence, phone calls, and made-up confidential witnesses. Now the phone calls of the Prime Minister and Fethullah Smiley are being disclosed. Laughing, according to those records, he looks at tenders and business purchases, brokers, directs, and not this one, but this one. KCK trials started in 2009, and now it's 2014. A theatre, such as Diyarbakır trials in the 1980s, is exhibited. Despite the Supreme Court's decision on long imprisonment, there is an organised structure in the judiciary. Aren't we going to go back and ask the AKP and this structure to account for this persecution? Aren't you going to pay for the years you stole from us? Another victim of this gang is part of the trial of Ergenekon and Sledgehammer. I'm saying part of it because we have killers in that building, and we know it. This case and the Ergenekon case are just like the bag of laws. Whoever's against it, throw it in the basket. In the end, a freaky case came up that hurt your public conscience. In this case, the subject of trial is criminal, attempted coup against the government. Oh, how sweet of you! Don't you know that some of the perpetrators here are responsible for silence, impacts on life, dozens, tens of thousands of perpetrators, thousands of village evacuations? Is it not this organization that is in Sivas, in Çorum, in the slaughter of Alevi, in the slaughter of Marash, and in the slaughter of Alevi? You know that. Why are you suing and suing for attempted murder instead of crimes committed? Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the AKP supporters, were saying that we were not interested in the Ergenekon case. We went to Silivri, Mr. Group Deputy President Pervin Buldan, Mr. Ahmet Türk, Mr. Osman Baydemir, Mr. Akin Birdal, the family of Diyarbakır Governor Aydın. Our murdered MP Mehmet Sincar. The court under the influence of the congregation there and the AKP has ignored thousands of unsolved murders and has denied all of these requests for intervention. Now, what's the main reason for this, this rejection? Because if we dig up the bottom of this process and go to Kurdistan, we can also come out of it. If you scrape too much, we know what comes out of it. As of yesterday, who did you bring to the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister, dear friends? You've replaced Mr. Efkan Ala. A man who had a very nice conversation with Veli Küçük on the phone, who came from the Undersecretary of Justice. What did he say at the phone call? Veli is meeting with Small. - Hello. - He's the handsomest of them all. - Sleep, the greatest of ministers, the most beautiful of ministers! He was a temporary minister before 2007. - Happy holidays, happy holidays. - You embarrassed me, I was going to call. - Don't mention it, Pasha. How are you? Are you all right? - We're in the village, we've sacrificed the lady, we're dealing with her. - Oh, how nice. - It's Bayram, where are you? - I cut my victim in Ankara, if God wills it. - May God accept it. - Amen. First phone call. This is the second phone call: - I'd like to speak with the Balkans' greatest prosecutor and its greatest minister. - They are the handsomest pasha in the Middle East and the Balkans! - A girl with my village will take the judge's exam... - Is his Uncle Veli a guarantor? - My butterfly, sir. - Well, we'll vouch for him then. - When you vouch for him, it's over. He says he's replaced by Mr. Efkan Ala. These will go after Ergenekon, the unsubs, and they will judge them because of the tens of thousands of unsubs, for the evacuation of the village, will consult the Prime Minister! Well, we're in a system like this, dear friends. We offered it to the Justice Commission, and we said, "The Constitutional Compromise Commission has the HSYK debates, talks that the opposition has brought to a point. The AKP isn't far from it either. Let's walk over it and come up with a solution. We'll diversify resources based on the arrangement there. These will come to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, which will pass through the first election at its source, then will come to Parliament, and Parliament will choose again and again two thirds of the time, so that we will not be a political bias representative in partisans, but as in 2010, we will be laying down the foundations of neutral, independent judiciary. We believe neither the government nor the opposition has shown sufficient effort. What we're here today is how the presidential system is applied to HSYK. Let's just say that you're creating a monster in the opposition we had here three years ago, and we said that the monster would devour you, and the bureaucratic state wouldn't do anyone any good. Now you reap what you sow. This law you have brought is not an acceptable law in any of the world's systems. You're creating a new monster. I'm saying we'll see it all come back to you in other hands in no time. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, as the Peace and Democracy Party, we call this law, this bill, this proposal, no. We say we're not going to be anywhere, we say we're not going to be partners in any way, and we warn those who are hoping for help, and we say that this law will take you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0377par0220	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0378par0221	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0377par0222	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0378par0223	Mr. Speaker, since April 23, 1920, he has made a statement, probably the first in the history of Parliament, saying that this law was brought here by the Republican People's Party. Because, despite being contrary to the Constitution, he participated in the talks on the Commission. Then he's part of it. This is the first time such an announcement has been made, it's the first time in the history of politics.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0379par0224	Don't make fun of me. Speak from the stand, Mr. Tünce.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0378par0225	I mean, a party can't be blamed for joining the Commission.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0379par0226	Let him speak on the throne.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0380par0227	We're giving it to the members of the group, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0378par0228	Besides, I meant to explain it to you, but there's one line that says it's teasing.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0379par0229	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0378par0230	He said: "The People's Party of the Republic can't resist. " He can't argue with CHP. You'll probably appreciate that his word is a taunt. Mr. Batum will speak for our group.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0379par0232	It's personal, Mr. President, give me a say! It's taken on his word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0381par0233	Here you go, Mr. Batum. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0382par0236	There's bullying. They're coming at us instead of coming at them!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0383par0239	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as Mr. Bengi Star began to speak, I thought, for the first time, we fought the same thing as Mr. Bengi Star, and we thought the same thing, he wouldn't be able to say anything to the Republican People's Party. How he did it, how he did it, he finally connected it to us.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0382par0240	Bravo!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0384par0241	You didn't make me talk, Mr. Batum.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0383par0242	Dear friends, Mr. Bengi Star, Mr. Bengi Star...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0384par0243	I mean, people from the government's wing were going to stand up to me, but the People of the CHP are doing something.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0385par0244	What are you talking about? Sit down!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0383par0246	Dear brother, it's okay...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0386par0247	Mr. Star, please sit down.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0383par0248	Wait a minute... Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0387par0250	Don't say too much!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0388par0251	Mr. Star, Mr. Star...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0383par0252	Mr. President, this is the law.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0388par0253	Mr. Star, please...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0389par0254	Don't fucking move!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0383par0255	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, all of us, as this law is being discussed in the Commission, we have said that there is a violation of the Constitution, a violation of the Constitution, a violation of the Constitution, a violation of the Constitution, as well as the principle; and we will not tire of it. This is the same struggle that all of our colleagues, who were in charge of the Commission, had been beaten by a judge there, and we said, "This law clearly violates the Constitution." Other than that, we didn't make a single motion to correct it because it was clearly against the Constitution. Now, Mr. Bengi Star was there with us as we fought this whole battle; if we were accomplices, he was an accomplice, and if we fought back, he fought back. The MHP people, our friends were there. Now, are MHP MPs accomplices? Do they accept that they are complicits in this law?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0390par0257	What accomplice, brother? What does that mean?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0383par0258	We, together, fought against this law. But I'm telling you...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0391par0260	Don't involve us.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0390par0261	There's bullying.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0383par0262	I'm on sale. Why do I pick on you? If we're accomplices, you're accomplices.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0392par0263	We want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0383par0264	I'm making that very clear. But let Mr. Bengi Star know that we are a 90-year-old party, and we are not accomplices, and neither are you. We defied this law, and I wanted to stress it specifically. Dear Bengi Star, I hope you will speak of this again on purpose. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0393par0268	Thank you, Mr. Batum.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0394par0269	Why are you getting us involved, Mr. Suheyl?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0395par0270	Mr. President, the speaker has declared the National Movement Party an accomplice.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0393par0271	Did Mr. Batum pick on you?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0395par0272	Yes, Mr. Batum picked on me.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0393par0273	Here you go, Mr. Honey. And I promise you two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0396par0275	We'll be bullied, too, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0397par0277	Mr. President, not only did the National Movement Party in the Justice Commission and the Constitutional Commission stand up against the Constitution, but the democratic parliamentary system and not only the democratic parliamentary system, but the rule of law, which is the greatest concept that humanity has developed, but it has put up a fight in every article that is appropriate for its reputation in the Justice Commission. But while the Republican People's Party, Mr. Batum blames us, he's been played by the Justice and Development Party. The Justice and Development Party repeatedly wanted to fight against the National Movement Party's claims of violation of the Constitution, to avoid arguing about it, and CHP responded, and therefore, for two days, the MPs of the Republican People's Party did not employ the Justice Commission at the point of violation of the Constitution; the pet waters, iPadECs have been in the air, and the Commission has not been a commission. There's nothing wrong with us. There's nothing wrong with us. We followed the three-foot rule, there was no one within three feet of us, but you guys got into a fight. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0398par0279	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0399par0280	Mr. President, there's no such thing as a commission. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0398par0281	Please, Mr. Batum.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0399par0282	That didn't happen, Mr. President. According to Article 69, we have the right to explain something that is wrong. So, now that you've had a fight, he says, and therefore, we need to explain it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0400par0283	You did, Hajji.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0398par0284	You didn't fight, he picked on you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0399par0285	We didn't, exactly.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0398par0286	Here you go, Mr. Batum. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0399par0288	Mr. President, now, if a law is so contrary to the Constitution as today's law, you all know this -- we rightly stated in the commission that it is contrary to the Constitution, which is fundamentally against the Constitution. Now, my dear President, you are still continuing to violate the Constitution. You decide which commission you're going to go to, when the Parliament Speaker has decided, when you've sent it to the Constitutional Commission, you've decided that 48 hours have passed without waiting for the Constitutional Commission's decision. We didn't fight because you did all of this; we just said that it was unconstitutional, without a project party, as a 90-year-old party, as the Republican People's Party, we did not tirelessly say that it was unconstitutional. If there's been a fight, you're in it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0401par0290	We're out.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0399par0291	You're all in.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0401par0292	We don't exist, we followed the three-foot rule.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0399par0293	If it was a fight, you guys did it. We didn't tell you to fight, we said they're arguing against the Constitution. We just claimed a violation of the Constitution. We say it again, we say it again, we say it again, as it is against the Constitution, it is against the Constitution that we now discuss it. (CHP) We should have waited forty-eight hours, but one contradiction was the Speaker of Parliament. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit06spe0402par0296	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0402par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 523. [[Continue]] The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0403par0009	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0402par0010	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0403par0011	Mr. President, just for the record... Suheyl Batum used something like a party-fighting party about our party.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0402par0013	No, he said you're not a party.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0403par0014	Yes, we have a fight; we have a fight with corrupters, separatists, money launderers. This fight has been an honorable duty of 45 years of the National Movement Party, history has written it. So I'd like to say that our fight was with them.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0402par0015	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0404par0016	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0402par0017	Yes, Mr. Young, please.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0404par0018	Mr. President, I have a motion there that the entire bill is contrary to the Constitution. At what stage do you...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0402par0019	We'll answer, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0404par0020	In what phase are you going to process it?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0402par0021	We'll answer later.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0404par0022	What are you going to say?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0402par0023	I'll make a statement before the vote, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0404par0024	No, in Article 87, it clearly violates the Constitution of a bill or all of it...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0402par0025	Copy that, sir, and read the 88th before the vote, please. Before we vote, I'm gonna...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0404par0026	What does it have to do with 88? It says in Article 87: One clause of a bill or all of it...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0402par0027	Mr. Young, you asked me, when are you going to process it? I said, "Before you vote." Yes, now, Faruk Bal, MP for the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0405par0030	Tell me about these new tapes, Mr. Secretary, they just came out!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0406par0031	Mr. President, I'm here to announce the views of the National Movement Party on Law Proposal 523. I salute the grand jury. My dear friends, we all know that this bill began on December 17th, in the wake of the ongoing corruption, corruption, bribery, money laundering operation, in the wake of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, the poet says, "I'll go up to the sky, I'll watch the world, I'll come down to the earth, I'll watch the world." I wish our AKP MPs would come backstage and talk to me, and we could go up to the sky together and see what's going on on on the earth together. They don't exist, but we'll take a ride together. With this December 17th operation, 1) An investigation has been launched into the rights of the ministers on charges of taking bribes. More serious than that, the ministers have made their own children their means of taking bribes. 2) Building corruption has been committed. 3) Black money laundering has been done. 4) Terrorist support activities have been carried out. While this is all happening, we're also looking at a tragicly graphic photograph. In this tragic photo, the organs of the state, look, how? Cops from smuggling, organized and financial agencies are tracking the corrupter, tracking the black money guy, tracking the tech, videoing, moving money in their cars. While the financial police are detecting them, the fiscal police are following the police intelligence department's teams. The corrupter is followed by the fiscal police, the head of the smuggling branch, and while the intelligence department branch teams are following him, the intelligence branch director's teams are still following the police, smuggling, organised and financial branch. That's the state, the state's organs. Now, what's the evidence behind this funny picture? Millions of dollars coming out of the shoe box, detected. It's being bribed with a chocolate box, it's being detected. There are cash registers in the bedroom, they're being detected. There's a million dollars in the cab trunk, it's being detected. There's a million dollars in her backpack when she's passing through the airport, and it's a photo. Now, what's a crime like that supposed to be? Consider other countries: The King of Spain said: "We have respect for the law, because of the claim that the princess, the daughter of the king of Spain, was an instrument of tax fraud. My daughter will go, and she will answer in front of the law. In Germany, the President telephones a reporter: "Don't report this." When this comes out, the President will have to resign. Greece is similar, and Japan is similar. What happened to us? We have an account to settle with you. The Prime Minister has threatened us. The first thing, including his sentence, was that the officers, officers, teamakers, and officers of the police who performed this operation were relieved of duty overnight, and as a result, all those involved in this operation were laid off from the Istanbul police. The prosecutor was laid off, the prosecutors were banished. This was not satisfied, but the Law on Punishment with the Law of the Judiciary Law has been changed, the principle of the separation of powers of the Constitution has been changed; the principle of independence, neutrality of a judge has been changed; the concept of law and rule of law has been defined as the highest value that humanity has ever achieved. And while all this was happening, my dear friends, you couldn't come down to the earth and watch your purmelal, and if you had come down to the earth and watched your purmelal, you brought up this law in order to protect your followers in an operation that he himself was involved in today's evening, in which all of God's attributes had been combined. How are you going to protect it? You've changed the police, replaced the police officers of 16 counties, replaced hundreds of branch managers, replaced thousands of police officers. There is a conclusion that you have performed police operations outside of Istanbul, in Ankara, in Adana, in Bursa, in Samaria, in Tripoli, in Malatya, in Mersin, in Sakarya, in İzmir, in Antwerp, in Hatay, in Erzurum, in Diyarbakir, in Diyarbakir, and in Antalya. This means that in all of these provinces there are scum that have been infected by the AKP. In all these provinces, you're already deposed of police officers who have been technically following, taping, and video proof to change evidence there, as a precautionary measure. Now, the Minister of Justice, he left three days ago before that law came out, visited the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors. He stayed there for an hour, and an hour later -- Mr. Secretary, now perhaps he will answer them -- to the appointment of HSYK 1. Two members of his apartment were sent to an apartment other than his duties, two from another apartment, not to touch the zülfüyar, and a member was brought in. He's a member of the apartment. What happened when it was done? Here's the thing: an hour after that change, he was removed from the office of the prosecutor who ran 20 corruption operations. Today, the same apartment, which was played by members, issued a decree containing 97 judges and prosecutors. So, my dear friends, you are trying to find a way to silence the judge, silence the judge, to silence the existing, proven corruption, to believe in the rule of law, the rule of law, the independence of the courts, the neutrality of the courts. You will not find a cure for this because these signs have been seen by our people, and these evidences have been seen by the world. We've become the world's most important newspapers, agencies, televisions have become news reports about corruption operations in Turkey, and you've disgraced Turkey, the Turkish nation in this way. That's not how you interrupted the first wave operation. You've made worse mistakes in the second wave operation on Bilal Erdogan. You have relieved the İstanbul Police Commissioner of the detention and detention of the prosecutor's decisions so that the police would not meet them; instead, the Prime Minister took a governor on a private plane to Istanbul; he probably didn't stand idle on the plane, he gave the necessary instructions, which he was made by İstanbul County Security Director. According to evidence gathered against Bilal Erdogan, Kalyonci, Topbaş, the prosecutor's court decision, he did not meet 45 people's search, measure and detention warrants. This may be the first time in our Republic history. You may be able to violate a law enforcement officer who you have appointed to rule that every state body of the Constitution is under the command of the judiciary, and you may be able to keep a bowl of it, and you may be able to threaten the prosecutor who ordered it with your account. The threat doesn't stop, you send a threatening message to Prosecutor Oz. You send two of your men in Bursa. And with threats like this, you think you're going to cover up these scum and corruption.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0407par0048	Their job is to deny the power.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0406par0049	The third wave operation is coming. It has a name, it doesn't exist because you've been shoveled over the police, you've been shoveled over the judiciary; the state's judgment has become unworkable, the police has become unworkable, you've removed technical follow-up cops, technical-following branch managers, you've removed from duty. But something else happened, and now we're dealing with truck operations. What are you carrying with the trucks? You're saying: "Help the Turks." says Hüseyin Abdullah, the 2nd president of the Turkishmen's communities in Syria: "We were unable to get any help from this AKP except persecution." Here, the Turkmen were expelled from the camp two days ago, 160 Turkishmen children were expelled from the camp this winter in this apocalypse. My dear friends, you must measure this bill with conscience, with the wisdom, logic, understanding, and conscience bestowed upon you by the honorable lawmakers of God. In the framework of your party discipline, as I've just said, if you do it to protect the president of this world and the other world, who you are bound to associate with God, who you pledge to, you will have the hand of an orphan. Prohibition is forbidden, and bribery is forbidden, and the right to an orphan is forbidden. It is unlawful not to say forbidden. So you're going to raise your hand and take out this law in this world, perhaps for Iqbal.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0408par0051	We'll do it with honor!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0406par0052	And how are you going to face a man who has the right on the other side?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0409par0053	In the middle, in the middle, in the middle...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0406par0054	How will you look upon the face of God, the Lord of the Hereafter? How are you going to get past what's on my desk in the afterlife?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0409par0055	Biatians don't know that stuff, you beaters! Biatians don't know that!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0406par0056	My dear friends, I would like to believe that the conscience will come to the forefront of the mind and that you will act within this framework, but I would also like to say that my hope is weak in the debates that have just been made and the unlawful practices that Mr. President has done. This bill is contrary to the Constitution, we have stated it is contrary 100,000 times, not only for four articles, but Mr. President said that ten days had passed in the Constitutional Commission. Tell me, Mr. President, according to what? If you take January 11th, Burhan Lamb did not come to me on January 11th. He says, "He came to me on January 13th."
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0409par0058	Mr. Secretary, talk of law, talk of theft! There's a law back home?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0406par0059	I mean, you're like ostriches, you're like birds, you're like camels. My dear friends, this proposal violates the 138th Article of the Constitution, it violates the 139th Amendment of the Constitution, it violates the 140th Article of the Constitution, it violates the 159th Article of the Constitution. Most importantly, for your conscientious accounting, there are hundreds of corrupters in prison today, hundreds of thieves, hundreds of corrupt people.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0409par0061	They're poor, poor people!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0406par0062	They too are citizens of this country, and they will have a demand, in the framework of equality law, not to be convicted of these crimes, tied to the hands of the judiciary and the law. What are you going to tell them?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0409par0063	They are the uppermost and the superior.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0406par0064	So this is also contrary to the principle of equality in the 10th article of the Constitution. So this proposal, which you have made to ensure that all those who are on your side of power are not responsible for any action against the law, is also contrary to Article 10 of the Constitution. The Constitution violates Article 2 of the Constitution. Article 2 states that Turkey is a state of law. I don't count what's in its head. What kind of legal state? What's the state of law if it doesn't work? So, with this law, you also eliminate the rule of law. It is not only against these articles, but against the Constitution's word, which is contrary to its essence. Now, once again, let me repeat the picture that's come up: it's been identified with bribery evidence, photos, tapes, tracking, detection. Corruption has been detected, but there are two other findings: one of them is Iranian money laundering. The second is carrying arms to the terrorist organization, Al Qaeda, Al Nusra, because of truck operations. You can handle the first one in Turkey, we don't know where the result goes, it's on your conscience, but you can't handle the second one, so aiding the black money and terrorist organization, even if you shut it down in Turkey, it's going to open up in international places. Come, let the state of law run, let Turkey look at it with its own laws, its own institutions, its own organs, and conclude that the foreign operations should not be condemned by Turkey. Do not condemn Turkey to the trial of foreign countries, foreign international organisations. If you condemn Turkey to this, there will be two more consequences; I say this, today, here, in 2010: just as we said when the Constitution was being changed, this will come out. If you try to shut down terrorist truck operations and money laundering operations with this law, you'll be faced with international organizations, and we'll see two separate possibilities that they'll bring out. That is, if international organisations start a process associated with focus, black money and terrorism, international funds and money markets immediately take action and draw hot money from Turkey. In this process, you can also choose a protagonist, you can start seeing each other in Imralı, Oslo, and you can go down the mountain today, and you can start a riot that's organized in cities within the TK frames, set up law enforcement units, set up courts, is at the level of autonomy, and you can take it to a point where the rope of Turkey will be pulled. Why do you not see such a terrible situation? Why don't you see such a painful truth? Is that all you are tied to this country? Don't you ever have a conscience, a love of country in your heart, a place in your brain that can find the truth of this country? My dear friends, I want to hope and wish that the Justice and Development Party will also listen to your conscience, and there will be worthy MPs in the presence of God to measure this law. With their votes, this bill will be eliminated in this Parliament without causing a great deal of trouble to Turkey, and will be eliminated within the system based on Turkey's rule of law, independence of justice, neutrality and judicial guarantees... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that this bribe will be taken care of, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0410par0070	Thank you. Now, Ali Riza Ozturk, MP for the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0411par0073	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the method and technique of law enforcement in the state of law, first and foremost, must be in accordance with the law. The method used by bandits in the legal state is not used, but is clearly written in the Constitution and in the relevant rules of law on how laws should be made. What we're talking about is, in a sense, a bill of law, because we see it from the number of rows that we have distributed, where it says the government's proposal. Actually, I think it's true that our group's vice presidents had the wrong objection about that because it's actually the government's proposal. Only the MPs signed it as a formality. Why did they bring what should be the government's bill as an offer? They brought the law in to get around, because our friends who signed that offer couldn't even explain the motion on the Commission, and the whole... the minister was there. My dear friends, now, there's been a lot of unlawfulness in the Justice Commission. I believe that the President of the Justice Commission, who I truly believe has a respectable place in the legal community, had to put both the procedure and the fundamental violation of the law at the head of the Commission, aside from the talks he had made at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. He was in a hurry, there's no way to tell. He was the first head of the Commission's actions; he pointed to people, which would probably be useful to someone. Now, here, on the Council of Parliament, the unlawfulness of this proposal has dominated again. So Turkey isn't a state of law, it's a type of state that we don't know about. Dear lawmakers, now in the state of law, the law, in fact, is made from the need of law to meet the needs of the state of law, not by the demands of politics or the demands of power. The reason these laws are made is because the mandate of the legislature is to meet the needs of society and the legal state. But in the Justice and Development Party's rule -- I've been in Parliament for two semesters -- the laws are made not to respond to the needs of the legal state, but to respond to the demands of the legal state, politics, governance, and even the Prime Minister's demands. If the House is being undermined by this aspect of its reputation, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Prime Minister's -- Recep Tayyip Erdogan's -- is being made a means to see his personal needs somewhere, and I want to say that I'm very sorry. If the country is not already ruled by law in one country, it is ruled by persecution. If Turkey is a state of law, the basis of this legal state is the separation of forces. The principle of separation of forces is the basis of the state of law, and the state of law is the essence of democracy. That's the first part of your understanding of whether democracy exists in a country: is there a legal state or not? The answer to the question is whether the powers are based on separation or not the state structure? In other words, the state of law is defined according to whether or not it is possible for law and execution to be supervised by the judiciary. If Turkey is a state of law, it is necessary to be a state of law, not to be subjected to custody of national will, as the Prime Minister said, but to be a state of law. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's always been discussed here, called the rule of law, that we bring problems in the judiciary to dominate the rule of law. In fact, the basis of the problems we face in the judiciary today is the problems caused by practice. Of course there are problems with the legislature. It is of course a problem that Parliament has to make the law according to the need of politics and act carelessly in accordance with the need of politics when it has to change the law it made a year ago, but it is only a fraction of the amount of the problems we face in the judiciary. The biggest number of problems in the judiciary are the problems caused by practice. Judges and prosecutors are lawyers in charge of implementing the rules of law, but those problems arise if the lawyers who are in charge of upholding the law don't apply the law. Now, there have been a lot of regulations made during this period of judgment. We all remember, 13. The High Criminal Court has filed a lawsuit against the judges and prosecutors of that court, Mr. Haberal, as the court, known as Ergenekon Court, issued an unjust warrant. The legal department sentenced him to compensation. In Turkey, each professional group can be held responsible for events that are responsible, but the Supreme Court 4. The legal department's decision was approved by the Supreme Court General Assembly, and Mr. Prime Minister didn't blame the judges and prosecutors at that time because those judges and prosecutors were his judges in the statement of Mr. Prime Minister -- in the face -- were his judges, his prosecutors. To protect them from compensation, in September 2011, they brought this amendment to the Judges and Prosecutors' Law in Article 93/A to protect them. They said: "There is no case of compensation against judges and prosecutors, even if it is based on personal flaws, unjust verbs or other responsibilities. " My dear friends, in this country, lawyers, doctors, engineers, every professional group is responsible for their wrongful actions, their responsible actions, but knowingly, knowingly, why do you keep a judge separate from responsibility? Now you're starting to regret it. My dear friends, I don't understand why we're discussing this law now in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Because in the Constitutional referendum on September 12, 2010, we all know that there were three fundamental clauses -- the closure of political parties, the structure of HSYK, the structure of the Constitutional Court, and the three fundamental issues were the difference between opposition and power. The closure of political parties, this fell to Parliament, and there are two remaining elements: the structure of the HSYK, and the structure of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional amendment has been made in this House. The Constitutional Amendment was restructured with Article 159 of the Constitution, and the Law on Judges and Prosecutors was passed in accordance with it. Now, I'm going to read, the ruling party speakers, the Commissioner, the Minister, what he said, what they're doing now, they're doing the opposite; the same Commission, most of them the same MPs, the same Commissioner. Yeah, well, it's a little embarrassing, isn't it? So you don't have to say the opposite of what you said two years ago. The Minister said that -- then Sadullah Ergin -- said Bekir Bozdağ as AKP Group Deputy President on this stand. Now, they're doing a hundred and eighty degrees the opposite of what you said. What kind of legal arrangement is that? Then the reason he came to the agenda was because of the HSYK and the Minister's conflict, the conflict of power. Now, the reason this came up is because after the break-in on December 17th, after the corruption incident...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0412par0083	Bribery...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0411par0084	...The government, the Prime Minister, understood that these judges and prosecutors were not their judges and prosecutors, but other people's; and now they are members of what they used to call the serviceman. So, he said exactly the opposite of what he said three years ago to do this liquidation, and my dear friends brought this arrangement. Good, good, but we don't need this arrangement anymore. You've already done your job at HSYK; I don't know how you did it, but you've done it. 1. You changed two men from the apartment -- I don't know what you promised -- 1. You've formed the structure of the circle. You threw away all the prosecutors and judges who conducted those corruption, theft investigations, and today you've issued a decree -- again a lot of judges and prosecutors. In fact, by order of the Attorney General of the Minister of Justice, stop this investigation. What he calls the Izmir Public Prosecutor Hüseyin is being sent to Chief Samsun. Let me read it right away, my dear friends: I got a call from the Undersecretary. - the undersecretary of the current Minister of Justice - after asking such a question...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0412par0085	Why isn't the Undersecretary here today?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0411par0086	After that, he demanded that this investigation be stopped immediately, that the relevant Public Prosecutor be replaced, that he wait in his office, that the result be reported to him. In response, he insisted, even though I explained to him that it was not against the law and the law. After four minutes of interview, he insisted that I stop the investigation again, ask the court to withdraw his decisions from the law and change the Public Prosecutor's office, and then hang up the phone again, saying he was waiting for an answer. Hüseyin Chief, İzmir Chief Public Prosecutor. Now, I don't know if he's picking up or not, but I'm waiting for an answer from that Undersecretary of Justice. My dear friends, but Mr. Sadullah has made it clear in this Parliament that neither the Turkish people nor the honorable Turkish judges and prosecutors are in a position to honor the slightest suggestion from the outside, it is an injustice to them. But you see that our Undersecretary -- which he came to perform -- came to be a triggerman, who came to cover up corruption, who came to be a lawyer.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0413par0089	The Minister has given instructions, the Minister is in charge, the Minister is in charge.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0411par0090	My dear friends because this political power has taken the undersecretary he brought in, the undersecretary of the Sadullah Ergin era. I don't know whose it is.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0414par0091	Your contact is the Minister, he did it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0411par0092	My dear friends, look, what did I say when the previous HSYK Act was being discussed, what did they say? I said, "Mr. Minister, I think you're satisfied with the structure of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, which you've created using the power of the Ministry of Justice in the time of advanced democracy. From now on, I hope and wish that we don't have these crisis decrees that we've been living through every year in your last two years. My dear friends, today the AKP is in power. That's right, you're having your glorious days. I, of course, congratulate you on your success. I mean, I'm not being the least sensitive about it, but I just want to say that on the way up, the systems you set up when you were on top, it's going to hurt you, too. So when you're building a judicial system, I want you to look at it and see if it's really appropriate for the needs of democratic society, not for your own political opinion or for your followers. While the same law is being discussed, this bill -- the bill that AKP is now trying to lift -- aims to further consolidate the coup law of September 12th in this country. In fact, I sincerely want to do this. I'd like it to be in accordance with the statement of the September 12th coup, and that argument to be carried out, but on the contrary, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors bill further strengthens the coup law of September 12th. After a coup thirty years ago, this bill is part of the action plan of a civil coup thirty years later. Therefore, it is a crime to defend this bill, which is part of the action plan of this coup. I said, my dear friends. That's what's in the reports. It's in the transcripts. At the point where we are now, the Prime Minister of a state of law says it will be done to the prosecutor and to the gendarme. Again, without my permission, he cannot look at what MIT is bringing and what it is taking. Who says that? The Prime Minister of Turkey, who claims to be a legal state, says so. In fact, if Turkey had a state of law, they would say, "Who are you?" Again, Mr. Prime Minister says that the trial of St. Yıldırım of Fenerbahçe should be confirmed in the Supreme Court: "My dear, what is it now that they have approved this; if they had waited until March 30th!" he says, "If they had deceived the nation." Dear lawmakers, in fact, the Prime Minister has been having problems with the judiciary from a long time ago, but those problems have stopped for a while. Why did it stop? He's doing well with the judge and the prosecutors he thinks he is. Now, he's organized, don't worry, he's moving his thing, but the reason this bill has come here is because they've been living in partnership with the structure they call the gang until yesterday. Mr. Bekir Bozdağ has come out on this council bench. Fethullah Gulen is a valuable asset raised by this country. You love him, you don't love him, but he's a valuable man, a wise man. He serves to bring up generations of national and spiritual values in this country. When you look at the services that are open, open, under the supervision of the state, in view of everything, you will do a great injustice to him if you accuse him of any prosecutor's claim that he is a person without a conviction.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0415par0096	Now he's Hashishi, Hashishi...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0411par0097	My dear friends, this is the word of Hussein Steel. Look, he said that in 2012. Huseyin Çelik says that the court has infiltrated the state. The crows laugh at it! Does the congregation have a record? We've lived with this paranoia for years. Would a man possess something of his own? The congregation has taken over the state, infiltrated the state. They are laughed at by crows! My dear friends, then, why are you talking about parallel construction now, if the congregation hasn't taken over the state? Now, that's what the Prime Minister said today: we've seen that in history. We lived in the Great Seljuk State. We've lived and seen a nation centuries ago how an angry secret organization called Hashishis tried to take over the state's system, how it would work with the enemy if necessary. The Republic of Turkey will never allow these sneaky forces to pass through leaks aimed at paralyzing the state's body. Here are the words of Davutoglu, about Fethullah Gulen, full of praise. Here are the Prime Minister's words about Fethullah Gulen. Just two years ago. Again, the words of the Minister of National Education Çelik. The transcripts of the meeting with Fethullah Gulen. Guys, do you have to call what you said yesterday all that shit today? But, dear lawmakers, it is known to everyone that this bill is actually a bill to cover up theft, cover up corruption. In fact, there's no point in adding dust to dust, the public sees everything. He sees the safes coming out of the bedroom, the money coming out of the shoebox. I know I have a lot of friends in the Justice and Development Party MPs who won't be involved in these corruptions, and I know that I have friends who won't be a tool to these illegalities. This Parliament is a parliament with an honorable past, which has ruled the War of Salvation against imperialism in its past. This Parliament has often seen lawmakers who have fallen down in history, leaving aside their ideology, political thinking and party ties, when our democracy and our legal state are in trouble. And now it's time to go down in history. This Parliament is tested by law, it is tested by democracy; it is tested by law, by justice. This Parliament, today, will perpetuate the rule of law or the law of the superior. I know very well that my AKP deputy friends in law and democracy are not really the means of covering up corruption and that this law and democracy will not be part of it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0416par0107	Thank you. Yilmaz Bronzeç, MP for the Justice and Development Party Group.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0417par0110	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on behalf of the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Law and the entire Law Proposal to Change Some Laws. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. Speakers of opposition parties who spoke before me said the proposal was contrary to the Constitution. First of all, I would like to point out that the proposal is not contrary to the Constitution for reasons which I will explain in a moment. Our proposal for the law is in accordance with Article 159 of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, which has been approved by our nation through a referendum on September 12, 2010. So no one can tell us that we're going back from the September 12, 2010 referendum. The offer we are meeting does not change the HSYK arrangement that our nation accepted in 2010. On the contrary, there are amendments to the Constitution in matters that our nation has authorized by law in 2010. As an EC PARTY, what we stand for in the 2010 Constitutional Amendment is what we stand for today. At the time, we were arguing that the judgment was no one's backyard, and today we're defending the same thing. We were against the militant judgment then, and now we're against it. At that time, we wanted everyone to abide by the rule of law and separation of forces, and today we want it. At the time, we wanted the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors to be made by a pluralist structure by judges and prosecutors across the country, and not by 120 high judges in Ankara. We want the same thing today. The amendments to the proposal are in accordance with Article 159 of the Constitution's referendum. Article 159 states that the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors will be appointed to serve on the basis of the independence and judicial guarantees of the courts, and the structure and duties of the Council are counted in detail.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0418par0112	You're just trying to cover up your own corruption.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0417par0113	In our constitution, the Court's legal and administrative judges and prosecutors have been accepted, appointed and transferred, temporary authorization, upgraded, and first class dissolution, staff distribution...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0418par0114	You're giving it all to the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0417par0115	If you listen, you'll understand. ...prescribed that he will make decisions on those who are not considered fit for employment, he will conduct disciplinary action, he will conduct suspension procedures, the Ministry of Justice will decide on a court's proposals for the removal of a court or the change of the judiciary, and he will carry out other tasks given by the Constitution and law. I'm asking those who criticize that the board is being appointed to the minister, and I'm asking you: Look at the duties of this Constitutional Council -- you have the Constitution ahead of you. Can you tell me which one of these missions is giving the chairman of the board to the Minister of Justice? You can't.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0419par0118	All of them.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0417par0119	The final joke of 159 is clear: the selection of board members, the formation of apartments and the work department, the duties of the board and the apartments, the meetings and decision-making numbers, the working procedures and the basics...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0419par0120	Shame on you, don't tell me, Mr. Yilmaz as a lawyer!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0417par0121	Listen, Hajji, you've come to my constitutional lessons. Look, you'll understand too. Open the end of 159, and there are certain things that can be arranged by law in 159.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0420par0123	You say things you don't believe.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0421par0124	Mr. Bronze, please don't talk to each other. Please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0417par0125	There is no arrangement except for these issues.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0422par0126	159, (1) do not jump Yilmaz Bey.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0417par0127	Our proposal for the law contains amendments to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Law, which came out in December 2010. These changes are in the framework of our Constitution. Our proposal is even more mature with the motions to remove and change the text, in line with the views presented in the commission with its ruling opposition. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if we examine the amendments to the law proposal one by one, we will all see that our proposal is in accordance with the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0423par0129	So you'll be able to cover up corruption in accordance with the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0417par0130	With the proposal, the President has been given the authority to issue a general and regulation for the purposes of judicial control, with the amendment to the Commission; this time the limits of this mandate have been set, and the duties given to the Constitution in Article 159 have been made clear to the Council of Ministers in accordance with the Article 159 of the Constitution. The HSYK will not be able to make general and regulations outside of the duties given by the Constitution. Because the board's procedures are not subject to judicial supervision outside of layoff sentences. It is seen in the Council's generalisation and regulations, even in matters that have been appointed to the Ministry of Justice, beyond the duties given by the Constitution. This is being corrected when we think that these regulations and regulations, which the Council has issued outside the scope of their duties in the Constitution, are out of judicial control. One of the most important criticisms of the proposal is that the Minister of Justice has been given the authority to investigate and investigate judges and prosecutors. According to Article 159 of our Constitution, reviews and investigations of judges and prosecutors, the proposal of the relevant agency is made to the Council inspectors of the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors. The proposal is granted to the chairman of the board to grant the right to conduct procedures regarding the absence of investigations and investigations of judges and prosecutors. This is an arrangement in accordance with our Constitution. Because when the relevant office decides there is no room for investigation and investigation of judges and prosecutors, this decision is not presented to the chairman of the board for the benefit of the doubt. Therefore, the chairman of the board cannot find out what allegations about judges and prosecutors are not being investigated or investigated. However, both in the legislature and in public, there are questions about these issues. Therefore, the proposal from the Chairman of the Board for a review and investigation of judges and prosecutors is a valid change. It is not against the Constitution to give the President of the Board, the Vice-Presidents of the Inspection Board and the Vice-Presidents of the Inspection Board the authority to appoint the Vice-President of the Board, and there is no limit to that in our Constitution. The Constitution 159 has ruled the appointment of board inspectors and board review judges to the HSYK General Assembly. There is no contrary arrangement in the proposal for a change. Our proposal for the law states that the board inspectors will be chief inspectors and inspectors, and these will be 2. Among the candidates the agency will offer, the study judges have been asked to take place in the first place. The agency is expected to be elected by the General Assembly, among the candidates it will offer. The regulation remains entirely within the framework drawn by the Constitution. In the current arrangement, the HSYK Board of Inspection 3. Because of the agency's work and the president of the Inspection Board's responsibility to the Board, complaints are expressed that the Council has appointed its own appointment and that it is seeking the next election and that it has not been able to make effective inspection procedures for the judges and prosecutors. On the other hand, it has the potential to pressure and influence board inspectors. Therefore, it would be more appropriate for the Inspection Board to serve under the supervision of the Chairman of the Board and to be responsible for the President of the Board. The chairman's task for criminal investigation into members of the Council and disciplinary investigation is to launch a disciplinary investigation and to appoint a three-person investigation board to present the investigation board's report to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0424par0137	Who's the chairman of the board?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0417par0138	In other words, disciplinary proceedings will be carried out by the General Assembly and the General Assembly will make the final decision. The president will not be able to attend General Assembly meetings in the process of allowing judicial prosecution to take part in a disciplinary investigation into the members of the board. According to the indictment, the Supreme Court of Appeals shall serve as the Supreme Court of Justice and the Supreme Court of Appeals for personal crimes. The constitution states that the HSYK will consist of 22 members and will work in three circles. Although the establishment of the apartments has been made clear in the Constitution, in which the agency will consist of how many members and the issues related to the business department of the apartments will be regulated by the law, there is no legal basis for arguing that the changes in this matter are contrary to the Constitution. Proposal, 1st Council. And two. Apartment 5; 3. His apartment will consist of 11 members. It is a requirement of the Constitutional decree that the chairman of the Council shall be the head of the Board of Directors to decide which member of the board to serve in which apartment. The proposal envisions that the heads of the agency will be elected by the General Assembly, among the two members of each agency's own members, with a single majority of members. This arrangement is in accordance with the Constitutional clause that the office heads will be elected by the Council. Since the General Secretary's organisation and duties can be regulated by the law, the number of assistant general secretary-in-chiefs who are 4 has been raised to 5, and the requirement for one deputy general to be elected from among the administrative judges and prosecutors has been made. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, according to the Constitution, are appointed by the President of the three candidates who will be offered to the General Assembly from among the first-class judges and prosecutors. With the proposal, each member of the General Assembly can only vote for one candidate, so a pluralist structure is adopted. The assistant secretary general will work under the labour department, which has been prepared by the Secretary General and approved by the Chairman of the Board. The Venice Commission states that the best method for guaranteeing judicial independence is to appoint judges and make decisions on their careers by an independent judicial council. The Commission recommends that judicial councils have a pluralistic composition and that a significant portion of their members are made up of judges elected by their colleagues. The structure of the HSYK is also known to have a significant number of members from the dominant profession and selected by their colleagues, but it is also known that there are serious and justified criticisms in the membership composition and that there is no justice in representation due to the voting process referred to in the election. For this reason, an important regulation in high courts for HSYK membership and the election in the first-degree judicial and administrative districts is brought in which the judge and prosecutor only vote for one candidate, in accordance with the principle of democratic law state, aimed at pluralism. That is the opinion of all parties in the Constitutional Compromise Commission, and the will of the legislator in the 2010 Constitutional Amendment is that the Council is a pluralist and participatory structure. While the Constitutional Court should only examine constitutional amendments in terms of shape, it is based on a sentence that will lead to a new application, contrary to Article 153 of the Constitution, by removing the declaration of voting for an island from the text. Following the constitutional amendment, the elections took place in a list order, and instead of a pluralist structure the lawmaker desired, a majority structure was formed. This majority structure is the basis of the problems that have arisen today. The amendment to voting for a candidate in the Council election is not against the Constitution, because the text of the Constitution on this issue after the cancellation is in the form of the elections that each judge and prosecutor will vote in. The decision made in the election process is in accordance with the Constitution, since its members have been left to the law. With the proposal, the General Assembly has been reorganised the number of meetings and decisions sufficient. It is clearly stated in the Constitution that this matter can be arranged with the law. According to this, the General Assembly will meet with at least 17 members, and will decide with the only majority of members. The agenda of the General Assembly will be organised by the President, depending on the importance of the work, the urgency or the duration. A change of agenda can only be made by the decision of the majority of members of the General Assembly, at least one day before the meeting day, at the request of the President or one of the members. The number of agencies that are sufficient for meetings and decisions is also one of the issues that can be regulated by law in the Constitution, with the amendment, the apartments will be met with the total number of members, and the decision will be made. 3. The agency will be able to work as two delegations of five members, with the President's approval, so the delegations will mostly gather and decide. Your objection to the decision made by the apartment is to the apartment that follows the decision. For the apartment, it's 1. It's been brought to the apartment the way it should be done. In addition to the decision-making agency, the opposition to another agency consisting of different members also applies to the European Union norms as an effective objective system. The President's Constitutional Court stipulates that candidates who will be offered at least six years of seniority in their institutions will be offered by the Supreme Court of Appeals, Court of Appeals, Military Supreme Court and members of the Military Supreme Administration. The Constitutional Court will be appointed members to be elected by the President, while the elections in high courts will be based on voting only on one candidate for each empty membership. In the end, the President will vote for each empty membership from three candidates to be determined by a pluralistic system. Due to the establishment of new agencies in the Supreme Court three years ago, the delegation deadlines have been increased by bids to increase the number of candidates for the office's presidency. The Supreme Court's First President, the Supreme Court's Attorney's Attorney's Office, has increased the requirement of being a Supreme Court member for four years to be elected to the Supreme Court in eight years, the condition of being a Supreme Court member for three years in order to be elected as First Vice President, head of the Court and Supreme Prosecutor. The amendments to the Turkish Justice Academy Law are also different in accordance with the principles of judicial independence that strengthen the structure of the Academy. We cannot participate in criticism of changes to Turkey's Justice Academy. Pre-professional and vocational training of judges and prosecutors was conducted by the head of the Department of Education, which is directly owned by the Ministry of Justice, up to the EC PARTI administration. The law, which took effect in 2003, began training judges and prosecutors by the Turkish Justice Academy, an autonomous institution. Given the ten-year period from the day it was established, the need for changes to strengthen the institution's structure has arisen. 6 judges and prosecutors from their first-level courts are also included in the General Assembly. The changes are positive changes that strengthen the Academy's organizational structure. Under the current regulation of the Turkish Justice Academy on the education of judges and prosecutors in the field, the Academy was prepared by HSYK for the change in our law proposal and will be prepared by the Turkish Justice Academy, which will provide training through the opinion of HSYK. The proposal of the law we are discussing is in accordance with the 7th article of the Constitution that regulates the legal authority of our Constitution. It is in accordance with Article 11 of the Constitution, which regulates that laws cannot be contrary to the Constitution. In accordance with Article 138, which regulates the principle of independence of the courts. It does not violate Article 139, which regulates the guarantee of the judiciary and the prosecutor's office. The judiciary and the prosecution are in accordance with the 140th article concerning the profession, and the 159th article, which regulates the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, may be regulated by the law, and there is no conflict with 159. The law wishes our proposal to be a blessing and auspicious, and I salute the General Assembly with respect.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0425par0157	Yes, it's Turgut Dibek, the Centipede MP, who wants to speak for himself on the entire bill.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0426par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a personal commitment to the entire bill. First of all, I salute you. We had friends on the committee with us, friends from the ruling party following the Commission. We talked about this bill on the Commission for seven days, folks. I, today, in the talks on the Commission, in the talks that were held, I wrote down the transcripts of my own conversations, which are here. About 57 pages, I've had conversations in seven days. With me, with our fellow members of the Commission, our non-commissioners, as much as I have, we have tried to explain to Turkey, in terms of hundreds of pages, maybe thousands of pages, how Turkey really wanted to implement a regime change by taking over the judiciary in Turkey. Dear friends, I also said in the Commission: Look, you're uncomfortable with what we're telling you; perhaps our talks, our rhetoric offends you as a ruling party. Why are you saying these things? Because our friends know what the content of this work -- this bill -- is actually a proposal, but, I mean, the ministry -- has already come in line as the government's proposal -- has prepared this bill. Beyond our description, I said that before this bill arrived, some very important names from among you, in fact, had told Turkey the truth. I gave him a few examples. In these, Mr. Erdoğan Bayraktar, Mr. İdris Naim Şahin, even though he is not currently acting, Cemil Cicek, the Speaker of Parliament, has resigned the MPs -- Mr. Ertugrul Günay, İdris Bal, a large number of lawmakers, tried to explain in very important words what you really wanted to do; I gave them examples. Look, Mr. Idris Naim Şahin did your Ministry of Interior for a long time, but before that, I don't know, he was the Secretary General of your party, maybe ten years, if I'm not mistaken, one of the founding members was Idris Naim Şahin. He had some very important sentences he used when he resigned. I read it on the commission, and I'd like to share a sentence with you here. It's not my word or ours. These are the warnings that one of you, the founder of the party, is giving you, dear friends. See, what Idris Naim Şahin said: regulations regarding security and judicial members cannot be explained with understanding of reason, law and justice. This sentence actually explains everything. So why did this bill come, what was done before this bill, Mr. Idris Naim Şahin, and what he did, İdris Naim Şahin, say, "I warn you, I don't take responsibility and I resign." Now, Idris Naim wasn't just with Şahin. One of the four ministers in the cabinet, Erdogan Bayraktar himself said very important things on the air, friends. Now, you can say: "Ya, you are the opposition." I'm sorry, fellas, aren't those things said? So these words, these sentences, these people, your ministers, your deputies, didn't they tell you, they didn't give you these warnings? Erdogan Bayraktar: I did everything under the Prime Minister's orders. If there are things to investigate about me, the Prime Minister needs to be investigated. If I'm going to leave, if I'm going to resign, the Prime Minister must also leave. Guys, don't those words mean anything? So you're just gonna ignore them? Are we just going to ignore it or ignore it? So Yilmaz is telling us here, and he knows he didn't make the offer. I mean, my friends signed a bill that the Ministry had drawn up so they could pass it in a serial fashion. Dear friends, not enough, Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek, who, in the same way, has passed thirty years in this Parliament, one of the most experienced, experienced parliamentarians now, who has done the ministry for many years, used a sentence, he said: You know in Turkey that there is a 138th Article of our Constitution -- which is now dead, this clause has collapsed. I mean, the implementation of judicial decisions, the implementation of judicial decisions in Turkey, the principle that these decisions should be implemented by no one, the Constitution can be changed, the Constitution said. Now, I've already told this in the Commission, and there's even been a warning to Mr. Minister, to our friends and to ours, Mr. Secretary, that we don't want to, and we're very upset, but one day you'll go out and say, "Oh, my friends, what I did, I did by the Prime Minister's orders. You won't have to say to the Minister of Justice." Mr. Secretary has heard all our warnings, dear friends. Look, let's not get ahead of ourselves, we've got citizens watching us. With this bill, do you know what happens, even though Mr. Tunç says we don't do anything against the Constitution? It happens that there are 20 people who have been selected in the HSYK, who come from which you boast so much, from the judicial court, from the bench; judges, from the administrative judiciary, from the bench, from the 10th, I think, the pluralist structure of the HSYK. You've been bragging about it for years, or three years; 10 coming from the Supreme Court, from the 3th Supreme Court; 15; 1 from the Justice Academy; 16; 4 from the Minister of Justice, and 20 from the Ministry of Justice. Now, 20 people come in by choice. I asked in the Commission, I said, Mr. Secretary, how many people are in this HSYK? There's the president of the review board, there's his assistant, there's the review board inspectors, there's the members, there's the secretary general, there's the assistants, there's the review judges, there's the administrative staff. How many people are there? I think I've read about a number around 400. I asked him, "Is it true?" And he didn't answer, so maybe he'll give it here. Dear friends, as soon as the law is in effect, by law, by law, by law, everyone in the HSYK will be relieved of their duties. Everyone's mission ends, and there's only 20 of them and only 20 of them. You say, "The Undersecretary and the Minister, 22. Now, where in the world have such an app been seen, dear friends? The Constitution has the 36th article, which says: "Everyone looks for their rights in front of the law, before the law, in court, with the legal rights." He says, "He will plead." He says, "If he is wronged, he will seek his justice." Now, you're already blocking those people that you shut down with the law. How's he gonna sue? Where's he gonna sue? Can he go to the Supreme Court in connection with the annulment of that law? Where are those people going to sue? You're killing 400 people. What's going on? Mr. Secretary comes in and says in the morning, when the law is in effect -- if Mr. President approves -- the decrees are ready -- I'm appointing everyone. The law requires it. Everyone. The president of the review board, his assistants, inspectors, general secretary, assistants, administrative staff, review judges. He says: "I'm throwing everyone out." Yeah, guys, can that happen? Small, on the Commission, you're holding that ear like this, the Minister was throwing it. You gave them to the apartment, they did so, and now they're friends who say we've removed the violation of the Constitution. Now, my friends, they've put 20 people aside, they've prepared a law proposal on six people. They looked, and what can we do in these 20 people? It's the only thing we can do from six people. Other people are away from us... so they won't listen to us. Now, based on the numbers, you've built the law on six people, which doesn't happen anywhere in the world, no modern law state can accept it, and Turkey can't accept it. So it's 1. Apartment 7; 2. 7; 3. Seven. Now what? 5, 5, 11. What's he gonna do, Mr. Secretary? He is one of the three things of the 6th He's throwing it in the apartment. He's got those powers himself, he can't do the general board. It's clear which apartments the chosen ones will go to, friends, where they'll go. 1. He'll go to the apartment, he'll go to the apartment, he'll go to the apartment, but he can't go now, he's throwing. He's throwing three out of five people into an apartment. He's throwing three people into the apartment. Now, 11 members of the HSYK, members of the parallel state, like zucchini, and 11 members of the parishioner. He's throwing it in the apartment. Yeah, can that happen? You're saying that these 11 men are men of the congregation, representatives of the parallel state. You have to throw them there, there's no way he can transfer them. He'll put them there so they can stay there. 3. You're taking all the authority of the apartment to 2... Mr. Secretary, I said, look, right now there's an H3N2 virus in Turkey, flu virus. You'd better hope that one or two of those six people doesn't get caught or sleep in the house and get sick because you need them. Friends, it is really impossible to claim that this is not contrary to the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0427par0177	It was only available to five people before we changed it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0426par0178	No, guys, that's it. I didn't have enough time. There are motions, of course, and I'm going to make a commitment on the motions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We will continue to tell you these warnings, the facts. I believe that I saw it on the commission, and I believe that this bill or this offer should not pass through the House, my friends. I think a lot of our friends among you will not take this responsibility, but will do this important task on behalf of Turkey. Mr. President has started a process on this; you know, he's met with opposition leaders, and I think he's met with the Supreme Court Chairman. He's sending messages. Don't do this... this law will go through here to the President, and it will come back from there. I tell you, dear friends of Turkey, don't cause this trouble for days. I pay all my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0428par0185	Thank you. Now, Suleiman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who wants to speak for himself.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0429par0188	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. On December 17th, there was a massive earthquake; there was an earthquake of theft, corruption, and after this earthquake, all the perception of law in the government suddenly changed from evening to morning. Until then, when the scandals of the law came upon him, we changed the law of the superior even upon his ear, and brought the rule of law. Leaving all moral, legal values aside, he has brought a law proposal before the House, anxious as to how to get some people out of court, and how to control the judiciary in the name of the government. Of course, as soon as this arrived, there were serious public debates, especially among lawyers, and very serious arguments and disturbances. These arguments, I'm sure, are being communicated to you in some way, wherever you go, but the citizen tells us with all his open heart. Because there are those who are afraid of you, there are those who are afraid of you, but even your constituents come to the opposition and complain about the government's end point of view of corruption. They want us to ask the same question... look, we're getting messages. The Qur'an says, "Do not approach me with the right of the servant." The Bible says, "The Lord does not forgive thieves." The Torah says, "Don't commit adultery." The Buddhists say, "Don't eat anyone's rights."
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0430par0190	He says, "Don't slander."
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0429par0191	Who tells you that stealing, stealing, corruption is legitimate, friends, who tells you? The citizen wants us to ask: "All religions say, "Don't steal. Those who beat the players, those who allow them to be stolen, please ask them in our name, what religion are they? " The 48th and 50th verses in the Surah of Bakara, those 3 verses, dear friends, say, the Lord God says, "Remember that time we saved you from Pharaoh's forehead, descendants, and followers. From this generation, and from his followers, the great interpretation of the parable of the teacher Elmallı. Yes, he says that the responsibility of his descendants and supporters... is far greater than that of Pharaoh. Loving the party is one thing, we respect it, everyone here loves their party. It's one thing to love your own leader, to respect his own leader, everyone loves him. But, dear friends, it's really loving your leader, loving his party, when he's wrong, you're doing it wrong. It's saying, "You're doing it wrong." You're thirsty, dear friends. In fact, while we were doing these criticisms in the Justice Commission, why does Mr. Prime Minister's son not appear before the court, not testify? When an AKP MP was probably excited, lost himself, he used the phrase, "What's it to you! Whether he goes or doesn't go! Dear friends, the 10th article of the Constitution says that everyone is equal before the law; whether his title is Prime Minister or his name is Bilal, he becomes Hassan and so on, everyone is equal. Look, the most clicked song on the Internet is a song, a song, a Rumeli song; it's in the position of a metaphor, it's a glitch. I'd like to share with you this Rumeli song: "The window is open Bilal boy, the cooktov has exploded."
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0431par0197	It's not Pishtov, it's taps.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0429par0198	Look, guys, when your people steal, all of a sudden you're trying to change the definition of theft. Sir, he didn't steal this deed, sir, so he stole the property, and so, as if it wasn't a theft, a lot of tevils... don't go wrong.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0432par0199	What theft? There's no stealing, there's no stealing! You're blacking people out.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0433par0200	Mehmet Metiner, did you become a boxman too?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0429par0201	Dear friends, from the Turkish Penal Code, take out the theft charge, so when a thief enters someone else's house, tell them it's not a crime, so you can relax, and they can relax.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0433par0202	Yes, thieves in prison are in vain. The petty thieves are in prison for nothing. What is the sin of those petty thieves? The kid stole a baklava, did six years.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0429par0203	Dear friends, when a citizen asks you this question, they actually have a basis, and they really have a problem because there are things going on, and there are things going on, and then there are improvements. Every time Erdogan said, dear friends, you sought a sanctity, every time he said it. You've forgotten that he's a mortal and pretended to be a divine being. First you married him, then you Prophetized him, then you searched for his circumcision.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0434par0204	We don't have chieftains, look elsewhere.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0435par0205	We only obey the circumcision of the Prophet, alhamdulillah we are Muslims, not Tayyiban.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0429par0206	Yes, a deputy minister mentioned his circumcision. Of course, the last stop came from the mouth of your Düzce MP, Fevai Arslan. He said, "He is a leader who has gathered all the qualities of God."
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0434par0207	It's slander, slander... it's unbecoming...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0429par0208	Look, these qualities include the Creator's creativity. That's a partner.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0434par0209	Lying to a Muslim does not suit him.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0429par0210	It's a sin, it's a sin, it's a sin, it drives you out of Islam.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0436par0211	Is it appropriate to steal from Muslims? Is it good to eat the forbidden food, Muslim?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0437par0212	They're workers, they're brewers!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0429par0213	So, my friends, what did Mr. Erdogan do in the face of this description? It's quiet. What did the AKP do? He stopped because, friends, at that time, both Mr. Erdogan and the AKP had much more important things to do. When a Justice and Development Party member joked with his friends, he said, "What size is your shoe size?" He said, "Wow, you insult our party." Look, I'm calling it in. Not only does the party violate your principles, but it violates the religion set forth by the great Creator. Come on, if you're really sincere, dear friends, let's get this over to the disciplinary board, let's go. You're quiet, you're quiet.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0438par0214	Look, we won't shut up...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0429par0215	Because, friends, I don't give a shit about robbing people. You say, "You've taken it." You say, "I won't make a fuss." What kind of foot is this, AKP? What kind of foot is this?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0439par0216	What's the lie, what's the slander?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0429par0217	Yeah, what did you do? When it came to it, you immediately, suddenly, brought in the innocence of the person. It was as if this person had never been innocent before, discovered on December 17th. Dear friends, I hope that the chosen friends will come to the courts to be exonerated. We're not going to be happy about it. Look, our quarrel is that the Prime Minister and the ministers and their sons and their brother-in-laws must go to court, just as the peasant Mehmet Aga had to go to court when he committed the crime. The basis of democracy is the state of law; if you eliminate it, the leader of that country cannot be called a democratic leader. Yes, you take files, you throw prosecutors around, and, dear friends, you threaten them. You're threatening prosecutors, and the last seven trucks were caught, the prime minister says: "How can you intervene without my permission?" To the top of the law, dear friends, this mentality is a crippled mindset. This mentality is a mentality that does not serve democracy, the state of law, but it takes all the gains back. What's the rush? What's with the fear?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0440par0220	Isn't slander a crime?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0429par0221	Friends, there may be slander, there may be slander, but the only way to solve this is to go to court.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0441par0222	Will you wait for the court, the court? Wait for the trial and then talk.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0429par0223	What you've done, you've closed the court, you've collapsed on the court like a nightmare, that's our fight. You need to stay out of the dirt. Stay out of the dirt, dear AKP MPs. We know that most of you aren't involved, but for 20 or 25 people, I don't know, why are you going under the table? Tomorrow, your children will have no sense of humor at school... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What talks will your wife have where she's going? Isn't that a shame? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0442par0228	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0443par0229	Wait for the trial, then talk.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0444par0230	Mr. President, I'd like to take a word with you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0442par0231	Sir?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0444par0232	There's been an incident with the location, and I'd like to take a word with you. I'd like to take the stand for bullying according to 69.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0442par0233	What are you going to say, Congressman?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0444par0234	My friend made a statement last week about my press release, and I'd like to answer it back. I'd like to explain my situation.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0442par0235	No, I get it, but you have no right to answer his words here. Congressman, if I may...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0444par0236	There's a lot of teasing about it, even though I answered.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0442par0237	What the hell was he picking on me for?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0445par0238	Is this the banana republic or the pineapple republic?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0444par0239	It's about our Prime Minister in the press last week.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0446par0240	Mr. President, I picked on you, promise me.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0445par0241	He teased me, he teased me.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0444par0242	I'd like to give you an answer.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0447par0243	Just a second, Mr. Korkmaz... I get it, but you don't have the right to answer, do you, Congressman?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0448par0245	Is this the Pineapple Republic, brother?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0449par0246	You will apologize to the Turkish nation, Muslims, the whole nation.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0447par0247	Yes, Congressman, please sit down.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0450par0248	Mr. President, let him speak!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0449par0249	Let him speak where he did it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0450par0250	I made a fool of myself.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0451par0251	I'll answer if they'll let me.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0452par0252	Oh, for God's sake! He teased you, come out and answer me, brother.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0450par0253	Mr. President, I've teased him. I say, sir, let him defend himself!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0452par0254	Mr. President, we don't accept this injustice.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0453par0255	Please, sir... Congressmans, before we go into the question-answer process, there are two motions on the whole proposal, given according to Article 72 of the Civil Code: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 72th. In accordance with the clause, we demand and demand that negotiations on the entire Law Proposal continue to change in some of the 523 Numbered Laws that are being discussed. Ali Riza Özturk Flood Köse İzzet Cetin Bedii Süheyl Batum Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu Veli Ağbaba Hasan Ören Tolga Çangar Mahmut Tanal Ali İhsan Kokturk Turhan Tayan Haluk Ahmet Silver On 7.1,2014, the Proposal for Change in Some Numbered Laws, 2/1929, presented to the presidency of the TBM, came to Parliament as a result of the 17 December corruption operations, not as a result of social needs. The proposed proposal aims to impose justice on the person of the judge. The proposal is clearly unconstitutional. The proposal eliminates the authority of judges to regulate the judicial duties of prosecutors and prosecutors' judicial duties, excluding issues relating to the use of the High Council's jurisdiction and the ability to evaluate evidence and characterise crime. The Ministry of Justice has jurisdiction over judges and prosecutors, and the Constitution has 140 and 144. It is limited in its materials. Its administrative duties are based on commitment to the Ministry of Justice, while the Constitution is 140. Article 6 of the article states that the administrative duties of judges must be assessed with the second joke of the same clause, as well as their commitment to the Ministry of Justice. The joke states that judges will serve according to the independence and judicial guarantee of the courts, regardless of the distinction between judicial and administrative duties. Therefore, it is a constitutional obligation for judges to serve in accordance with the independence and judicial guarantee of the courts, even in terms of administrative duties. At this point, the Constitution of the Council is 159. Given that the independence of the judiciary is a institutional guarantee, it must be able to make a summary of administrative tasks related to judges in order to preserve judicial independence. Besides, your Constitution is 140. Article 6. In his joke, 144. It states that prosecutors are subject only to ministry supervision in terms of administrative duties. Therefore, the ministry has been authorized only for the administrative duties of prosecutors. Therefore, the Ministry's generalisation of judicial duties of prosecutors is clearly unconstitutional, except for the ability to evaluate evidence and characterise crime. In accordance with the rules of separation of forces and independence of the courts, it is clear that the Council has the authority to generalise the issue. Therefore, the amendment is the Constitution's 2, 138th, 140th, 144th and 159th. It's clearly against the material. The proposal includes appointing, enforcing, enforcing, setting up regulations, and setting up general secretary assistants of the Investigation Board, giving part of the work that comes to one of the apartments, and which cannot be met with the usual work, and conducting disciplinary investigation and prosecution of members of the Board, and making the necessary decisions in this matter," the board's head, the Minister of Justice, said. The proposal also redesigns the duties of the General Assembly as a necessary result of changes in the chairman's duties. It is also taken from the General Assembly, since objections to office decisions have been changed to the object authority. Inspectors with a significant impact on judicial independence and on the professional careers of judges and prosecutors and the Minister of Justice, who is the representative of the board of justice, and therefore has an important position in the functioning of the Board of Investigators and secretary generals. The dissolution of the regulatory forces, the independence of the courts, and the principle of judicial guarantees are clearly in violation. So the arrangement is 2, 138 of the Constitution. And it's against 140 substances. It is transferred to the executive body of the General Assembly. On these grounds and because of the word limitation, it is of great importance to continue negotiations on the entire proposal, for other reasons written in the Opposition Fair. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Substance 72. In accordance with the matter, we propose that the entire proposal of the law be continued in negotiations. Lütfü Türkkan D. Ali Torlak Oktay Vural It is contrary to the separation of forces, the continuing negotiations of this proposal, which has submitted the judiciary to its authority, will make it possible to explain more clearly the problems of the proposal. Yes, I submit the same motions to your votes.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0454par0288	I have a motion, I have a motion.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0453par0289	Mr. Young, that is a separate motion, and it will come.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0454par0290	Why are you shaking your head? Why are you shaking your head? You don't have the right to represent that bench, you don't know...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0455par0291	Is that for you to decide? Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0453par0292	Mr. Young, I'm going to file your motion after the question-answer process -- as much as you do -- everyone here has information, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0454par0293	Not after the answer, but now.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0453par0294	All in favor...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0456par0297	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0453par0298	You have a roll call. I'll take care of it. Mr. Tüykan, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Öner, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Acar, Mr. Güler, Mr. Ören, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Gükkükturk, Mr. Öztrak, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Demir, Mr. Turk. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Mr. Halaman, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Yıldırım, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Kökturk and Mr. Kaplan will be processed in accordance with this order. Mr. Halaman, you didn't...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0457par0311	There's a scam in this, too!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0453par0312	You broke it... Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0458par0314	Mr. President, thank you. My question, Mr. Secretary, is that for the past three years, you've set up tent courts in the name of the current prosecutors, judges, and even a minister, and how many ambushes have you released the police, the military, the baby killers, the Kurdistan Workers. Two: the soldier will commit a civil coup. You have appointed judges, prosecutors, and put the soldiers in prison. Recently, on behalf of the arrested MP, you did not leave the arrested MPs on Sunday via e-mail through the Internet and leave Engin Alan Pasha. Now, what did you need and need a new law? What was wrong with these judges and prosecutors that you wished to establish a new law because of these problems? That's what I asked. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0459par0319	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0460par0321	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'm being very sincere. So we understand that this law is coming in front of these investigations to prevent a set of investigations. I mean, it's really intimate... and I have an extra apartment, and I want to give it to you, the government. Please, don't put this judgment on politics.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0461par0323	Oh, shit! That's heavy!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0460par0324	Question number two: Article 160 of the Penal Code... if there's any evidence of criminal activity in a car, the republic's attorney has an obligation to investigate it according to Article 160 and 161. Show me a clause, which, for God's sake -- which law, sir -- that can't prevent criminal evidence. I'll apologize to you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0462par0326	Thank you. Mr. Dibek, come in.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0463par0328	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Minister, there was an article in the Hurriyet newspaper about the four ministers who came to you about the proceedings that came to you through the Prime Minister's office to be sent to the Parliament, saying that you would sit down and make a decision about these ministers by the end of the local elections, not until 30 Marta. Now, is that claim true, is that how you've considered it? Do you, the Department of Justice, have the right to make any assessment of these proceedings? Otherwise, for what reason can you hold off these arguments? Why do you worry that all Turkey will see the allegations there? So, in the local election process, the opposition uses those allegations, and you're worried that we're going to be in serious trouble in these elections? I'd be happy if you could enlighten the public and us on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0464par0331	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0465par0333	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, now, when we really look at this major corruption operation on December 17th and 25th, the dollars are going around. There are ministers in this, children in charge, brothers-in-laws, brothers-in-laws. Now, today we have the Prime Minister on the phone tapes, the Prime Minister's daughter, the bureaucrats, the governor. We're looking at speeches. There are strong claims that the property of the state has been destroyed and the right of the orphan has been defeated. Now, you're using statements like "Hashhashi" or "Hashhashi" or "Secrets" or "Service Movement" to the cops who caught them while they were standing around? Do you find that moral? When you told these people that you've been walking the road for 12 years, we gave them everything they wanted. Is there a prime minister who says, is there a deputy prime minister or ministers? I mean, for 12 years, you're going to be working with them, and after that, because your thefts came out...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0464par0336	Thank you. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0466par0338	Minister, I have a very direct question. Are you thieves? Not that I know of, not that I know of. So, why do you insist on such an HSYK change that protects thieves? Where did you get such an order? That's what I want to ask you. Second, doesn't it bother your conscience that Mr. Engin Alan, who is currently in prison, is still inside? Doesn't it bother you as Minister of Justice that a congressman is in prison? One question to Mr. Philimaya: I'd like to know if Mr. Osman Hemımaya, who was mentioned in the recent deeds, has any relation to you or not. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0467par0342	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0468par0344	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, after the 17th of December, what are the reasons for bringing up this law, this proposal, immediately? How related is the restructuring of the HSYK structure in Turkey to this operation on December 17th? In exchange for the corruption, corruption and money laundering operation... we'll have the structure of HSYK before the rule of law. Is it right for you to change it, go to a referendum, promise people, and then bring this law up again after these operations? I'd also like to know, after December 17th, was the HSYK politicalized by you in the process after the referendum you set up? I'd appreciate it if you could make that clear. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0469par0350	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0470par0352	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, when the Prime Minister is leaving the country, the last time he leaves the country, he will ask for my permission, referring to the prosecutor who wants to search the truck in Adana. Now, do you really have to ask the Prime Minister's permission to conduct an investigation in the state of law? If this is something, where is Turkey going in the state of law? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0471par0356	Thank you. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0472par0358	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, an investigation has been launched into police unions in Bodrum for sharing on Facebook. 8,000 police officers are alleged to have been investigated. Are you from the investigators sent to these people to investigate? Are you the flame? Are you a leftist? Do you know if it's true that you led these questions, along with your new arrival in the Ministry? A second question: Today in Çanakkale, a 13-year-old boy was taken into custody, especially because the government had sprayed his resignation in the protests of the Travel Resistance. How do you feel about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0473par0362	Thank you. Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0474par0364	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, today Mr. President has issued a report at the group meeting. There, Mr. Undersecretary, the Undersecretary of your witness, calls the Attorney General of İzmir, instructs the last one publicly to block the operation in İzmir, and the matter is being taken into custody by an honest attorney general, and this chief prosecutor will be dismissed immediately. Did you give your undersecretary any authority, or did you give him the warrant, or does the undersecretary have the authority to call an attorney general and tell him to stop the operation? If he were in a democratic country, in another country, a justice minister would either remove the undersecretary or resign himself in the face of his undersecretary's actions. Which of these two ways do you intend to choose? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0475par0367	Thank you. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0476par0369	Mr. President, through you, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary that until two or three years ago, even six months ago, the Fethullah Gulen congregation was called a service group. Is the Fethullah laughing congregation a gang now? Who is the parallel structure the Prime Minister said or the AKP supporters said, and who is the parallel structure in the judiciary? Second: An investigation has been launched against 4 ministers on charges of corruption. Why aren't these ministers being sent to Parliament? The third question is: Call your Undersecretary's Chief Public Prosecutor and stop the investigations. What process do you intend to conduct? Does the Undersecretary have such a duty?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0477par0372	Thank you. Mr. Ascen... no.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0478par0374	Give the minister the right to answer.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0477par0375	Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0479par0376	Thank you, Mr. President. 1) Mr. Secretary, what's the point of changing the number of agencies to 5, 5, 11 when each of the three agencies in the HSYK are assigned 7, 7, 7? 2) Are there any accounts of controlling the most important functions of 22 members of the HSYK with the six members you believe you are in control of the number of agencies as 5, 5, 11? 3) Is it the result of the same mathematical accounts that the authority to conclude objections to the decisions of the agencies is removed from the General Assembly and given to the next apartment? 4) What is your conscience's reaction to the fact that you sit such an important bill that concerns the future of the judiciary on the purpose of covering conjunctural, mathematical accounts and corruption, rather than on the principles of universal law? Is your conscience clear, Mr. Secretary, for drafting such a bill?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0480par0381	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0481par0383	Mr. President, I have a question.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0480par0384	If you look at the time, Mr. Kaplan, it's 12 minutes past the time to ask questions.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0482par0385	Give me 12 minutes to answer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0480par0386	If there's time, we'll give it to him. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0388	Yes, Mr. President, there are many questions, and I may not be able to answer all of them in the meantime; we'll answer what we can't answer in writing, and I'll tell you that in advance. Different questions have come about questions, especially about the truck in Adana. As you know about the MIT Law, not to mention the name of the law, it is up to the Prime Minister's permission to investigate whether the members of the MIT or those assigned by the Prime Minister are acting on the grounds that they have committed crimes committed during the nature of the mission or that they have committed crimes which are alleged to be carried out in accordance with Article 5271's article 250.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0484par0390	He's not investigating, he's looking for criminal evidence.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0391	Look, it's a...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0485par0392	It's not your mission.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0393	Look, there's been a tip about this incident, and at the scene, these trucks are linked to the National Intelligence Agency. With these appliances, I asked them how they would be, what they said...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0486par0394	Is there a shipment of weapons in the service of MIT?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0487par0395	If it was a human being in a truck, would it be human trafficking?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0396	...in such a case, they must hold a report and ask permission to continue the process.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0488par0397	Well, then he wasn't compatible with the nature of the mission.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0487par0398	It's not allowed.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0399	So the law is clear at this point.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0488par0400	They're not about the mission.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0401	Look, these are MIT's duties. It's clearly written in the law...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0488par0402	What mission did he give you, Prime Minister?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0403	...and it's legal work that's under those duties, and it has to do with the work that's within the law...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0489par0404	Article 4 counts duties, Mr. Secretary. Look, there's no duty of carrying a gun in Article 4 of the MIT Act.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0488par0405	So now the hit man does what the government wants, all kinds of illegal transactions. He'll take the drugs, he'll take the truck. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0406	As part of an investigation carried out by Adana Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, there have been reports of explosives and ammunition in the vehicle, which were sent to an illegal terrorist organization, that the action was linked to the issues carried out in Article 315. It's being brought up, and it's said that these vehicles are related to the National Intelligence Agency, in addition to all the trucks and materials mentioned in all the locations, the Adana Governorate has written 19/1/2014...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0488par0407	What's he doing with explosives? You're trying to assassinate him? Who are you trying to assassinate?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0408	...in the same dated article of the National Intelligence Service Undersecretary of the Adana District Chairman, among the domestic district units, where the materials belong to the organization...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0488par0409	You're legitimizing the unsub.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0410	...without further searching for the details of the removal of the equipment, the equipment was briefly examined for the quality of the material, and the vehicles were handed over to the MIT Regional Chairman's authority.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0488par0411	Where's the stuff?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0412	Look, it's very clear. Here, prosecutors will abide by the law, managers will obey, everyone will obey. For once, I find it helpful to make that very clear. On the other hand...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0490par0414	You provoke prosecutors to commit crimes, you encourage them. He has a duty in Article 4 of the MIT Act, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0491par0415	From now on, at least don't follow the truckers, or you'll give them a ticket.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0416	Now, of course, a friend of ours in the Hurriyet newspaper asked about a story by Nuria Babacan, about the proceedings.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0492par0417	I asked, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0418	I've already told you, the Justice Department has no right to any of this.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0493par0419	Why are you holding me up?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0420	Excuse me. The Ministry of Justice also has a statement published on this issue. Any indictment of the ministers' duties has a charter that envisions that when there is a claim, it will be sent directly to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and when it is a matter of personal crimes, it will be held and sent to parliament via the Ministry of Justice.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0494par0422	The ministers have no role in bribery, corruption, Mr. Secretary. Bribery and corruption are not part of the minister's duties.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0423	Now it's being processed within the scope of this sentence. What the Department of Justice can do about this -- this is just the part in this article -- if it's about immunity, then it's about sending it over here, no, if it's about their duties, it can return it or send it to the House. And at this point, when you look at past applications, we see that some files have been returned and some have been sent back.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0495par0424	When's he coming?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0496par0425	So you're going to return it?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0426	There's no way we can keep these files.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0496par0427	You're holding it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0497par0428	You're going to return it?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0429	We'll just transfer it. So we can't keep the files consciously. It is not legally possible for us to look inside the files, to examine them, to evaluate what's going on and what's going on. I'd like to underline that once again.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0498par0430	Mr. Secretary, what does a document of a classified investigation look for in the Ministry?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0431	In other words, have you called our Attorney General about the matter brought up today regarding the Undersecretary of Justice? If you have called, what is it? The Attorney General of Justice has called the Attorney General, but he has spoken to him...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0499par0432	Oh, they had a game chat!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0433	If you'll excuse me, I'll tell you what he said. ...the Undersecretary of Justice has been briefed on the ongoing incident. After that, he also demanded that the law be enforced, that the law not be prevented, and that there be no outside of the law.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0499par0435	So if she doesn't tell him, he won't be doing the law. Yeah, we believed it! For God's sake, don't fool the MPs.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0436	I'll tell you one more thing: prosecutors and judges are administratively dependent on the Ministry of Justice, hundreds of questions from Congress are coming to our Ministry. We need to have information when we have answers to these questions, when other matters are being done.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0499par0437	Is he calling the prosecutor every day? Do the law?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0438	It is not appropriate for a minister of justice, an undersecretary of justice or a minister to meet with the attorney general of the republic.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0499par0440	Ya! Mercy!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0441	So I'm making it very clear. But if he wanted the investigation stopped, the investigation shut down, the investigation covered up, then I'll be with you, and I'll do what's necessary.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0500par0442	Stop the investigation. It says.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0499par0443	If you have the guts, then investigate that prosecutor. He's lying. Who are you kidding?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0483par0444	But there's absolutely nothing that wants the investigation closed, the investigation stopped, the cover-up. I'd like to make that clear.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0499par0445	Shame on you! Who are you kidding? He got on the phone, told me about the game, took the recipe, for God's sake!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0501par0446	That's it! Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0502par0447	Stop the investigation. It says.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0499par0448	Did he ask you what you ate? Shame on you! You're the shooters.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0503par0449	Of course, the proposal included the reason for the proposal to arrange the apartments as five, five, seven, and was explained. The bidders brought him in. Our friends have expressed that this assessment was made due to the work department and the intensity of the work.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0499par0450	The shoe boxes aren't finished yet, so he's on his way.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0503par0451	Mr. Turkkan asked a question, of course, and I don't think it's right to ask a question in such a manner, nor do you. If I ask you a question in the same manner as you do now, I'm not comfortable with it, but I'm not comfortable with it when I say, "Are you really thieves?" But should I tell you, are you naughty? Of course you're not, but that's not the kind of approach that would be appropriate in the presence of this Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0504par0452	Your friends' theft has been discovered. Is that a lie I'm telling you, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0503par0453	But is that such a question? Are you this one? If I get up now, I'll tell you about... It's a shame. It's a shame.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0505par0454	So, Mr. Lawmakers, you're the one who shut down corruption and bribery next to his testimony.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0503par0455	Yes, Mr. President, I will answer other questions in writing.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0506par0456	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0505par0457	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary interfering with the corruption and bribery investigation.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0503par0458	We're not interfering with anything, we want the law to work right.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0505par0459	It is the Parliament's duty to criticize the Minister who intervened in a corruption and bribery investigation. Something about bald...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0503par0460	We're on the right track, we don't want anyone to go outside the law. We don't cover up any corruption. We don't protect anyone, but...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0507par0461	Tell your friends not to steal.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0505par0462	You're the D.O.D., you've been tasked with setting up prosecutors and judges.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0508par0463	Mr. Vural, please sit down.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0505par0464	Why are you shutting down bribery and corruption? Why are you covering the Reza Zarrabs? Why are you protecting the corrupt moneymen? Why are you protecting the thieves? Why are you protecting corrupt international gangs? Why are you protecting the international gang?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0508par0465	Congressmans, the question-answer process is complete.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0509par0466	I'll say one word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0508par0467	Mr. Tanal, there's no such procedure, there's no Civil Code decree, so is that a thing? Congressmans, the question-answer process is complete. Now, Tunceli MP Kamer Young...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0510par0470	Mr. President, we can't listen.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0511par0471	It's a crime to question thefts.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0512par0472	I'll say one word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0513par0473	Mr. Tanal, is there such a procedure? Show it in the Civil Code, I promise you. It's a question-answer process, you asked the question, Mr. Secretary answered it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0514par0474	Mr. Secretary, call your friends on the phone. Why are you stealing? Why are you answering these questions?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0515par0475	Mr. President, I have something to say.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0513par0476	There is no such thing, Mr. Yilmaz. We're doing a QA.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0515par0477	You know what I'm gonna ask?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0513par0478	No, Mr. Congressman, please, Mr. Yilmaz. It's over. It's over. Yes, members of parliament, we're being led by the Tunceli MP Kamer Young...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0515par0480	Mr. President, one second, Mr. President, I have something to say.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0513par0481	Mr. Yilmaz, it's not according to anyone's wishes here, it's the Civil Code. Question-answer done and done.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0515par0482	Listen to my request, my request.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0513par0483	You don't have any more demands.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0516par0484	The MP asked a question, and he's going to ask you how to answer that question.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0513par0485	Mr. Vural, where is it in the Civil Code?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0517par0486	Yeah, but how do you know what I'm gonna ask?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0513par0487	After Mr. Secretary responds...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0518par0488	Maybe I'll answer in writing.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0513par0489	No, sir, I don't.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0518par0490	What do you mean, no?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0519par0491	Maybe call an ambulance. How do you know? Call an ambulance. Maybe he'll say it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0520par0492	Mr. President, take my request.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0521par0493	A motion has been made by Mr. Kamer Young to extradite the proposal to the Commission in accordance with Article 87 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0520par0494	Mr. President, how do you know what I'm going to say?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0522par0495	Maybe he'll want an ambulance. For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0521par0496	Subsequent to the 87th Amendment of the Civil Code, the Law and the Civil Code, if there are no provisions...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0520par0497	Oh, boy, oh, boy, oh, boy, oh, boy, oh,
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0521par0498	...or a motion for the extradition of a clause to the commission. The 88th article of the Civil Charter is...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0523par0499	That has nothing to do with it. Will you read my motion?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0521par0500	Just hear me out, please.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0523par0501	First read my motion, President, first read my motion.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0521par0502	The bill and the entire proposal, or some of its materials, are to be returned to the commission...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0523par0503	That's the Commission's authority or the government's authority.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0521par0504	...as a special provision for the commission and what the government may want.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0523par0505	Don't bother with things you don't understand, read my motion. Read the motion according to Article 87.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0521par0506	In accordance with this special ruling, lawmakers, outside the main commission and the government, are not able to submit a motion to restore the bill and proposal to the commission.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0523par0507	How come?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0521par0508	This is also the implementation of Parliament for the return of the bill and proposals to the commission. Under the remembered decree of the Civil Code, the motion will not be taken into effect.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0523par0509	President, look, read article 87, read it.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0521par0510	Mr. Young, the fifth year of the 23rd term of the Law is in the 86th Union...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0523par0511	If you've done it wrong, if you haven't done it already!
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0521par0512	On April 5, 2011...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0523par0513	No, not at all. Look, article 87 is open.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0521par0514	...that you have made a motion in the same way, sir, and that the motion is in the same minutes that the procedure has been carried out.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0523par0515	No, you're remembering him wrong. Mr. President, then I'd like a word on the procedure, a word on your attitude.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit07spe0521par0517	Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire proposal are now complete. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit08spe0521par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 523. The commission and the government are in place. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit08spe0524par0005	Mr. President, you have to process my motion.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit08spe0521par0006	Now, I submit to your votes that all those in favor...
tbmm-2014-01-21sit08spe0524par0007	You have to process my motion.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit08spe0521par0008	Those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit08spe0524par0009	We're talking to you. What kind of Parliament Speaker are you?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit08spe0521par0010	Mr. Young, I just answered.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit08spe0524par0011	You didn't, and you didn't read my motion. Why don't you process my motion?
tbmm-2014-01-21sit08spe0521par0012	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit09spe0521par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 49th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 523. Commission? No. It's been postponed.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit09spe0525par0005	Don't run, don't run, Mr. Secretary, don't run.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit09spe0526par0006	I don't run.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit09spe0525par0007	You will not escape judgment, you will not escape judgment. Setting up a judge and a prosecutor will be a black mark on you, a black mark. Nurettin won't be able to save you either.
tbmm-2014-01-21sit09spe0527par0008	We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Environmental Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which have been ranked in the 4th place, in accordance with the Charter drafting of the Agreement for Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development Areas. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Reports with the Environmental Commission, Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission, as well as the Agreement Act on Natural Resources and Water Basin Amenajm. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Under the decision taken, it is Wednesday (January 22nd 2014) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday (January 22nd 2014). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
