tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Kemalettin Yilmaz, MP of Afyonkarahisar who asked for a statement about the problems caused by refugees and illegal immigrants in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, before we invite Mr. Yilmaz, there's not much noise, but it's better if we keep the peace a little longer. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I just want to say in the first place that no one would leave their home, their home, their wife, their friend, their family, the land where they were born and raised, even if they were from the garbage, but they would have to leave. Our country is being flooded with refugees and illegal immigrants because of the problems surrounding it and the fact that it is on the map of the illegal immigrant road. We are a country from the Middle East, especially from Iran, Afghanistan and Turkia, which is used as transit to European countries. It's an important inconvenience. Rather than refugees, the problem of illegal immigrants is a more serious problem because they have no records, no surveillance. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees is trying to track down refugees. The European Union wants us to keep refugees in Turkey, prevent them from entering their geography, but it's often impossible to prevent them. In particular, there is a vast limit to the sea. In addition, a very serious financial and logistical support is needed for their housing, and Turkey needs significant material resources. And because they can't be achieved, they stand before us as the problem of both our country and the whole world. However, it is an important problem for Turkey, which is a top priority and an urgent one. Especially since the United States of America dropped democratic bombs on Iraq and after the civil war in Syria...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0003par0019	Mr. President, your warning wasn't enough.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0004par0020	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0002par0021	... he's been having this problem closer, warmer and denser. These people, who were first stationed in the camps, have spread throughout our country, especially our border cities, unregistered, uncontrollably. This spread, unfortunately, is unregistered and out of control. According to police records, there were 1,071 registered refugees in my constituency, Afyonkarahisar, in 2012, and that number was raised to 2,144. These are the ones on record. We know that the number of fugitives with no records has reached 8-10 thousand in our province, and we're monitoring it. Dear lawmakers, this affects our country very badly in economic, social and cultural terms. They're a risk of peace and country security because they're acting uncontrollably within the country. No one even asks for IDs. This makes these people the target audience of some malicious, malicious people. Some see them as cheap, even as throat - full workers. It attracts unemployment problems and unregisteredness and unfair gain. The nearest place is ACTI valued lawmakers. In other cities, bus stations and train stations, parks, abandoned buildings, where they live. This doesn't suit our country. These people in economic distress are also doing serious damage to the moral structure of our country's people. In addition to those who have been deceived for money or for marriage, they also cause a new prostitution industry to be born. And especially after the change in Article 26 of the TCK, which you helped to prevent adultery from being a crime published in the Official Gazette of October 12, 2013, this immoral sector has come a long way in our country. Thousands of illegal immigrants are involved in panhandling, theft, muggings all over our country. It is possible to see at least 3-4 refugee news every day on page 3 of the newspapers. In some of our cities, serious disputes, fights, collective events are taking place between refugees and the city's people, which is the basis for greater events in the provinces. In fact, events in Istanbul, Ankara, Afyonkarahisar, Kahramanmarash and Adana have been a harbinger of these events in the last few days. It is absolutely necessary to help people who are forced to do so, but it is essential to do so in a manner that is written and followed in a certain policy. Hundreds of thousands of people in the world and in our neighbors are in trouble. Not only the Syrian people, but our Turkmen brothers in Iraq, the Uygur Turkmen in China are also in a very difficult situation. Our Foreign Minister, who opened the country's doors to the Syrians without registering well, could keep the Uygur Turks waiting for months at the airport, not even a tourist visa for the leader of the Uygur Turks, Rabia Kadir. We want you to be more sensitive about these things. This problem in our country is important, unregistered and uncontrollably, and it must be resolved immediately, with the protection of the peace, social peace, domestic security, and external security of our country. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0005par0031	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mr Ömer Faruk Öz, a member of Malatya MP who wants to speak on behalf of the 40th anniversary of Operation Peace in Cyprus. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0006par0036	Mr. President, I have been promised to be President of the Friendship Group on the grounds of the 40th anniversary of the construction of Operation Peace in Cyprus. I hereby salute your high council. Established in 1960, the Republic of Cyprus, based on the equal partnership of Turks and Greeks, the Greeks began oppression and persecution against our descendants in order to transform it into the state of Helen. As a result, our Turkish Armed Forces brought peace to Cyprus through military action, which was carried out on July 20, 1974. The Muslim Turkish presence, which is about to be destroyed on the island of Cyprus, has been liberated by the operation of peace. Dear MPs, in Cyprus's history, there has never been a Greek island, a Greek island. The island, which has been dominated by many states throughout history, has been taken over by the Ottomans in 1571. After the conquest of the Ottomans, Greek and Turkish citizens, both living in peace, peace and brotherhood until the middle of the 19th century. The events of Cyprus began in 1914 after Britain's invasion of Cyprus, and the policies followed by the Greeks led to the point of destroying the Turks there. In such a case, the Cypriot Peace Movement has been carried out. Dear lawmakers, we are seeing events in geography when the Ottoman Empire has been withdrawn from its regions. During his time under Ottoman protection, there was stability in Africa, in the Middle East, in every ethnic structure, in every religious structure, in the peoples, in peace and happiness. Cyprus has sat on Turkey's agenda in a different way since the 1950s. Turkey, Turkey, Turks, garantator country with the special efforts of the period's Foreign Minister Fatin Rüştügütü, Zürich and London Accords, and since then, our brothers there are not alone, they have proved that they belong to the Turks. Shortly after the establishment of the independent Republic of Cyprus, based on the equal partnership of the Turks and Greeks, the forces of the armed forces organized peace operations against Ada, as a result of their inhuman attempt to transform the island back into the Greek Republic. Precious lawmakers followed a policy that followed the military peacekeeping movement of the Republic of Cyprus in 1974 followed many services in Cyprus, but in particular during the AK PARTI governments, Cyprus, especially as the Turkish side of the world, followed a policy in favour of the solution, without compromise, and in this framework, when the EC PARTI came to power in 2002, it took radical steps to resolve the country's problem, not to resolve its unresolvedness. Many activities have been done at the diplomatic level without compromise from the original founding quality of the Turkish Cypriot people to the preservation of equal rights on the island. Again, the economic and social gains of our brothers and sisters on the island have been increased, and the quality of life has been improved. At the same time, many investments were taken to Cyprus, just as in Turkey. One of them is a water project that will be used as drinking water and irrigation water from the world's first being done. The water project, which is about 74 kilometers [74 km], will soon be completed, and it will be used in the drinking water and irrigation water of Northern Cyprus. Again, many investments have been made in Hakeza, land roads and tourism. I hereby congratulate our Cypriot brothers on the July 20th Day of Peace and Freedom. I celebrate again the peace and freedom of the Turkish Cypriots, who carried out this peace movement, the Prime Minister of the period, the Vice Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan Hoxha, and the martyrs who died here. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0007par0047	Thank you, Mr. Oz. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Aylin Nazlıaka (the Ankara MP) who wants to talk about sports problems. Here you go, Mr. Nazliaka.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0008par0052	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise regarding Ankara's sports problems. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, of course, it is impossible to fully address Ankara's sports problems in a brief period of about five minutes. So, first of all, I'd like to say a few words about the Ankara Power. The Ankara Force is one of Turkey's most radical football teams, one of the sports teams, as all of you know or don't know, have learned over time by listening to us. Ankara power is also a team that is identified with the history of the republic and with our capital. This team, the pride of Ankara, unfortunately, has been going through a very difficult time in recent years because of a family's personal and political ambitions. I'm going to take the team to the championship. Ahmet Gökçek, who took over the club, promised to lead the team, unfortunately dragged the team into debt. In the process that started with this, the team first called PTT 1. The league, followed by Sports Toto 2. It's down to the league. We've expressed every opportunity to address the problems of Ankaragütür. I've made press statements about this, I've submitted parliamentary motions. Even Bursaspor has shown great support for these problems with Ankaragügör. However, Ankara's Metropolitan Mayor did not give up on Ankara Power fans as just a ballot depot and tried to deceive them by making them some promises from time to time. Look, in the past period, prior to the March 30, 2014 elections, the Metropolitan City Assembly issued a decision, which said that the Ankara Power would receive $2m in donations. Do you know how many liras have been donated to this day? Zero lira. That's how the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor plays with the feelings of Ankara's people and Ankara's forces, the valued MPs. I would like to address the Ankara MPs of the AKP in particular: How long will you ignore these injustices? How much longer are you going to stand by the lies of the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor you're protecting as a mortal? Look, valuable lawmakers, Ankara, as a capital, were actually where sports and athletes flourished, it was a center, but over the years, unfortunately, Ankara lost power with wrong policies, with wrong practices. I'll give you some numbers. For example, the number of active athletes currently exists in Ankara. Just give me 164 licensed athletes. The number of sports clubs is 1,003. That's how you got Ankara to the point. Of course, I must say that Ankara was also neglected by the Ministry of Youth and Sports during your time. In 2012, I asked the minister a question, and in his response to my question motion, he said there would be five sports facilities in Ankara. But so far, not even a nail has hit Ankara. Gene had promised Ankara a new stadium during the Plan Budget talks, but so far we haven't heard anything about a new stadium. I ask you, aren't good lawmakers essential to continuity in the state? Your minister may have been slapped, he may have been relieved of his post, shouldn't the new Minister have kept his promises, should he not have fulfilled them? Look how many opportunities Ankara has missed: Last year Ankara's name was mentioned when the World Cup matches were set to be played. But did you know that the mayor of this city, Ankara, has taken him off the list? So it also prevented Ankara from taking part in an organization that would boost its international reputation, while it also got ahead of a period in Ankara, where perhaps with some investments, new stadiums, and sports would grow with great enthusiasm. Yes, dear MPs, I'd like to address you one more time on this bench. The unification of sports is also a phenomenon that strengthens our social union. So let's not sacrifice this country's unity for political purposes. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0009par0064	Thank you, Mr. Nazliaka. According to the 60th article, I will make a promise to 10 of our friends. Now, I'm reading those 10 of our friends, and then I'll promise you one minute in order: Mr. Özkan, Mr. Atici, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Gürkan, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Çaldar, Mr. Çuk. Mr. Özkan, come in.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0010par0069	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to give an important warning to the government authorities. In many counties of our country, public buses carry out the public transportation process, while the law allows us to carry 65-year-old pensioners, widows and orphans, veterans and martyrs for free, but there is unpleasant debate between the two sides. Would you consider giving us a raise of 250 lira to our 65-year-old pensioners, widows, orphans, martyr families, and veterans who took advantage of this right to end these discussions? This raise will make both public buses and pensioners, widows and orphans, martyr families and veterans happy. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0011par0072	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0012par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. In March, the frosting and drought season has already become inextricable for our farmers, who are already overwhelmed by bank and loan debt. The government must take measures that will solve our farmers' problems with immediate measures. In particular, the ports of the province of Adana, Karaisan, Aladağ, Saimbeyli and Feke are having trouble paying the costs of cherry, walnuts, apple makers. And from the point of view of their debts over the past years, we're looking at farmers in the mountains and plains of the Toros. If the government doesn't take immediate measures, there may be irreparable consequences tomorrow. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0013par0077	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0014par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, when Yenice was one of the largest cities in Mersin, the municipality of the city was closed after the new Metropolitan Law, and all its assets were transferred to Tarsus and Mersin municipalities. Yesterday I went to Yenice. In a word, she's just miserable. The roads are turned upside down, they're not made; the garbage isn't collected, the park gardens aren't watered, the trees are drying, there's no one to dig a cemetery, there's no one to set up, there's no one to wash the funerals, not even a fire truck. They were all done by our local municipality before, and these problems were being solved. These problems of the new language must be resolved immediately. I speak to the authorities from here: it's a beautiful new city of peace, and it should be served in a way that suits the city of peace, I thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0015par0083	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0016par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the anniversary of Operation Peace on July 20, 1974. I'd like to express our gratitude to those who performed Operation Peace that day. Since they have prevented the great fight on the island, I return my regards and respects for preventing the massacre. Again, mercy on our fallen Mehmets there, mercy on those who die from our mujahideen, veterans, and long life to those who remain behind, I honor them with respect. Again, there were serious problems on the roads, on the pavements, after the hailing disaster in my hometown of Çarkesh. In order for these problems to be resolved immediately, the disaster program for Cherkesh...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0017par0089	Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0018par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. The balance and control network of 156 civil society initiatives has released a list of ten-point demands from candidates to ensure that the presidential elections are fair, equal and accountable. One of these demands is that donors regularly share donations and donor names with the public during the campaign. Presidents Ekmeleddin İhsanoğlu and Selahattin Demirtaş refrain from making this commitment as they approach this call positively. I remind the European Security and Co-operation Agency and the Venice Commission that transparency in the financing of the election campaign is indispensable, and I invite President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to explain his donors and donations, such as the other two candidates. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0019par0095	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0020par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. Through you, I'd like to ask the Minister of Environment and Urbanism: Your Ministry has authorized 49 megawatts of thermal power plant in the city centre of Burma, Demirtaş Organised Industry District. We know here that no information of the vocational rooms, no NGO, no university, no information of anyone, including the Metropolitan Municipality. I'd like to ask: Are you giving such permits directly from Ankara? Do you live there? What right do you allow to the cement factory in Ingegazi, and to the organised industrial area in Demirtaş? 500,000 tons a year and 1,200 tons of lignite coal a day will be burned, and 60 trucks or trucks will bring coal every day to Bursa. We have nowhere else to go but Bursa. I remind the Minister.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0021par0100	Mr. Fatosh Gürkan...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0022par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Because of the bombings that were dropped on Palestine by Israel, even three-day babies were brutally killed, I first condemn Israel. In the Israeli parliament, let's kill the mothers. For this racist and truly violent rhetoric, I condemn all the parliamentarians in the world to condemn this woman. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0023par0105	Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0024par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to convey the problems of grain and wheat producers through you. Especially at a time when fertilizer inputs were too high, and also this year, because of the heavy and fast rain, our wheat producers burned wheat in production and also reduced production. In contrast, the wheat base price, which should be explained every year, is still not announced by the Ministry of Agriculture. Again, farmers are finding it difficult to pay loans to co-opters and banks because the inputs are so high and the production is so low. At the same time, the Turkish Department of Earth crops has not been opened in the Çanakkale region this year, completely abandoned to the merchant's hand, and in that sense, unilaterally...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0025par0111	Mr. Chandar...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0026par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. Although the country's tourist destination has 10 times its normal population during the tourist season, unfortunately, our hospitals are unable to respond to that need. We call upon the Ministry of Health to be more sensitive to both equipment and staff supplements from the Mugla hospitals. In addition, environmental problems have not yet been resolved, although we have been talking about it many times. The thermal power plants, plus Lake Bafa, unfortunately, remain a disgrace. Olives are our only livelihood, and politics should not be made over it. We know you're preparing a law for this in the coming days. We need to be more sensitive about this. Finally, Israel, who persecuted the Palestinian people, strongly condemns them, and I declare that we stand by the righteous struggle of the Palestinian people.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0027par0118	Dear Drift...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0028par0120	Mr. President, thank you very much. In particular today's holy Ramazan day, I want to express that the attacks against Palestine and Gaza are still going on, and that Israel has attacked Gaza more than 1,470, once more, condemning it, and unfortunately, we have close to 200. Half the people who lose their lives are babies, children and women. The state of Israel is acting against international law and, unfortunately, slaughtering civilians. The other day, an Israeli MP, who did not take part in the human race, made a blood-cold and sadly arrogant statement. In Palestine, I strongly condemn this raging mindset, which wants them all to die, especially children and women. From here, in Palestine...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0029par0124	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0030par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. Israel's state violence has seen one of its peaks. The killing machine is working. Mosques, hospitals, and all civilian habitats without exception are under a brutal blockade. Women, children, old, sick, disabled people are on the target board. The number of martyrs has drawn near to 200, and there are thousands of wounded. Indeed, in the city of Sderot, a few miles from Gaza, it is shameful for the Israelites to watch bombs fall on Palestine as if they were watching a firework show, and to say the racist and hatred of a congressman. In the holy month of Ramadan, we pray for immediate healing for the wounded, as we bless the Palestinians who have passed away. We strongly condemn and destroy Israel. Mr. President, the other thing is what happened to the corruption and bribery. Unfortunately, 34 folders on the one hand have been returned as 11 folders, sent back by the Speaker of Parliament. The fezlekes have not opened the parliament's review of lawmakers. There have been all kinds of obstructions, the Parliamentary Investigation Commission has been blocked for sixty-five days. And now the President of the Investigation Commission has returned these proceedings to prevent a parliamentary investigation, which is not his job, and to ensure that the nation's sovereignty is established, in fact, delayed. There is no way this commission, with such a lack of law, could end the parliamentary investigation in peace. As the National Movement Party, we will continue our fight on this issue. We will make sure that corrupts and corrupts are accounted for in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and in front of the law. And I speak to the AKP: Don't run away from the judiciary, from the parliamentary investigation. Let's go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0031par0133	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0032par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, despite the holy month of Ramazan in the Middle East, the blood continues to flow, the massacres imposed on the people continue. In particular, we condemn all these massacres, which Israel, the Palestinian people, and also the ISIS gangs, have imposed on the Kurdish people in Kobani. We want to express our solidarity with the Palestinian people and the Kurdish people of Kobani, in Rojava, and our support from here as the Democratic Party of Peoples. In this regard, we would like to say that the government's attitude, its policy, is that at its point of preventing these massacres, let alone creating any effect, rather, is an attitude that encourages the release of these massacres. So far, we have expressed over and over again the need for effective measures against Israel, which have led so many massacres against the Palestinian people, that military, economic agreements must be suspended, and that is what we are expressing today. In Kobani, and in Rojava, the situation of the government is even more dire. The government must immediately step back from an attitude that supports the attacks of ISIS gangs in Kobani, opens borders to ISIS gangs, tries to drown the Rojava revolution. It is a crime of humanity and a crime of enforcing Rojava by keeping the border gates closed, and it forces all of us to endure. I'd like to express here that we no longer have the patience for this policy. Tens of thousands of our people, especially Suruç, who have collapsed at the border of Rojava, have expressed that the limit of long - suffering has been exceeded for days. In this regard, I say, the government must immediately give up its stance to support the current attackers. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0033par0139	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0034par0141	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, this is the month of the holy Ramadan. In Ramadan, Israel's attack against the Palestinians in the Middle East, Gaza, under the name of the similification, gradually turned into a massacre. We strongly condemn this massacre as the Republican People's Party Group. There is nothing that can be justified or justified about this act, this massacre. But what's sad is that such a massacre is happening in front of the international community, right next to Turkey. While Turkey was in a position to play the part of mediation in these issues at a time when its foreign policy was strong, I'm afraid there is no way that you can make a move on this issue in any way. I am calling on the world, the international community, to stop this massacre that Israel has committed in Gaza immediately. For this, the entire international community must take the necessary step, especially the United Nations. The second thing I'm going to say is that the Turkish Grand National Assembly has decided that a parliamentary investigative commission for the four ministers would be established, even if it were late, but the chairman of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission has decided to extradite the proceedings concerning the four ministers directly to the republic's prosecutor's office without having a commission meeting. The President of the Commission has clearly broken the law here and committed a crime. But I say with all our strength that no one will be able to cover up the allegations in these proceedings, as far as the ministers are concerned, this Parliament will certainly investigate the Prime Minister. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0035par0147	Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0036par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. As the AK PARTI Group, we also condemn Israel's inhuman attacks against Palestine, Palestine and the Palestinians, which we can call genocide, and we want them to know that they also have attacks that aim to eliminate their right to live freely, including to form a state, and as a Turkish nation, we stand with them in the strongest way in the right struggles of our Palestinian brothers and sisters. Israel occasionally makes such attacks against the Palestinian people, against the Palestinians. But out of a few countries, there is no response to what needs to be done. In the beginning, an effort, a struggle, a voice, a struggle, to stop these inhuman attacks, should be the strong voice that should be, including the United Nations organization, at first. We invite the entire world to speak and intervene in a more powerful way in the face of these inhuman attacks, in order to bring these attacks to an end. We ask them to break their silence. This is the duty of all men, of all men. Turkey, the state government of the Republic of Turkey, has always been the subject of the Palestinian people... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0037par0153	The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the Law provisions on the amendments in Articles of the Law and Law, which entered into effect in 2005, we offer and provide the Constitution's requirements for the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution in order to address the issues related to the access of disabled persons and to address the current setbacks and to ensure full implementation of the laws. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] Turkey has about 8.5 million disabled people in Turkey, according to data from the 2002 Turkish Retarded Research. However, the social participation of the disabled is extremely limited. The number of institutions that provide services for disabled persons is extremely inadequate. The possibility of education, work, social life is very limited. Legal regulations are not possible. Among other things, some legal regulations are extremely important, but the problems in the application cannot be eliminated. There's no system for law enforcement. The Law on Responsors No. 5378 in 2005 and Changes in Decisions Under Some Laws and Laws has an important place in this regard. This law provides the state with the responsibility to ensure that the disabled can live independently and participate effectively in all areas of life, and to take appropriate measures to ensure that the disabled can access physical environment, transportation, information and communication technologies and systems in both rural and urban areas, and access to other public facilities and services under equal conditions. This arrangement entered into force seven years ago, and the interim articles of Law No. 5378, which makes arrangements for disabled persons, bring important obligations in this regard. These articles predict that existing official structures belonging to public institutions and institutions, all roads, sidewalks, pedestrian crossings, open and green areas, sports areas and other social and cultural infrastructure areas, and all kinds of structures made by real and corporate people, and all kinds of structures that serve public and public institutions, should be in line with the access of the disabled. In the same way, city municipalities and municipalities must be accessible to the disabled within seven years of 7 July 2005, when the existing private and public transport vehicles are in effect. The local authorities have been given great tasks in implementing the provisions of this law, but unfortunately, since this law has been passed, no further progress has been made but one or two arrangements. Even the obligations clearly stated in the law are not fulfilled. There is no serious project, no concrete planning and no conscious transformation effort, which is aimed at providing disabled access. The absence of legal regulations is due to lack of a control mechanism in this area. Physical environmental conditions, architectural arrangements and public transportation that make it difficult for disabled people to participate in public life and even make it impossible. Although seven years have passed, the lack of proper criteria reveals the government and local governments' stance on the situation. However, the issue is extremely important and directly linked to human rights. The European Union-Turkey Progress Report 2011 has also noted that constitutional amendments for positive discrimination on behalf of disabled persons have not been transformed into specific measures, emphasised that a national mechanism has not yet been established to monitor implementation of the United Nations Convention on Rights and the Old Man Protocol. The situation is very clear. In order to increase the participation of disabled people in social and economic life, a serious monitoring and monitoring mechanism is needed to make it necessary to implement regulations. Under the law, the deadline for 2005 expires on 7 July 2012. With respect to the General Assembly's appreciation for the seven-year-old arrangements and the progress of the Turkish Grand National Assembly to form a research commission to determine the extent of the problem and to prepare a road map for the resolution of the disabled's accessibility issues. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully present the need for the opening of Parliamental research under the basis of Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, which threaten the social structure and are deeply affected by the violence, murder and suicides in the community, and under the necessary measures. [[Gaziantep]] [[Hatay]] [[Ankara]] [[Ardahan]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Adana]] 11) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] 14) Bedii Suheyl Batum [[Eskişehir]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Fatma Nur Serter [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 18) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 19) Mehmet Emrehan Halici [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] In our country, the family institution has always held an important place, aware that strong societies can be built with strong ties to family structures. The importance of the family is "the foundation of family society" in our Constitution. It's reflected in the expression. The family, founded on this philosophy, has been the most secure institution in which individuals are loved for being free and only because they are themselves by other family members. However, in recent years, particularly with the injustice of the share of income, events that indicate that this property of the Turkish family structure has been severely damaged, one after the other, and do not slow down. The depth of the gap between the rich and the poor also spreads into the family the fight of the outside bread. This is causing the number of women who have been brutally murdered by their children by their parents, who have been tortured by their parents, and who have died by their wives, to increase day by day. Parents' murder, wife murder, child murder, or "family murder" is one of the main problems of our country. On the other hand, the number of suicides, a manifestation of self-violent violence, has increased 30 times in ten years, killing 17,000 people in the last six years alone. Violence in the family is also the basis of events described in our country as "violence against women," "tor violence in sports," and "violence in sports." The individual, who witnessed violence within the family, is violent with those whom he meets at various stages of his life, under the influence of his financial crisis. Because of its lack of guidance, the people stabbed or shot for looking sideways, the babies who were put into a coma because they cried, the children who were killed because they rang the doorbell, the lives who were killed because they couldn't pay the bill are the echoes of this situation and the danger of the social insanity phenomenon. It's also another critical dimension of the problem, when it's been seen as "page three news" in the face of insanity. The events mentioned actually show that society has changed fundamentally and radically. In our society, where mercy, justice, and tolerance are valid, long - suffering, long - suffering, and ruthlessness have become widespread. Relationships built on the ground of love and respect move towards the surface of anger. This change and transformation must be seriously focused on and taken urgent measures. For reasons mentioned above, it would be appropriate to open a parliamentary examination of the Constitution under Articles 98, Article 104 and 105 of the Interior Charter, in order to immediately determine all aspects of the reasons underlying murders, suicides, and insanity that have begun to dominate the entire community. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the problems and solutions of the National Park of Gallipolis and our citizens living within and around the National Park, we propose that a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution be opened under Articles 104 and 105. With all due respect. 1) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Aydın]] [[Çanakkale]] 9) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Slap]] [[Manisa]] 19) Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Hatay]] 21) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 23) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] "This is how the country is defended," the Gelipoli Peninsula Historical National Park stood up under the most difficult conditions of the Turkish nation. The land where the word is filled, every square meter is watered by the blood of the martyrs, the earth is considered impenetrable. Throughout history, the intersection of merchants, armies, victorious commanders, trade routes, Çanakkale and the Bosphorus Straits have increased significantly since the Ottoman State made Istanbul the capital. Since ancient times, the land that has not lost its importance is the shortest way for Asia's riches to move to Europe. It is one of the strategic sites in the world because of its properties. It is located on the southern tip of the Gallipoli Peninsula on the European side of the province of Çanakkale, surrounded by the national park, the Canakkale Strait, and the Gulf of Saroz. It is listed on the United Nations National Parks and Protection Areas list. It is surrounded by the Aegean Sea and the Canakkale Strait, respectively, to the west, south, and east. But there is a territorial border north of the national park. In total, eight of the 12 residential units in the Eceabat district of Çanakkale are in Milli Park. These are the villages of Alççütepe, Behramite, Bigalı, Grandanafarta, Kapibahir, Bigadere, Küçükanafarta, and Seddülbahir. Within its borders are martyrs, foreign soldiers' graves, battlefields, remains of war, plates, castles, trenches, monuments, books, museums, promotional centers, resorts. These remains have been declared and preserved as sites and cultural assets. The Gallipoli Peninsula has a geography worth seeing with its natural beauty. On the coast where the sea meets the forest, its coves, its beaches are flooded with one-day visitors from nearby provinces on the sun-lit peninsula for most of the year. Because of the shortcomings and errors in the Historical National Park Law and the implementation of the Gallipoli Peninsula, constructions, excavations, constructions, roadwork, damage to historical and cultural values is being done, living areas in the region are being restricted and unable to produce on their territory. In addition, serious errors and problems are being made in the area regarding the organisation, discipline, and guidance services. Life within the national park must be arranged by a very serious investigation, by receiving their views, by communicating with the democratic leaders of the locals, with the mayors, with the mayors, with the NGOs. It is not possible to protect, protect, protect the region, and carry cultural and historical heritage to future generations without offering the possibility of happy and peaceful life to the people of the region. For this reason, a parliamentary study of the Gallipoli Peninsula is needed in order to determine the problems and solutions of the Historical National Park and our citizens living within and around the National Park. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Members of lawmakers, Women, Men's Opportunity Equality, Public Economic Initiatives and European Union Compliance Commissions also have a membership for non-political party members. Lawmakers who are not members of the political party group who want to run for these commissions are on Monday (July 21, 2014) at 18 p.m. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has three papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The request to visit the Council of Parliament for research and review in some countries of Manisa's Commission for the Commission's Committee of Assembly for Business Health and Occupational Safety, which should be taken into account by investigating Mining Accidents on May 13, 2014 in Soma County, has been met with the approval of the General Assembly on the basis of the Council of Ministers' decision 26/06/2014. It is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0038par0340	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit01spe0037par0341	I submit to your votes... I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0037par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough of a decision in the presidential motion. Now, I'm going to re-offer the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough of a decision, it's accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly "The United Nations Convention on Desertization (UNCCD) 11th, which will be held on July 31, 2014 in the capital of Chad, N'Djamena. The Parliamentary Committee for Guidance of the Forum shall be presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990, as part of the Agricultural, Forest and Village Affairs Commission and Karabuk MP Osman Caffeci. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Adıyaman MP Mehmet Erdogan, Adıyaman MP Ramis Topal, Ankara MP Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh on the occasion of the Peace and Freedom Day of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus on July 20th, Turkish Cypriot President Mr. Dr. Dervis Eroglu and the head of the Turkish Republic Assembly of the Turkish Cypriot Assembly, Mr. Dr. Sibel Siber (KTC) are subject to a formal visit to KKTC (KTC/90) on behalf of Turkish Cypriots's Council on the grounds of Peace and Freedom. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting on Tuesday/7/2014 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 14 April 2014, Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan (5234 rows no. It has been suggested that ISIS and Al Nusra organisations, known for their acts of atrocities against the people of Rojava and for their efforts to drag our country's young to the war in Syria, be read in the same session of the parliamentary research motion given to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, before other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. The first statement in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is in Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0039par0036	Mr. President, I'd like a word in favor.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0037par0037	He came... Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0040par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, today with our proposal for research, this blessed Ramazan day in Syria, with the legionaries he has gathered from all over the world, with armed forces, with imperial armed forces behind him, Al Qaeda, Al Nusradan ISIS, the last ISIS to be unstable in Iraq, the capture of the Sunni in Iraq, to declare themselves as a hilaphic, from there to the Turks, the Assyrians, the Ezids, and the entire world's eyes of the world. These gangs have taken advantage of Syria's instability from the Iraqi army in Mosul, with tanks, with artillery, with superior weapons, in Kobani. Since a few days now, they have been violent attacks in the region of Cerablus, around Reyadine, on the border of Suruç, on the border of Beercik, on our border. In the face of these attacks, I am a human being, who says, "Muslim," who says, "I am a Muslim." In this case, all those who take part in humanity should be condemned: Kobani means the continuation of these attacks in Turkey. In Kobani, you know, after the canton declared by the Kurdish people, the Arabs, the Turks, the Suryans under the direction of the Cizire, they defend themselves, they defend themselves. However, since yesterday, military troops have been sent across the border by Turkey as well, following the increase of the conflict. We're very clear here that in the face of these attacks by those who still hold the Musul consulate's employees hostage, our Deputy Director has made it clear that the government has made clear to the Palestinian people that the Israeli people are facing all the massacres, all the massacres against civilians, but we expect them to be sensitive to the people of Kobani, the Kurdish people for three years, and the Muslims, the Sunni, and the people who attacked them for Islam. Some ministers here express it as a terrorist organization, but according to the data we have, the government must still be more careful and more sensitive to these reports that they have logistical support from Turkey, that they have bases in and out of Turkey and that they are launching attacks from Turkey. Because in the solution and peace strategy, the people of Turkey are faced with an option: whether it is Afrin, Ankara, Kobani, Ciraire, from there to there to the southern border and at the eastern border of 45 million Kurds who will again establish the desire to live strategically together with the people of Kobani, or close the doors of these gangs, not the heads of the massacres, not the slightest appearance of those who put women in line with bullets, and those who have clearly declared the laws of violence from one place to the other, and those who have been fed, and controlled from one place to the rest of these gangs who have kept their lives together for a thousand more years, or closed the borders of the people of Turkey, the people of Turkey, the Kurdish people who have seen the future, and they need to investigate the future of the Ottomans and the Ottomans of Turkey, and the Ottomans of Turkey. Turkey cannot maintain its passive-supporting position by being an audience in the Middle East, friends. Look, in the attack on the Turks in Tuzhurmatu, was there anywhere else to go when the Turkmen's migration routes were headed towards Erbil? Of course, fate forces it to do so, and it is of course the rights of the people here to determine their fate in the Middle East, in a democratic, free government. We want to make it clear from here that because of the wrong policies in Syria, Turkey must now take a clear stand, not clear, but a deterrent attitude. Because the end of these attacks does not stop at the border of Suruç, friends enter Turkey, Turkey comes into it. Look, look at the recent conflicts, in Kahramanmarash, with Syrian refugees, and in Adana, and in Antioch. Nearly 1 million refugees; under every traffic light in Ankara, there is a Syrian refugee, a woman, a child. Is it acceptable to accept the consequences of this wrong policy, the funerals, the deaths on this blessed day of Ramadan, the massacres -- without segregation -- because Aleppo is a Kurdish? We see that the government has not made a clear stand against this. For the hostages in Mosul, please release them. Do you think it's true, my friends? Shouldn't such an organization be more careful in the face of a gang that holds its own citizens hostage, raiding their consulate, attacking Turks, attacking Kurds, attacking Suryans, attacking all who aren't themselves, and also using them as subcontractors from Afghanistan to Libya, from Libya to Yemen to a certain force, and being assembled in a certain force, from Qatar to Saudi Arabia, Saudi Arabia to the imperial countries? In this framework, we, the People's Democratic Party, are considering the necessity of a very serious investigation into this matter, my friends. The future of the Middle East, the future of Syria, the fate of the people there, the fate of the Iraqi peoples, the impact on Turkey in the event of its division into sects, the impact on the ethnicity of Turkey... isn't it the duty of the government to determine the right decisions as the Assembly after they've been identified, and to help the wounded in the face of attacks there, to help the wounded, to prevent children from meeting the most essential needs, such as milk, food, medicine, Turkey's official policy? On this day of Ramadan, put your hand on your conscience and think about it. We're all saying that it's time for us to look into this together. I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0041par0050	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Amasya MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0042par0054	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. I thank the People's Democratic Party very much for this motion because with this motion, they're putting up a stand against legitimate political organizations of violence and persecution in the region. I find it very valuable. At the same time, being in legitimate politics means always being in the line of legitimacy, and I also congratulate him on the belief that it represents a general and categorical objection to all sorts of non-violence elements, regardless of any distinctions between his terrorist organization and terrorist organization. That's legitimate politics. By exploiting various sacred values themselves -- this may sometimes be ethnic identities, sometimes there may be some elements of religious narrative -- they come together, and they can carry together their feelings of rebellion, their feelings of injustice, and with them they become an instrument of persecution and violence. It is vital to defend this line in the name of legitimate politics. I don't think it's the kind of style -- they call it "apologetic" in political science -- that's justifying itself, always looking at it from its perspective. In fact, the Republic of Turkey has a foreign policy that objects to all such events in the region, regardless of any discrepancies between them, wherever there is persecution, wherever there is violence, wherever there is dishonor, and in the field of international relations, trying to draw a line through this sense of right and justice. Dear friends, the underdog has no nationality. If a man is oppressed, whether you are a Kurdish or a Turk or a Suryani or a Nusayri or a Sunni or a Shii, it is not to be looked at. The underdog has only one identity, and that's just that he's underdog. Whoever has a human and conscientious quality, a quality, a world view, a stance, a hand, an arm, a shield for him, it's his duty, it's his duty, it's his duty, it's his duty, it's his duty. In fact, when we look at our history, when we look at the values that we're trying to move into the future, that's what we're doing. We're always talking about the size of the Turkish nation. What makes the Turkish nation great? I'm the greatest nation, and all the nations are lower in the hierarchy. Is it a showenist understanding that says, "Hyerarchy"? No, there's no history of that. What makes the Turkish nation great is the respect it shows to other nations, to other beliefs, and the hand it shows even to the people it fights. When we say Turkish people, we think of Alparslan, who reached out to the defeated Romanian Diajen, in the war. When we say the Turkish nation is great, we hear the word of Ataturk, who came from thousands of miles away to Çanakkale, and fought against the Anzak soldiers who fought against Mehmetçik. What did Ataturk say: "O mothers of Anzak, wipe out your tears, they are now our sons with Mehmetchik, who lie together in the lap." Yes, the Russians are a great nation, and the Sheikh Shamil, who rebelled against them, stood up and gave them his sword. That's what makes the nations great. With such greatness, the Turkish nation looks at the future from such a perspective of greatness to this Middle East geography, not based on faith, not on identity, but with an understanding that tries to extend its hand wherever it is persecuted. The policy of the Republic of Turkey is represented today by the firm advocate and will of its state by the EC PARTY. Dear friends, adventurous groups happen all the time. In the 19th century, Bakunin tried to revolutionize Poland with 250 people. Che Guevara was an adventurer. If you look at it, it's just because it's successful, it's a legitimate policy. If Batista had won, the place where Guevara would have been written were gangs, terrorist organizations, but they succeeded, the way politics spoke changed. In this geography, there are various groups that exploit sacred values and fight for power and power through them. Yes, Islam is very abused. The only element of Islam is the abuse of groups who are constantly emphasising it with an understanding that it is like a jihad, who want to continue the struggle for power and power over this value of Islam. Yes, there is abuse of ethnic identities in this geography; there are those who want to be part of this geography of violence and violence through identity, through faith. The state of the Republic of Turkey looks at both sides: on one side, regardless of who it is, is a decisive stance against those who want to come together and impose persecution on others, but on the other hand, is also a focus on the background that allows such adventures, such gatherings, such backgrounds. We know that the group called ISIS, the terrorist group, is the current government in Iraq and its practices, its sectarian approaches. Otherwise, no group of adventurers can provide such broad support, so easily they can't move forward in this geography. We, on the one hand, object to this violence and persecution, and we know that if there is no Middle Eastern geography based on right and justice, there will be more bloodshed in this geography, and more violence scenes will be brought out. So, together with both sides, we take the same kind of decisive stance against the background practices, political understanding, alliances that create the opportunity and the ground when we say no to persecution on the one hand. My Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) friends may be customers; the Republic of Turkey has a vast and rich experience of how such terrorist organizations collect men, how they work, what ways they use them. In this experience, the state of the Republic of Turkey operates with its careful and international partners in the same way as the PKK was being followed yesterday, if this type of man is being prevented from pickings, and today in Middle Eastern geography, he is conducting a study against groups that invite people to adventure, but do so through sacred narratives. To date, 5,000 people have been identified as the intermediary of various initiatives -- ISIS, al-Qaeda -- who wanted to transfer men to the Middle East in connection with Europe -- have been banned from the country, and 500 people have been deported from the country, so that they may not be able to pass through and see their work. Joint policies are being developed against the countries of the European Union, as well as the countries of North Africa, these gangs that are trying to recruit men for the Middle East. Thus, the state is trying to prevent our children from joining in both internationally and in Turkey by working with a close brand, sometimes one-on-one. And while they're doing that, we're not looking at whether they're picking Kurds or Turks. Whoever it is, no one can use this country's citizens as an instrument of their adventurous tendencies, not by the blood of our citizens. The stable stance in this direction is maintained in the field, everywhere, in every way, with the resources of the cyberspace and with the resources of intelligence. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wanted to declare it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0043par0070	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. In favor of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz, please come in.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0044par0073	Thank you. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, let me tell you, we support the group proposal of the People's Democratic Party. Unfortunately, the terror organization, which has nothing to do with Islam or humanity, has recently developed its extensions in our country. Therefore, this matter must be thoroughly investigated by the Parliament. Unfortunately, the speaker, who just spoke for the ruling party group, said: "Sir, our government is not religious and religious in foreign policy." I wish it were true, unfortunately it is not. Not so much so that you are hosting Tariq Hashimi, the man who invaded Mosul, occupied our consulate, who is now the first to congratulate ISIS, who has captured our citizens, who is responsible for the terrors in Iraq. The head of ISIS is here, you are hosting, protecting the police of my state, feeding this man above my blood, staying in your government, your municipality's guesthouse, isn't that a sectarian policy? Why Hashimi? What do you have to do with Tariq Hashimi?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0045par0077	How did Hashimi get here?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0044par0078	In Turkey, up to you, foreign policy was done in all republical governments according to the country's interests. For the first time, you've established religion in the AKP government and unfortunately, a sectarian axis policy. This, look, is gonna be a pain in the ass. It's called ISIS, you know, against our Turkish-Islamic understanding, my classical sense of Hanefi. If this understanding prevails, then he will cut off the head of those who pray in the evening at Eyup Sultan. He will also bomb Eyup Sultan, and bomb him. Today in Iraq, Syria, this twisted understanding of the prophet's grandson's tomb, the tomb of the prophet who destroyed the tomb of the prophet, and the liver-eating understanding of the Turks, does not accept Muslims. So fear God, do not feed, do not grow. The ISIS organization, you know, is made up of a lot of terrorist groups. Terrorists from thirty and forty countries around the world have moved to Syria via Turkey. I made a question proposal, asked about foreign nationals who came to Hatay Airport. Thousands of people are moving to Syria using Hatay Airport. Again, the opponents you support say that we have received 400 tons of weapons from Arab countries. We transferred these weapons through Turkey to Syria. On 25 August 2013, a report by Reuters news agency said that opposition groups from Syria needed these weapons to increase their weapons capacity. These weapons, bought by Arab countries, were brought to Syria via Hatay. 20 armed trucks have been pointed out that they are headed towards weapons depots belonging to various opposing groups. Again, Turkey has established an airline via Croatia, sending 3,500 tons of military equipment to them, to these terrorists. Dear friends, today Chechnya, Tunisia, Morocco, Lebanon, Azerbaijan, Jordan, Libya, your brother Saudi Arabia, Qatar feeds them, supports them, you provide logistical support, you provide weapons training, they have camps. (x) You drove here and there, fellow prosecutors investigating the weapons going to Syria. Dear friends, these people were doing their duty. Now it turns out you have another purpose. So, as you drop Mosul to the thing, as you draw the Sunni Islam line, you leave Kerkuk to Barzani, you leave Kurdish territory, and you sell the oil of Kerkuk to Israel today, and on this day of Ramadan, those Israeli planes are throwing bombs at the oppressed Palestinian people. You're in charge, and you're under a plague. This understanding, this ISIS understanding, dear friends, was the last to emerge in our country. It's come out so much...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0046par0081	Haven't you read it or seen the explanations?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0044par0082	Listen up, listen up, listen up. That understanding will kill, that understanding will hang, that understanding will see it as necessary for those who don't think as he does, and those who don't believe as he does. That understanding was last developed in Istanbul. In Esenyurt, they sabotaged a window a month ago, and we didn't bring it into the agenda so as not to provoke it, but last week, again, they went into the mosque called the Muhammad Mosque in Esenyurt, and they burned the mosque in the mosque, and they burned the mosque in it, and I brought it in, and I'll show you now. See, see, see, see, they burned this Qur'an! What are you fighting for? God damn the understanding that burned the Qur'an on Ramadan day!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0047par0084	Shit, shit!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0044par0085	Come and see this. You support this understanding, and fear God. Oh, you didn't even condemn that. They entered the mosque with their shoes on. They had a drink. You don't even condemn those who made up their lie! What are you guys going to condemn? (HPP cheers) You're just dealing with this, blessed Koran.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0048par0086	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0044par0087	You're dealing with it, just like the sergeant put it on the tip of his spears. It's so obvious, you're not sincere. I'm talking on mubarak Ramadan day. Have fear of God, and I will show you again. Have you no respect for that? The Qur'an has been burned in this country! Friends, if it was in a foreign country, you'd be making a fuss, now there'd be numbers, the Prime Minister won't even condemn it! Yeah, well, that doesn't happen, I'm going crazy! Guys, what are you fighting for?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0049par0089	Don't provoke.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0044par0090	What religion, what faith? Well, condemn it, condemn it. This is a terrorist. Say, "God damn those who did this." Say, "Guys, blame them." There was no reprimand from the government. Your Minister of Interior -- Minister of Bureaucracy -- says that the Prophet, the Prophet, boasted after Mecca, made a mistake, spoke out of line, and spoke out of line.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0050par0092	Come on, man!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0044par0093	Let the Home Secretary do his job, catch them, catch these terrorists, catch those who burn the Koran. The Home Secretary doesn't understand. All the acts of the prophet, and all his words, and his actions, were under the control of God. If he doesn't get it, this guy better not talk! It's a shame! My lord, when the Lord of Resullah has conquered Mecca, we will not make that mistake. Who the hell are you? Is that a thing? You guys condemn it. A minister mocks the Koran, a minister despises the Prophet. Then you say religion, faith, the Koran. So I'm really going crazy. Dear friends, under the circumstances, I don't want to talk anymore. We support this motion. This murderer says, "God forbid our country from this wild, desperate, filthy sense of filth," and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0051par0098	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0052par0099	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0051par0100	Mr. Orator has accused the terrorist organization of supporting it.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0052par0101	He didn't reveal himself to you. The group's vice presidents can respond.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0051par0102	But he said it to the political committee that I belong with.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0052par0103	The group's deputy presidents can answer, if they hand it over to you. The MEHMET NACI BOSTANI (Amasya) declared that I was not telling the truth at the entrance. No, they'll pass it on to you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0053par0106	Mr. President, I'm handing it over.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0052par0107	Okay. I'm just saying it in a way because it's just that, you know, it doesn't always happen when you're around. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0054par0112	Thank you. We listened to Ali Bey. Mr. orator, in the first five or six minutes he gave a very rational speech, and then, suddenly, he's become a vector, and I think it's to make us share in his feelings -- I think it's because of the love of the Koran -- he's really excited, and I congratulated him, but if a response based on the love of the Qur'an can also mediate such an angry speech to his fellow Muslims...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0055par0114	I'm saying blame him.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0054par0115	And I have to say, this is not a very specific vector. Secondly, Ali Bey Tariq Hashimi declared him head of ISIS, saying that we were protecting him. If Mr. Ali had mentioned the previous half of the film here, then he would have seen the whole film. Why did Tariq Hashimi flee from Iraq, Mr. Ali? You know him, you must have followed him.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0056par0118	I'll tell you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0054par0119	Tariq Hashimi was forced to seek refuge in Turkey because there was a danger of being executed as a result of the government's coastal policy for the Sunnis. Aren't you saying that when Turkey becomes Tarek Hashimi, when this man is Sunni, when he is oppressed, we will not support him? Don't worry, Mr. Ali, no matter what his faith is in us, all the oppressed are sacred, saints, and I'd like to declare that we will be a shadow for them as well.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0057par0122	Well, well, well!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0058par0123	Well, well, well! They can't call ISIS a terrorist organization!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0054par0124	And to those who say, "Wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, I'm fighting with the greetings of God." Thanks, guys.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0058par0127	Those who legalize the PKK... may Allah make right, Lord, and may Allah make right, and may we pray with our fasting mouth in holy Ramadan.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0059par0128	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0060par0129	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0059par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bostanci, you're actually putting your point of view out even when you're talking here. Why did Tarek Hashimi run away? What do you mean, sir, here, in Iraq -- in a nail -- Shii Maliki, Shii Maliki! Oh, for God's sake... Look, when you talk to the prime minister of which country... do you say "Sünni Mursi", do you say "Sunni Saddam"? You address a country's prime minister with a cult of: "Shii Maliki." There are 17 statements of the people who worked in Maliki's office; he was sentenced to death. That's right, we don't accept execution. You can send it, brother. Why are you feeding it here? Fuck him, go to hell! It's not my business, why feed it? You can't take care of the saints. Our flag is as holy as the Qur'an, two flags have been dropped in ten days in this country, why don't you take care of it? Which holy one? I mean, holy, holy...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0061par0135	You were taking the lead when you were being taken down in the middle of the Red moon. You were taking the lead when you were being taken down in the middle of the trip.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0059par0136	Sir, what happened during the travel process, during the travel process?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0061par0137	You were the leader, and they burned the flag in Kızılay. Where were you then?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0059par0138	With your provocation, your... don't talk! Shut up!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0061par0139	Where were you when the flag was lit in Reday? Your deputies were leading them.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0059par0140	It's your provocateurs, your agents in the police, if you're not smart enough to understand that, what can I tell you?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0061par0141	Get out of here, get out of here!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0059par0142	So, Mr. Bostanci, the incident here is in Iraq's internal affairs...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0061par0143	You're a porter, just a porter. You were all there when you were burned in Rediay. What are you...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0062par0144	Why didn't you come, Reday?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0059par0145	Even if the Iraqi government has a religious approach, foreign policy is to act according to the country's interests, which suit the government of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0063par0147	Mr. Sergeant, please...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0059par0148	I don't care, bro. I don't care. Shi, Sunni, Flame...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0064par0149	There's nothing going on with the hikers taking it down! Hamaset!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0059par0150	Why do you want to overthrow Syria, Assad, and Assad? We'll pray this Friday at Emevi Mosque in Damascus. Is that so? Even when you say that, it turns out you're a sectarian. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0065par0157	Against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal, Mr Sinan Oğan, the Iğdır MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0066par0160	Thank you. Mr. President, first of all, while we're talking here, there are still bombs raining in Gaza, and our Palestinian brothers are still dying in Gaza under Israeli bombs, moaning. But beyond that, I'm afraid an Israeli MP has made a statement that gives you the creeps so much that I wish we could condemn it as Congress, not as individuals, but as Congress. I condemn the MP named Ayelet Shaket, who is unfortunately a woman, not only their own, but also their mother's. By the way, dear friends, I've made a question proposal and I said, "Why is Israel and our trade growing?" There must be an explanation for the fact that our trade with Israel is still increasing. In the official answer I've been given, politics is another, trade is another. I don't accept the word. Our trade with Israel is still growing during the AKP government, and I need an explanation from here that one of the most growing countries is Israel. I don't mean my person, as a deputy, as a member of the nation, you have to explain this to the Turkish nation. There's no tourism in this, especially when there's no revenues or gains from military agreements, they've been cancelled, they've been canceled correctly, but you can't say: "Sir, Israel is trading private sectors with Israel." You can't say that. The countries trade with their friends, and if Israel is your friend, then I understand why Turkey's trade with Israel is constantly increasing, but tell my Muslim brother there that every day a country that is dropping bombs on this Ramadan is not my brother, it is your brother, or it's your brother, or it's the bombs that fall there every day, and it's your trade point that will contribute to this nation's contribution. So if you're going to call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- let's call it a-- It's not artistic, it's serious politics.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0067par0163	Mr. President, if you're going to intervene, you're going to do the artistic thing. He says, we're doing politics here. Let him correct his speech, please, orator!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0066par0164	Dear friends, today's...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0067par0165	Mr. President, if you promise so much, make it right!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0066par0166	We have not yet heard of the burning of the Qur'an, which Mr. Ali Özgündüz was speaking of, and of your reproach on this holy month.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0067par0167	And you have no respect for the work! You have no self-respect!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0066par0168	We have not yet heard the reproach of burning the Qur'an on this blessed day.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0067par0169	Had it not been for our guardians, you would not have blamed us.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0066par0170	We haven't heard from Mr. Prime Minister, and we haven't heard from any of your representatives here, or any of your group's vice presidents. If we, there, are burning the Qur'an in the mosque... If you stood on this word in the squares for a month, you should have said something about burning down a mosque. Dear friends, ISIS, unfortunately, has been slaughtering in Iraq and Syria lately, but it's strange that the massacres of ISIS do not come up in any way, and even when they do, there are certain glasses, where even those exposed to the massacre of ISIS are not remembered as a whole, the Turkmen are left out of Iraq and Syria. Right, ISIS in Iraq massacres both our Arab brothers and Kurdish brothers, and ISIS in Syria, as well as our Arab brothers and Kurdish brothers, but ISIS slaughters the most Turkishmen in both Syria and Iraq, and unfortunately, there is no serious response from your government or other parties, including the party that even proposed this proposal. Now, the party that proposed the proposal says: "Isil is gathering terrorists from Turkey." Right, ISIS is collecting terrorists from Turkey. It's almost as if Turkey is the source of terrorist organizations around the world. But isn't the PKK gathering terrorists from Turkey? Aren't the YPG and the PYD who fought ISIS collecting terrorists from Turkey? Recently, in our Southeast Anatolian region, Turks fighting ISIS are dying on both ISIS fronts and fighting on YPG-PYD fronts, and their graves are being buried in Turkey, Turkey. You have to tell both sides of the story, the people who fought against ISIS and the people who fought against ISIS's attacks, but who eventually fought in the ranks of terrorist organizations. Today, Turkey has people on nearly 5,000 ISIS lines, 5,000, that's a big number. I want to brief you: 2,500 people from Saudi Arabia, 2,500 from EU countries, 5,000 from Northern Africa, 500 from the Balkans, 800 from Russia, 800 from Pakistan, 400 from the UK, 120 from the United States, 3,000 from Tunisia, 500 from Morocco. Dear friends, we're dealing with a large global and a terrorist organization from all over the world. And this terrorist organization is using social media with so much skill that it's creating heads with sound and effects that will rock Hollywood movies, and it's being presented as a propaganda tool. In Turkey, you can find people who throw it away, I don't know, who say that to the Prime Minister in a heartbeat, but today, there are thousands of accounts in Turkey that sit at home and support ISIS through social media. After a while, those young people join the ISIS line. In Europe, we see that people who are outcast today but who can't fully live in Muslim identity, well-educated people, children, children who grow up in war games and are what we call the generation of computerists, are now becoming representatives of ISIS, while they go and play war games on the computer in Syria, Iraq, where they start to use them against our people. Therefore, this matter is not a simple matter. This issue has deep dimensions, and this issue has a serious impact on the Turks in Europe because there is participation from the Turks in Europe, and after a while in Turkey -- I draw the bottom -- the natural allies of ISIS will emerge. With a directive sent by ISIS via social media, people who can launch effective attacks on many places, including parliament, are being trained online, friends. I don't know if anyone's following you. I'm following this as president of a strategy centre, and I know very well that thousands of social media accounts have been closely monitored in Turkey, that ISIS has been given social media support from Turkey. Our Minister of the Interior -- Mr. Ali has just expressed himself -- let the Prophet take care of them rather than speak to the Lord. In Turkey, you take young people out of their homes because they've spoken against your government, but nothing is being done to a mass of people who give serious social media support to a terrorist organization. It's worth it, friends, of course, not knowingly bringing censorship to the Internet or anything like that, but I'd like to point out the extent of the danger we're facing. Today, ISIS has a social media support that no terrorist organization in the world has, and from our home, our own children, our own people, the ISIS can target them from where they sit, lure them into thinking that they are the most dangerous thing in the world. This is not a security weakness that can be endured for Turkey, but it can have a very serious impact on both Turkey's domestic and foreign policy. For this reason, ISIS says that aid to ISIS, including those who collect money from mosques from Turkey along Ramadan, must be immediately taken under the radar and that the young people whom ISIS has compelled in Turkey must be found soon, and that they must be regained, he says.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0068par0179	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0069par0181	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit02spe0068par0182	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0068par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the People's Democratic Party Group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting on Tuesday (July 15, 2014), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On Tuesday (November 5th 2012) it has been suggested that our parliamentary research proposal for the measures which should be taken by investigating the problems of the subcontractors, which we have given to the head of the TBMM by 5 November 2012 and 6558 points, should be met today, as well as at the General Assembly on Tuesday 15/7/2014 (now). On behalf of the National Movement Group's proposal, Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0070par0019	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of our Nationalist Movement Party Group on the group's proposal to investigate the situation of subcontractors and take necessary precautions. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, unemployment rates are constantly increasing in our country. In addition to unemployment, applications for the unemployment fund are increasing. The number of people under unemployment insurance in Turkey is now over 12 million in the year 2000 when bonus cuts began. As part of the application, 2.7 million people have been paid 5 billion and 249 million dollars so far. According to the unemployment benefit, nearly 70 billion euros have been saved so far, 6 per cent of it has been paid to the unemployed. With the number of unemployed in our country, funding has been constantly increasing. Despite all of this, as it turns out, very few parts of the unemployment fund are used for unemployed citizens. Most of the money in the unemployment fund is used elsewhere by the government. The government's policies, unfortunately, have gradually begun to eliminate trade union opportunities in our country. Mr. President, good lawmakers, one of the problems of our country is business accidents. As in the world, business accidents and occupational illness are an important problem to avoid in our country. Despite the growing industrialisation of our country every day, the necessary arrangements and investments in business health and job security have not been done enough, which has caused our country to take part in the 1st - regretfully speaking -- in Europe's mortal business accidents. In our country, there are 1 work accident every 6 minutes and 1 worker's death every 6 hours, and business accidents occur; it is never, never, ever acceptable, and it clearly reveals the state of security. According to reports made by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, 172 people are in an average business accident every day. On average, three people have lost their lives in accidents, and five workers have been injured. Another of the major problems of working life - most important - is the problems of subcontractors. Again, according to the Ministry of Labour and Social Security data, Turkey has been transformed into a labor paradise, and these are subcontractors. In order to reduce the cost of public service, subcontractorisation, which was initially launched in local governments, has been widely implemented in virtually every area in our country. After local governments, hospitals, universities and public institutions are at the top of the areas where subcontractorisation is common. In these public institutions and institutions, cleaning, security and office services are provided by subcontractors. The size of subcontractorization with security and cleaning services is increasing day by day. The services of doctors, nurses, midwifes, health workers are now provided in hospitals through the service of food and transportation services at other public institutions. The subcontractors, who are deprived of social rights, have no future and are sentenced to work without a union, expect new laws from the government, especially from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In this last bag of legislation, some regulations have been made regarding subcontractor services, but it is not enough; there are no laws in Turkey that will please, please the working subcontractors, comfort business security, and occupational health. About 586 thousand employees work as subcontractors in the public sector and 419,000 in the private sector. The most common sectors of subcontractor work are cleaning with 417,000 people and building with 318,000 people. The number of sub-employees in Turkey increased to 586000 employees in public and a total of 1.5 million in private sectors. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are higher education institutions with 36 per cent of the public institutions, 14 per cent of the municipality, and 4 per cent. According to these figures in Turkey, one of every 10 workers works as subcontractors, and this practice is increasing day by day. The government has made subcontractors almost necessary. In our country, subcontractors who are employed in almost every service are in great distress. First of all, subcontractors who work without a union are always concerned about being laid off. These workers have a very long working period, and they do a lot of work in institutions for very little money. They are also having a hard time with the yearly leave and the day off. They also have problems with seniority and reporting compensation. The working hours of subcontractors also depend on annual tenders. Unfortunately, when companies lose the tender, the contractors are outside the door; new contractors' names are starting a new business. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, there are huge differences between workers working for the Ministry of Labor and subcontractors as well as their wages and working conditions. Our wish as the National Movement Party Group is that all of our subcontractors, all of them, be put on the state staff, and that the state has established laws, regulations, to maintain their working lives. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, along with growing subcontractors in our country, are unfortunately increasing the number of people under the poverty and poverty line and falling under the burden of living. A family of four in Turkey must consume food costs $1,158, the hunger limit is 3.772 euros, which is what it has to spend to make a living under minimum conditions. The subcontractors only get $850. Are these workers below or above the age of starvation, with which they are paid, or are they paid just enough for the bread? According to the explained numbers of hunger and poverty, the majority of subcontractors are condemned to live below the limits of hunger and poverty. For these reasons, we think it would be wise as the National Movement Party Group to carry out its role in our great Parliament, to establish a research commission in parliament to address the problems of subcontractors as soon as possible, to look into the problems of subcontractors working as subcontractors and take the necessary measures. On this occasion, the group would like to accept our proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0071par0033	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Mr. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group... no. İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0072par0038	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Movement Party's motion to investigate the problems of subcontractors and determine the measures needed to be taken. I salute the General Assembly. Precious lawmakers have led to the emergence and spread of fast technological development and expertise in working life in the world and in our country, leading to increasing international competition sub-employment practices. The first legal regulation of our sub-employment legislation was made in 1936 by Law 3008. Later, our country approved Law 161 in 14/12/1960, the 94th Convention of the International Labour Organization, which allowed the public to give their jobs to the sub-employee and set the conditions for them. Today, when we look at the regulations related to the subcontractor system, the basic framework for providing services for the public sector is the Public Relations Act 4/1/2002. I mean, the basic framework for how the system works in public is the Law 4734. Later, various legal arrangements for relationships between the sub-employee and the main employer were also made. He has just stated that there are around 660,000 sub-employees working in the public, and in private, around 570,000; they total up to 1,200,000. Dear lawmakers, the solution of the problems of sub-employees with the understanding of all sides is the basic wish of all lawmakers in this parliament, our wish and our wish for power as well. The Trilateral Advisory Board has been established in our Labour and Social Security Minister's Office for the purpose of investigating and working on the problems of sub-employment, and MPs of the parties whose group is in parliament have joined here, representatives of the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges have joined here, representatives of workers and employers' confederations have joined. The issues related to this subcontractor system have been discussed and discussed with these meetings. See, valuable lawmakers may be related to sub-employment, of course, different problems, but the main issues that arise are one, severance pay; two, year-long vacations are coming; and there is also the issue of depositing wages in full and on time. Although there is no legal obstacle to the union's accession of subcontractors, it is clear that there are problems with collective employment contracts due to the short term of their work. After the agenda, we're going to start negotiating the bag of law on the agenda of the General Assembly, and we've made arrangements in this bag of laws about subcontractors, some steps have been taken to resolve the problems. I'd like to tell you about them, and I'd like to share with you from here what they bring to sub-employee workers or to sub-contractor workers. See, valued lawmakers, our current regulations have no responsibility except for some areas relating to whether the original employer's sub-employee sub-contractor's fee is paid. In addition to our arrangement, if the Supreme Assembly agrees and becomes lawless, the main employer will now be held responsible for whether employees working at the sub-employee have invested their wages in full and time, without looking for a private-public distinction. If a subcontractor's salary is not paid, it is brought by the original employer to arrange the deposit of that worker to his bank account. Again, valuable lawmakers, think of an institution where a sub-employee is working, and let's say that this works for two years, three years, but the sub-contractor is changing every year; for years that changed, this contractor's annual leave of absence was, unfortunately, without a year's leave. Now, if this worker continues to work for the company despite the change of subcontractors, the annual leave of absence will no longer be lost, and the employee will be granted the employee's annual furlough by the original employer. Again, valuable lawmakers, with this arrangement, the administration is directly responsible for severance and the deposit of severance benefits to employees' bank account. Another arrangement brought with this proposal is a matter of assistance to the under-employee, valued lawmakers. So, what jobs are helpful; a procedure related to the determination of this will then be followed: it is intended to be achieved, with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers, with the opinion of employee, employer, officer confederations. Again, valuable lawmakers, according to the administration's interest in service purchases, it is the basis for getting permission from the Ministry of Finance, the Undersecretary of Treasury or the President of the Privatisation Administration. The public official, who tenders without permission, whose workers are out of contract and who operates against the Employment Act, is being brought in for damages and administrative fines. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, here, you know, the tender for continuous work was held once a year, and now, these three years are now being extended, so the ongoing work will be done as of three years ago. This will bring a serious relief in the annual salary and severance pay, which I have just expressed. Because after a year, the sub-employee who works there will both earn severance and earn a year's paid leave. In addition to the arrangement, the employer was given a responsibility to use them and follow them. I also want to make a point: really, business accidents happen in our country, they happen in our country, and it hurts us deeply, deeply. A step has been taken in recent years, and a study on occupational health and safety has been introduced, a legal arrangement. I hope this new arrangement will minimise these business accidents along with its practices. Dear lawmakers, look, I also want to express something here: the improvement of the wages of workers or workers who work for sub-employees at minimum wage, I really hope that if our country's economy reaches better conditions, there will be improvements at these points, improvements. In 2002, the minimum wage was 184 TL. Today, with an increase of 146 per cent, which is 146 per cent, with an increase of 146 per cent, and 846 TL, the real increase here is 146 per cent. This is a improvement for both subcontractors and an arrangement for our private sector workers working outside of subcontractors. The heart wants it, so it goes higher. Look, the other thing I'd like to point out is that in 2001, the share of the total staff costs in the budget is 16 percent; today, in the 2014 budget, that amount has increased by 30 percent, so the share of the staff costs has increased by about twice as much. During the same period, Turkey increased its budget by four times during this 12-year period. This shows that the increasing public service is mainly done by public personnel. The budget is both four times higher and the public staff costs are doubling. Then it is clear here that the government has a choice of public service through public staff. That's right, there are about 500-600,000 subcontractors in the public right now, but if that didn't happen, maybe Turkey would be facing a painting that doubled, tripled, today. As I end my words with these feelings and thoughts, I say we will vote against the motion as the EC PARTY Group, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0073par0055	Thank you, Mr. Mush. In favour of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi, please come in.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0074par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party in favour of a motion to investigate subcontractor applications. I salute the High Council with love. Dear friends, we're actually talking about something very important. Speaking on behalf of the AKP Group just now, our friend has expressed from this platform how important the legislation is. They're doing a good job with this perception management, so I'm congratulating him. The most successful part of the AKP is that they do good in perception management, and they give good news to all the workers, to all the workers, and to all the workers, that the subcontractorship is being lifted. They've been waxed by all those advocacy media groups and put them in front of the public. Now, for the first time, three confederations have been meeting with the Prime Minister for a long time, and they cried out, "Oh, we don't want any good, let this law remain as it was. TÜRK-HİSK, DİSK, HAK-İSK, İK-İSK, at least don't make the body worse, it's making the body worse, so let's keep it that way. In the old arrangement, at least when there was a loss of rights, there was a problem with judgment. Although these ruling decisions are determined not to apply, we see that. Now, an example of this practice, an example of this legal arrangement, comes from here. We're talking about a package brought in not to enforce the law, not to enforce the court's decisions, not to enforce the Supreme Court's decisions. Because the Supreme Court has made a decision by our YOL-HIS union regarding the Highways; the local court has said that the main staff of subcontractors is on the Highways in this case; the local court has approved the Supreme Court's decision, but this government has not implemented the Supreme Court's decision for exactly two years, dear friends. Can you imagine, I mean, if a government hasn't carried out the decision made by the judiciary for two years... then again, in many universities, if a government doesn't make the decision on subcontractorial practices at a number of universities, then Turkey faces a government that doesn't enforce the decisions of the judiciary, which guides its unlawfulness? In this sense, a government that enforces lawlessness, injustice is now in a new maneuver with the new law. My dear friends, this arrangement... as your friend just expressed on behalf of the AKP Group, are the numbers around 1,200,000, in the private sector, around 570,000, in public? No, it's not like that. There are 11 million unregistered employees behind this painting, and a large portion of 11 million off-the-book employees, especially in the private sector, are employed in subcontractors. This number is around 2 million, according to our findings. Now, the minimum wage has been consistently increased. Large increases in minimum wage, and these subcontractors are said to have increased their wages by 146 per cent, and the minimum wage is praised. Guys, there's such a thing as a conscience. This minimum wage is, after all, below the age of starvation. I mean, what are we talking about? According to the figures of TÜİKbook, the hunger limit, which is $1.089... let alone the poverty limit, the poverty limit is far above that. Our friend from the MHP just told me, 3,000-plus-dollar poverty limit -- I'm talking about the poverty limit -- according to the numbers of the hunger limit of $1.089 lira TİK. How much is the minimum wage? 890 liras. So, how many hours do these subcontractors work? A large number of them do not work within legal limits; 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 hours, and are boasted of. Now, look, I went to Eskişehir City Hall last time. One MP, Kazim Kurt, who was among us, became our friend, the mayor of Woodpazari, said: "For a subcontractor, the money that comes out of my pocket -- $2047 -- but the money that goes into the employee's pocket is 840 lira." Unlike you guys: You want to give the difference to the contractors, we want to give the difference to the workers. (CHEERING) Our differences are these dear friends. You want to make someone rich, we're offering a model where the hiring power of workers improves a little bit. The model is: So, if this money is distributed to all the workers -- if this money is distributed to the millions of workers we're talking about -- instead of a few subcontractors, instead of enriching a few subcontractors, their buying power will increase, and they will actually contribute to Turkey's economy in a different way. So, my dear friends, we're all seeing that the process, which has been launched with the latest subcontractor practice that is happening in Soma (Soma), is going on now, and the latest application of these has appeared in Balıkesir Ivrindi (Ivrindi), and two of our friends have died there last week. Again, there are those who die at Oliveburn, who die at the bottom of the stairs, and there are those who die in unsanitary conditions, and there are those who die at work without guarantees, and so is Denizli. Now, dear friends, instead of fixing the business, you're going to an application to protect the existing system. That's why I want to make an assessment: this is a subcontractorial exploitation system, which requires the immediate removal of Turkey's exploitation system. The subcontractor is a system that destroys unionisation, organizes, condemns the labourer to work flexiblely and uncompromisingly, which needs to be corrected. The subcontractor is the cause of their labor deaths, and we've seen that in many cases now. It is the cause of the deaths of hundreds of workers who died in sub-strength workshops, in Soma, in constructions, in sub-strength workshops. The subcontractor is an insurmountable system of cruelty, where subcontractors, rights, rights, labor is sold for money. The subcontract means "stop" to the system of exploitation and persecution. So, in many areas here today, most of the applications of subcontractors, which you specifically describe as the construction industry, are in health care. Now, many companies that have emerged as a construction industry also sell services in health care. One minute, the company is a builder, but most of them are working as nurses, as technicians, and in very different applications, there are thousands of workers that are employed in that area and run under that name in different sectors, and these workers are unsecured. Right now, because they're unionists, they're resisting at Okmeydanı Hospital because they belong to the Revolutionary Health Workers' Union. The day the subcontractors join the union, their right to work is as sacred as their right to live. It's a system where organized society is destroyed. The main reason you want to continue this system is this: AKP power feeds on it. The AKP's government specifically wants this subcontractor to spread because it doesn't want them to be organized to dominate its own political structure there, to make those workers guided. The reason this subcontractor system is so persistently standing behind it, is because it's the purpose of enriching those contractors. So I wish for this system to be resolved immediately. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0075par0072	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. Mr. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0076par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we will change this Civil Code by Allah's permission. We don't have to talk about it in favor of a research proposal or against it, we need to talk about it, over it. Look, as the People's Democratic Party, we seem to have submitted a motion to investigate the same issue of subcontractors. Then we offered him the law, and we argued about it over and over again, and we had a 47-day argument in the bag of law. The bag is a subcontractor law that the three union federation -- three union federation -- agreed on and left the Tabheron system in its old form. On 12 April 2013, a revised solution proposed by labour organisations to the employee and employer confederates of the relevant ministry's trilateral advisory board was not an issue that could convince labour organisations. At the point where the Ministry of Labour and Social Security has not already been subject to problems, practices, judicial decisions, and business law, or has been manipulated consciously, there has been serious blood in the workers. Now, what we're looking at here is really the purchase of public services... why does the state start sub-employees in education, local governments, health, court, many institutions, sub-employees? An employer gives it to a sub-employee according to a contract with the public institution, and all of these people's rights are being victimised. By God, there's also a subcontractorial law in the House, my friends, which I think you're aware of, and I think Mr. Tanal has said a lot about it, and he's given me a lot of questions. You subcontracted the coven, folks, that's all we need. I mean, there are so many casts in Congress that I've graduated from college, mastered, became a congressman in 2007, and I'm here, and they're still working at the teahouse in this House, my friends. However, subcontractors are made to increase the production of jobs, jobs that require expertise, technical jobs, outside jobs. In Turkey, it's the opposite, it's made to exploit, it's done to avoid severance pay, it's done to avoid paying overtime work fees, it's done to avoid holidays. And when the court has reached its verdict, how can I not enforce the court's decision and put it in the bag of law? It is based on the majority of votes that comes to power, and unfortunately we will discuss this in the bag of law that we will discuss this evening. Friends, 2,700,000 is an official number in the public sector. This work in the public sector is unfortunately institutionalized in the bag of law, I say. Think of it this way: they're publicizing the subcontractor's law, through the pain of Soma workers. Then they come and say: "We've met with a lot of NGOs, we've met with experts, we've made a wonderful law. We asked, there were three union confederations in the Commission, the HAK-İSK, DÜSK, TÜRK-H, you know?" They said, "We've heard about it when it was announced on Friday." What kind of government, what kind of Parliament, what kind of law enforcement and working order? It's terrifying. See, in this bag of legislation, the public, the subcontractors, the public, the subcontractors, the public, the public, in fact the workers' expectations of staff and job guarantees, the cheap labor exploitation, the name of slave labor in contrast to the court decisions earned by workers and trade unions so far, has been popularized. In many articles of Job Act 4857 and Public Contraction Act 4734, subcontractor work has been made permanent. An arrangement aimed at providing sub-employment to the sub-employee on the grounds that the actual work being conducted in public institutions is not qualified and adequate has made sub-employment widespread in the public. Hundreds of thousands of subcontractors in roads, municipalities, hospitals, public institutions have been fighting for years to promote wages, severance pay, annual leave, overtime, union organisation rights, litigation, lawsuits against rights violations, in favour of workers, and not even judicial decisions on their rights are carried out by the public administration. Although workers have collected signatures to stop working on subcontractors, to improve employment conditions, to ensure occupational health and occupational safety measures, the government has urged the parliament, the ministry, and the implementation of judicial decisions, in violation of judicial regulations using its law enforcement power. Tonight, an example of this insistence... if the AK PARTY motion passes, we'll discuss it for two weeks, friends. Since public institutions, hospitals, universities, municipalities, roads, all institutions will hire sub-employees and exploit workers and destroy their union rights, does your conscience allow it? There are 1,80,000 union workers now, friends. We're talking 2014. There were more unions before September 12th. The number of workers who now have a collective contract is 600 thousand friends, 600 thousand, over 10 million insured in our country. Do not seek prosperity in this country's future, do not seek peace, do not seek happiness when you exploit these rights, the rights of the worker, the sweat, the labor, the minimum wage, when 20 million people are below the age of hunger. If there are a handful of rich people in one percent and 90 percent poor people in the 90 percent, when the cliff separates, there is no secular order in that country, my friends. Therefore, we believe that a study on subcontractorization is right, that research is done, that we support as the People's Democratic Party, that it will be good for Turkey. At least in such matters, I think the four groups of the House should agree. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0077par0084	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I'd like to submit the National Movement Group's proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0078par0086	President, we're in the majority today, it has to be accepted!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0077par0087	The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Tuesday (15/7/2014), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. A parliamentary research proposal issued by Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba and 23 lawmakers on 21/5/2014 to determine "the measures to be taken by investigating the damage caused by the frost disaster of the apricot manufacturers in Malatya" (1361 row no. lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the General Assembly's information, and to be read during the 15/7/2014-day jointly, and to be held in the same dated combination of their talks. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group proposal, Congressman Veli Ağbaba of Malatya. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You used to bring apricots to the stand like this.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0079par0101	Now we don't, now we don't, unfortunately, it's burned, I don't, I wish we could bring the apricot.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0080par0102	The AKP also finished the apricot!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0079par0103	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today, we bring up our motion to investigate the damage caused by the frost disaster on March 30th. Dear friends, I have repeatedly brought up the disaster that took place on March 30th that affected Malatya all of it. I've called a press conference to explain the seriousness of the situation, the seriousness of it. At the press conference, I showed the burning branch of Malatiah, and the burning era to all the public. Dear friends, ever since then, the disaster of Malatya has been brought to light on the assembly stand. On March 30, April 8th, April 23rd, on May 21st, June 11th, when farmers' debts were expunged, delayed, and Malatya had been declared a disaster zone, we repeatedly shouted here. Everyone has heard of this disaster in Malatya, and in the region, and I think there are no more MPs left in this parliament. The papers wrote, the TVs did the news. Trade chambers, NGOs, all organizations in Malatya have expressed their reaction, their desire. Everyone heard it, all the political parties heard it, thank God, the MPs heard it, and they came to me, and they didn't hear it, and the government didn't hear it, I'm afraid, dear friends. Three days after March 30th, Minister of Agriculture came to Malatya, where the disaster took place, did inspections, posed in front of burning trees, and welcomed the bureaucrat, Mr. Minister, with the fine hospitality of Malatya. And he said, "I will go, and I will bring it to the government's agenda. And unfortunately, nothing happened -- and with our efforts -- as if it were a huge thing -- only debts to the Bank of Agriculture have been postponed. So he came to Malatiah, and ate, and drank, and waved, and left. Dear friends, last week the same Minister was in Malatya again. We've postponed the loans to a journalist who says, "What about the manufacturer?" he said. As if delaying debts with interest was a great feat, as if the government had donated ties to Malatians, as if only the debt to the state had been delayed and all the problems had been resolved, the Minister said so. Dear friends, I'm sorry, but you don't do Malatian favors just by delaying debts. Look, I want to give you an example of the seriousness of the situation: there's a heavy patient in the house, and he needs surgery. If the operation is not performed, the patient will die, but the AKP government says: "Let's give the patient aspirin and the pain will stop." Our situation is no different than that, it's worse than I told you. Come and see Malatya, my friends.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0081par0109	It's the same with the scholarship.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0079par0110	No one's asking. No servant of God ever asks how we're going to pay for watering. No one's asking the trees how we're gonna get the fertilizer, the medicine. No one's asking us how to put the diesel in our tractor. Dear friends, I'd like to address those who have a conscience once again from here. The Malatian may have suffered the biggest disaster of the last hundred years, but I'm telling you, we've had the biggest disaster of the last hundred years this year on March 28, 29, 30. Everything he planted burned, everything he planted, burned. Dear friends, there is not a single cherry left in the Green Yurt, where Turkey's most beautiful cherries are produced and exported. Last week I went to Gündüzbey, and there are not a kilo of cherries in the greengrocers, and in the trees there. Again, the town of Doğanşehir, where the most beautiful apple of the region is raised, is crying blood. My dear friends, the physician, whose name is identified with walnuts, who has no income but walnuts, thinks of what to do. And all the things of Malatiah were burned: and their plums, and their pomegranates, and their diamonds, and their pears, and their peaches were burned. Dear friends, it's burned with fruit branches, a branch tree, and we don't have a record this year that directly concerns every Malatian, manufacturer, producer, worker, employee, businessman, and worker's workers who live in Malatya. I've said it a hundred times on this stand, and once again I find it useful to say: Apricot is the student's pen, his book; the dowry of our daughter who wants to get married is the brick for the one who wants to build a house; it's food for our children, milk for the old man; unfortunately it's the shroud money for the old man. I mean, apricots, basically, are life for us. If the apricot burns for us, life burns, hope burns, our future burns. Dear friends, this year, unfortunately, nearly 100 percent of our apricots have been burned. The Malatian manufacturer couldn't afford to buy medicine to keep his trees alive, to pay off the electricity debt so he could water them. Dear friends, the apricot doesn't look like any other tree, so whether it holds or doesn't, you have to do the same work on the tree, you have to do the same, so you have to do the same, whether it's apricot or not, you're going to spray it, you're going to spray it, you're going to spray it, you're going to water it, you're going to water it, you're going to take care it. You have to take care of a child as well as a apricot tree. I mean, it's hard, it's bad. The government wants producers to insure their products to TARSIM, in order to compensate for the damage caused by the frost and hail. So he transfers it to TARSIM, says, "If TARSIM solves it, let him solve it." But unfortunately, my friends, the terms of TARSIM (TARSIM) don't fit the Malatians; the height of their bonuses, the disputes in damage detection, the experiences he had in the past, and the disappointment maker, the apricot producer, are missing from TARSIM. We can see this escape clearly when we look at the TARSIM insurance rates in 2014. Dear friends, I also want to point out that there's an imbalance here, it's about TARSIM. In Malatya, you pay $13,000 to TARSIM ($100,000) for an apricot in Malatya, for another product in another region -- in another area outside Malatya -- you pay $7,000 for a product worth 100,000. I mean, the difference between us and another region is two stories, and unfortunately, we can't announce it to TARSIM, nor can we announce it to the government. I mean, the TARSIM isn't enough to heal our wounds, guys. Dear friends, TARSIM doesn't heal our wounds, the government plays the blind, the deaf. The ruling representatives are dry. There's only one thing they're interested in, and unfortunately, your only picker is the tall guy. How the tall man succeeds, you only care about him, you don't care about the Malatian. Your salt is dry because you haven't seen hunger, absence in your lifetime, you haven't taken a dollar shoe from the market in your life, your salt is dry. You only have one picker, that's all you care about. Dear friends, look, you're saying that from here, I'm telling the Malatians, I'm reproaching the Malatians, I'm reproaching them. The Malatians are voting for us, whether we serve or not. Unfortunately, the Malatians vote even though you don't, which is my motto for the Malatians. No matter where we lay our hands, no matter where we lay our hands, the Malatian bleeds. Dear friends, it's not just fruit, it's dry agriculture, it's wheat, it's barley, it's burnt, unfortunately, we don't have a single crop. Electricity is a disaster, I'm not talking about watering it. Don't water it, it's something everyone should be ashamed of, who says, "I'm a human being." I say here that sometimes, by breaking the sewer pipes to the Malatian, you water the apricots, the agricultural products. Battalgazi Mayor, officials confirm that this is the case, the governor confirms it, but only our government, our government, our deputies, unfortunately, thinks differently of me. The irrigation problem is a disgrace. Malatiah is crying blood all over the land. Electricity is something else. Dear friends, I'm getting a phone call from Malatya, and they say: "You've put off this year's electricity debt at least until next year. " Unfortunately, there's no one here to hear it but us. I'm afraid no one's doing anything about it. Dear friends, look, there was a disaster in Malatya in 2010. May God have mercy on Mevlüt Aslanoglu, then our losses have been compensated, even though our losses were 60 per cent. Then the damage was 60 percent, and $90 million was paid. And this year, we don't really want anything too big, guys, we don't want much. If you give money to Malatya for 200 million liras, the problem will be solved. Don't say no, because you all know this is happening. Only 20 percent of what you give to the pool media is only 20 percent of the money you transfer to the pool media. We ask you, dear friends, to make a call from here to the ruling party, especially to Malatya MPs: Come, let's all say yes. Let's change Malatya's fate together; I say we all change our fate by hand, by arm and arm. I expect you to vote yes to our motion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0082par0130	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Congressman Omar Faruk Öz. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0083par0134	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the motion to open a parliamentary investigation to determine the cost of the apricot manufacturers in Malatya, in order to determine the measures needed to be taken by investigating the frost disaster. I hereby salute your high council. Malatya provides about 85 per cent of the world's dry apricot production. We have around 8 million apricot trees, and very few of these apricots are consumed as age in the domestic market, and the rest are exported to the world for dry apricot consumption. Apricots are indispensable to Malatya. It's not only limited to the livelihood of over 50,000 farmers, it's one-on-one with the quality of life for all the tradesmen, officers, and all the people in our region. Apricots, agriculture, we've done a lot of things that need to be done, from the day we came in as AK PARTY power. Everyone should know that there's always been a disaster, a risk, both in agriculture, agriculture, fruit and vegetables. So at the point where our farmers working on agricultural products have to make different alternative agricultural products, at the point of support, our government, our Department of Agriculture, has projects. And these, hopefully, will come in time. During the past 28, 29, 30 March, there have been frost disasters in many parts of Turkey. In both Malatya and Malatya, some of the apricot trees were damaged by 90 percent of the fruit, 95 percent of the population. As part of this disaster, our agricultural district managers, our Agricultural County Directorate have made the necessary investigations, assessments. In addition, the damage assessments of our farmers -- also related to the agricultural insurance policy -- were made by agricultural experts. Respected MPs, another frost disaster occurred in 2010. There was the AK PARTY government again in the Don disaster, and there was our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan again. By order of our Prime Minister, then our farmers were paid 94 million liras. Here's the EC PARTY government, lawmakers of the government, if they want power, they'll be paid a fee, not paid by the opposition. But when you say "opposition," you can't miss Mevlüt Aslanoglu with mercy and gratitude. The late Mevlüt Aslanoglu was indeed a member of the parliament, with his constructive opposition to this Parliament, with his objective criteria, with each of us, and with the members of our government, a separate seat. On this occasion -- in the circumstances of that day, of course, he has expressed these problems -- today, I also bless him with mercy and gratitude, and I wish him a paradise. Indeed, I personally feel the emptiness of Mevlüt Aslanoglu, as an AK PARTY MP. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Now, the application of agricultural insurance first came during the EC PARTY government in 2006, and the state covers about 50 per cent of agricultural insurance, up to 67 per cent of some insurance types. So the price of the policy is 100 liras, the state pays 67 lira for it, and the state pays 50 per cent for it. Now, this insurance was especially implemented after the frost disaster in Malatya. Now, unfortunately, our farmers are not very keen on getting insurance. If our farmers have 10 fields, they make 2 or 3 fields that are risky, their other fields, which, unfortunately, we're not in the habit of getting farm insurance. We must make sure that even if the number of policies goes up, the insurance policy costs automatically fall down. So today, the money our farmer paid for this year's insurance policies is around $20 million, and in return, TARSIM will pay around $78 million. Now, it's possible to take that number down, maybe 20 million more than the farmer paid. And that's going to be because our farmers' policy-making habits are increasing, and again, there are cuts in policy prices for our insurance-making farmers, and those cuts must be brought down. That's right, when the number of policies goes up, it automatically reduces joint cuts and exemptions, but at this point, policy prices are high because the number of policies is low. Dear MPs, of course, here, in 2010, there was only some damage to Malatya, and that was met by our government, but now we see the same damage in many provinces of our country; we see the same damage in both grapes and tea and nuts and many agricultural products. Again, we see that there are some defects, especially in the grains, caused by the drought. So this year's disaster is high. For this reason, we would love to see our farmers suffer a certain amount of damage to their heads and trees, just as it did in 2010, but that's what we're asking. Because why? The next year, our farmer needs to water these apricots so he can get apricots from his apricot garden. The electricity he used in the irrigation needs to be paid for. This must be taken into account. Another issue: For our farmers to make sure that insurance habits are spread, at least in the following year, during the year 2014-2015, we also need a certain resource for our farmers to get a policy. I have submitted this to our Minister of Agriculture. And here's the thing: I believe there must be a study on agricultural insurance, at least 50 per cent and 67 per cent, at least now, at the moment, at the point of whether it's possible for all of our apricot producers who have insurance policies to be paid by the Treasury, to be covered by the treasury. Because our farmers, the Malatian apricot farmer, are really having a hard time getting an apricot manufacturer policy this year. And I believe there must be some study to be done about it. And we have an average of 35 to 40,000 farmers registered in the Farmer's Recording System, but he's got around 15,000 policies. This is also the case: The year when the farmers are not usually damaged, after all, this year has not been damaged, nor the next year. They do not make a policy in their mind. I certainly believe that we should do a study on how our farmers, at the point of policymaking, will be paid by the treasure this year, at least 50 per cent and 67 per cent of it, to be met by the Treasury for a year. Other than that, it has been possible for our farmers, again, to postpone their debt to the Agriculture Bank and Agriculture Loan Co-operatives, by the decision of the Council of Ministers. It is our hope that, God willing, our farmers will never face such damage again. But once for the Malatian farmer... maybe this can be taken from the Council of Ministers and arranged by law. Because every year when there's a Council of Ministers, it's like this. After all, when there's damage, our government pays for it. So why should we get agricultural insurance? If this is agricultural insurance, if TARSIM is set up, it has to survive. But what happens when the treasure pays for every damage? After all, the government pays for the damage, the treasure, and why should we get insurance? So, for once, maybe there's the idea that with the law -- if the board of ministers is comfortable -- that our farmers should be supported in a certain amount of support for this year, and even if that doesn't happen -- we follow specifically, demand -- then we demand that the insurance costs be paid by the treasury. Let's just say that it's pretty obvious where we come from in agriculture. There was no agricultural insurance in the past, and now the AK PARTY government arrived on time. There have been cases of frosting, which were first paid by the AK PARTY government in 2010. Therefore, it is inappropriate to say that the EC PARTY and our Prime Minister are indifferent to our farmers. I salute your high council with these thoughts and feelings.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0084par0150	Thank you, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0085par0151	I want word on the 60th article.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0084par0152	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0085par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. I just got a call from two members of the Army and Giresun on the phone, and he said: "There's a speech in Malatya about his brother-in-law's underwear, but it's also in this nut. They're forgetting about us. I already said that your citizen, the Prime Minister, should think about you as much as he wants, but you vote for him. And, Mr. President, this year, of course, there were no apricots, no nuts. For example, in our country, there were berries in the Chetezkek and Pertek. It was an important source of income, and he dried up, and he got frosted. He hit the walnut. I think this motion for research, if it's to be accepted, includes the damage to the nuts, the damage to the berries, the damage to the walnuts.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0086par0158	Wheat, olives...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0085par0159	This must be covered by those who suffer from the disaster caused by wheat, or all agricultural products. Thank you for your promise, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0087par0161	Thank you. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr. Recep is a member of the Isparta Special. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0088par0168	It's in your favor, isn't it?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0087par0169	On the side, on the side. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0089par0171	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. The problem with the Apricot of Malatya, given by the Malatya MP, is not only in Malatya. In many different cities in Turkey, especially this year, there has been a frosting incident in these hard core fruits. In this regard, by our government, there has been a delay of debts by the Ministry. Of course, it's nice to be in favor of every motion given, to agree, to set up a commission, but if we do everything we're told here, we won't be able to have enough parliamentary numbers, we won't have friends working on the commissions.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0090par0174	He's hungry, he's hungry! He can't afford to live in his house, you say it's not enough.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0089par0175	We're in favor of something like this. Our farmers need to be with you in this difficult situation.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0090par0176	Say "Yes." Say "Yes."
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0089par0177	But today, our House will make an effort to address these kinds of problems in the bag of law, the problems in different areas of our country.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0090par0178	Yes or no?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0089par0179	Therefore, my commitment to the establishment of the commission is only a wish.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0090par0180	Yes or no?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0089par0181	And hopefully in the voting, it'll be different, different products of our country, products of every division.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0090par0182	Let's set it all up.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0089par0183	As our government is working, the EC PARTY says there is no need to set up a commission because the government is working sincerely under the issues, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0091par0185	Mr. Ramazan Can is a member of the Kurıkkale MP against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0092par0188	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. As you know, in apricots, teas, nuts, fruits that grow in our country's various provinces...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0093par0190	Cherry, cherry...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0092par0191	...especially in Isparta. This case of frosts did not just shoot the apricot, just Malatya. Of course, apricot is a very important product for Malatya, and tea is an important product for Rize, and nuts are an important product for Giresun and the Army. Mr. Süzeyya Sadi is looking, and for Isparta, you know, cherry is an important product. Unfortunately, as of this period of time, when we were in the tree, because of the unflowered frost incident, our farmers couldn't benefit from agricultural insurance. What happened in the flower was part of the agricultural insurance policy. In that sense, as our government and our party, the fact that farmers were informed in agriculture and agriculture revealed how important agricultural insurance is. Not only in fruit, but also in grain -- especially in my hometown, Kırıkkale, Kırkşehir, Ionya, Central Anatolia, and Inner Anatolia -- was also severely lost in the drought. These recollateral losses, of course, have the size of watery agriculture, the size of farmers, and the size of farmers -- as I've just said -- agriculture insurance. So we're following all of these problems as governments and as our party. The agenda is very busy, and our Malatya MP, Omar Faruk Öz, who is speaking here, has given the information technically. Again, the apricot was on the agenda last week. I hope it's in the best interest of the Parliament's General Assembly to assess this event at a proper time, not only with the apricot size, but also with the size of the grain and the size of the drought. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As a result, Bill 639 has arrived on the agenda of Parliament. It was discussed, discussed, discussed on the Commission's agenda for about a month. Hopefully, we'll spend the law here before the Festival of Ramadan, and the public...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0094par0196	That's a bit difficult.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0092par0197	It's a bit difficult. The opposition party says, but the public is looking forward to it. I hope we can bring them here as a gift from the Festival of Ramadan, and make them a law. In these feelings, I express my opposition to the group's proposal, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0095par0200	I will submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes, and I will look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Tuesday (15/07/2014), I request that the following proposal be submitted to the General Assembly's approval under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President In the absence of forty-eight hours of the Law Bill 639, which has been distributed, the agenda is to take the rankings 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the other tasks in the order of the "Obeyances and Other Affairs From the Commissions" in order of the article, as well as 605, 628, 547, 145 and 599. In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Charter of 639 rows, it is considered the basic law and its sections in the accompanying form; It's recommended.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0096par0213	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0095par0214	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0096par0215	Mr. President, there are two bases missing from this proposal. First: Turkey does not discuss the Parliamentary General Assembly bill in the Grand National Assembly, it discusss commission reports. Therefore, there is no law bill 639 rows. So, since there's no such bill of law -- you have to have a report once -- he doesn't want the report discussed here. So that's the first flaw, it can't be processed. Secondly, Mr. President, if the Grand National Assembly of Turkey... we have Plan 639 and Budget Commission Report. The issues included in this Plan and Budget Commission report were actually returned to the commission with the report and text file on the subject, since they were subject to issues that were not proposed under the Civil Code. Thus, it is not possible that this report sent back to the commission by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would be sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey without the commission's will and a decision on this matter. In this regard, it is not possible for this AKP Group proposal to be processed due to these shortcomings, so it is not an issue to discuss. In that respect, it is not the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to discuss and make decisions about something that is not relevant.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0095par0217	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0097par0218	Mr. President, sir, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey probably exists to be obeyed, not to be broken, but the Speaker of Parliament, who interprets this House of Parliament as a text of rules that should be obeyed, not as a text of rules that should be obeyed, but as a text of rules that should be broken. What's the Speaker and the President for? This is for the implementation of the Civil Code in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, whether it's in the commission's work, whether it's in the General Assembly's work, whether it's in the General Assembly's right. If the Speaker of Parliament can't provide that, then it's important to assume that the Parliamentary Assembly has failed to carry out its duties. Now, on July 14, 2014, Parliament Speaker is writing a paper to the chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission yesterday, saying that, according to Article 35 of the Civil Charter, commissions cannot deal with anything other than the work referred to to them. Even so, the Plan and Budget Commission has made many amendments against this clause. A list of this is listed on pages 589 and 590, and it says to the Plan and Budget Commission: "Resolve this attitude." The chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission is writing to the Speaker of Parliament right away yesterday automatically and automatically, "Get a hold of yourself, Parliament Speaker."
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0098par0220	We worked so hard, it's not automatic.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0097par0221	This is under our authority, and what are you involved in? He writes a paper that we can interpret. The Speaker of Parliament also says, "Yes, sir." He sends it to the General Assembly. It's all happening yesterday, but it's all happening yesterday. No information to political party groups, no discussion, the chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission isn't calling in the members of the Commission to make an assessment, what do you say? Let's form the commission's view, and let's answer accordingly... These are written in order. There's probably a phone conversation going on. I'm writing, you give me the answer right now, we'll print it, we'll talk... And the number of rows was printed earlier today, one sampler went to the political party groups in a hurry, because I'm following them, too. I finally got a number of rows in the afternoon. The terms of the 48-hour waiting period of the Civil Charter have already been passed and are now being brought here, so let's meet. Now, I'd like to invite the Speaker to claim his writing. If this Article 35 of the Civil Code prevents these regulations from entering here, the Parliament Speaker must carry out his duties. Otherwise, if not, I interpret the position of the Speaker of Parliament: I have no authority, I am a traffic officer -- I can't say, it's disrespectful to traffic attendants -- because traffic attendants forbid drivers from traffic -- I'm sitting here, I'm just the Speaker on video, I'm not doing anything. I'm going to interpret it. I'd like to invite the Speaker on duty. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0099par0226	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0100par0227	Mr. President, first of all, it's clear what 639 rows of numbers he means, which bill and report he means.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0101par0228	Where?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0100par0229	So, in this proposal of ours, 639 rows of numbers are very clearly defined by the report of the Plan and Budget Commission, depending on the proposed bill and on which it is proposed to be discussed today.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0101par0230	There's no report here, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0102par0231	Not the Plan and Budget Commission, the President's report, we don't know about it, the President's report.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0100par0232	Anyway, I mean, the number of rows of 639 is the key word here, and it's very clear.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0102par0233	The presidency made its own decision.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0103par0234	It's been sent to you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0100par0235	There's no doubt about it, Mr. President, it's one. Secondly, this bill is listed on the Coming Papers list.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0104par0237	It's not a bill, it's not a bill, it's a proposal. Read it and look at it like that.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0100par0238	The bill and the combined proposals. There's a bill, there's a bill coming in, there's joint offers, so it's obvious. So there's no harm in describing it as a bill. Therefore, Mr. President, it has been entered and distributed by our Parliamentary President on the list of Papers that have come in accordance with procedure. Thus, he has reached the stage where he deserves to be interviewed in the General Assembly. Also, about 48 hours, you know, if the General Assembly makes a decision about that, if the General Assembly pushes a decision at the point of forty-eight hours of unexpected negotiations -- there are countless examples, countless times, maybe hundreds of times this application. There are no problems in this regard. As for the other matter, Mr. President, as for the matter referred to in Article 35 of the Civil Code, he has already made the same statement to the Parliamentary Commissions on the same grounds. These views of the Speaker of Parliament are an administrative opinion. The commission's activities are an act of legislation, Mr. President, and it's very important. So, with an administrative or administrative decision, the law can't be changed by the opinion, the law can't be interfered with. Therefore, all of these issues have already been discussed, an opinion has appeared in the Plan Budget Commission and Plan Budget Commission, all of its dimensions, and it has been sent to the Parliamentary Presidency, to be sent to the General Assembly. In the same way, the chairman of the Plan Budget Commission of Plans sent him the article, written by the Parliamentary Presidency -- under executive authority -- which he wrote to the chairman of the Plan Budget Commission. That is because the Commission's opinion on this has already been made clear, the report has come out; the opinion of all political parties, of all members of the Commission has been revealed. Therefore, there is no need for any re-enactment. Again, Mr. President, there are numerous applications.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0105par0244	What do you mean, no? The president wrote it down. The president wrote it, we need to talk about it.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0100par0245	Again, there have been objections here, even the discussion of the procedure has been raised, and eventually this practice has continued. Look...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0106par0247	Now...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0100par0248	I'm ending it, Mr. President. The bill and the combined proposals...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0106par0250	So if you speed it up, I'll invite you in the back -- the group's vice presidents -- after I give you my word.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0107par0251	Sir, their proposal is unprocessable.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0108par0252	He says it's incomplete.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0107par0253	Mr. President, the AKP's proposal cannot be processed because according to Article 52 of the Civil Code, 48 hours...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0109par0254	Let Mr. Canikli finish now, young man.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0107par0255	No, no...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0109par0256	No, let him finish, young man.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0107par0257	...in less than eight hours, the commission and the government offer the meeting, the group cannot offer it, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0109par0258	Let Mr Canikli finish it.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0107par0259	The Civil Code is clear.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0109par0260	Everyone listened to each other.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0107par0261	But I mean, he's always giving false information.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0109par0262	Wrong-right, but let him finish as a result.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0107par0263	But wrong-right... that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0109par0264	All right, let him finish.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0107par0265	The Civil Code has an open sentence.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0109par0266	No, it's here...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0107par0267	Well, I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0110par0268	Sit down!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0107par0269	Come on! Sit down... who the hell are you? You're already doing all kinds of shit here, and then... no shame, no shame!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0111par0270	Look in the mirror and talk.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0107par0271	You'd be embarrassed if you were in your shoes! You sold this country, committed thefts.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0112par0272	Sit down. Don't sit in the wrong seat.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0107par0273	We call you the thief, you come out. You're thieves!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0113par0274	Come on, Bodrum, come on!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0114par0275	Yes, if you finish...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0115par0276	Mr. President, many offers have been made during the meeting of this bill and the joint proposals in the Commission, and, of course, these proposals have been made by our friends who belong to the opposition, including a significant portion of them -- including the laws combined -- in which there are no changes. It's been negotiated, denied, something else. So, our fellow commissioners, including our fellow commissioners, our fellow members of the opposition, have made these proposals with the same logic. They're all examples here, so we'll share them if we have to. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0114par0278	Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0116par0279	Mr. President, now, Mr. Canikli has made a statement, saying that Mr. Speaker's duty here is administrative, that he cannot interfere in the legislature of Parliament. Let's assume this is true for a moment, and I would like to draw attention to the contradiction between the two positions of the General Assembly and another application of the Speaker of Parliament. In connection with the establishment of the parliamentary investigative commission on the four ministers, members of the political party groups have been asked to report their candidates, and the Republican People's Party Group has announced 12 members to the Speaker. The Parliament Speaker wrote to the Republican People's Party Group and reminded them of the 109th Article of the Interior Charter, and demanded that the members be replaced by this clause, stating that some of them would not be able to take part in the Commission because they had previously expressed their opinion on the matter they were asked to investigate. This is actually the General Assembly's authority, and I have addressed the Speaker of Parliament by writing, and this authority is not yours, it is the General Assembly's, you can't remove the authority of the General Assembly. The Speaker of Parliament has insisted, no, it is my authority if this is written in the Interior Charter. So, of course, in order to get results, instead of prolonging that debate, we announced the members of the council's bid. There is a great contradiction between the two positions, where I am the authority. The Speaker of the Parliament, who insists on implementing the 109th Amendment of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0117par0281	But that's not legislature.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0116par0282	...as for the implementation of Article 35 here, it's time for a Speaker of the Parliament to write to the Plan and Budget Commission in a manner that will receive an answer and pass the answers to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0118par0283	The Speaker is not the commissioner's supervisor.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0116par0284	I condemn the Speaker for his double standard here, first and foremost, and I invite him to claim his writing. However, because of the 35th article of the Civil Code, the authority is mine. If he has this view, he interprets the 35th article in this way, then he must do what he has to do. In this way, the number of rows can't be discussed. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0119par0286	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0120par0287	Mr. President, of course, you know, you don't do business with people, sir. Mr. Canikli said: "You know what this is." I say that Parliament will discuss the commission reports, adopt or reject the report. Therefore, there is no statement of will to discuss the report. The bill of law says, so, where is such a bill, they explain it, but, I mean, just now... the ruling of the Civil Charter says that they can't do it, they can't do it. So, if the Speaker of Parliament says it can't be done, it can't be done, it's ruled. It's not legally possible to report anything that's not in your jurisdiction. Now, when the proceedings come to the House, the Turkish Grand National Assembly closes them to lawmakers' reading, doesn't it? He hung up and said, "You can't look." In the matter of the parliamentary investigation, a political party has returned the parliamentary inquiry motion, which is not appropriate, he said. Now, what's the job to do in this situation? It is the gathering of the commission and the processing of these provisions, which have been added in violation of the Civil Code. In that regard, there is no report, nor will there be a statement of will to discuss a report that does not exist. In that regard, the suggestion is irrelevant, Mr. Canikli. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0121par0290	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit03spe0122par0291	Now, I'd like to invite our group presidents to stand behind the bench, if you'd be so kind. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0122par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, it is understood that there have been some objections to the Commission Report and text of Bill 639. Due to the bill and objections to the report, it is suggested that the bill cannot be brought up and cannot be put into the group's proposal. Turkey's Grand National Assembly chair published the commission report and distributed it to lawmakers and placed it on the incoming list. The group proposal is also relevant to the adoption of the report on the agenda of the General Assembly. Our presidency is not authorized by the Commission to adopt or extradite a bill and a proposal distributed by the presidency. The opinions expressed here will be assessed by commissioners and lawmakers. Rescinding the commission, the main commission and the government's authority to change or reject the bill are also under the discretion of the High Assembly. Now, I'm going to open up a discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0123par0006	Against...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0124par0007	Lehte...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0125par0008	Against...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0126par0009	Against...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0127par0010	Lehte...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0128par0011	Against you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0127par0012	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0129par0013	Against you, Mr. Kamer Young.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0128par0014	Mr. Young, it's against... Then we'll draw lots.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0130par0016	Well, let me speak in favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0128par0017	Okay, fine. Mr. Canikli, in favor; Mr. Young, in favor.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0131par0019	But, sir, the Kabbat was born earlier.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0128par0020	Mr. Young said it first.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0132par0021	Sir, he said... he said it.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0128par0022	Against him, he said, and then he turned in favor.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0133par0023	Good, good, Mr. Kamer speaks in your favor.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0128par0024	This is the first time Mr. Young will speak in my favor. Don't do it.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0134par0025	It's a historic moment, why are you missing it?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0135par0026	No, let's look at the records.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0136par0027	He talks more, Mr. President, as a result of these deep understandings.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0137par0028	Sir?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0136par0029	There's a deep understanding, and I think he talks more, so it's fine.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0138par0030	Would you read the order, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0137par0031	I'll read it now. In Polish, Mr. Canikli and Mr. Young, against Mr. Kaplan and Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0138par0033	Mr. President, now, look, when I said you were discussing the law, I immediately asked you to speak of this place.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0139par0034	Sir, let's take a look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0138par0035	Mr. Kamer, I suggested Young One for myself. In fact, you didn't even write my name. I'm asking you, bring in the transcripts, and we'll do it.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0139par0037	Let's look at the reports, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0140par0038	Okay, we'll write you down first. Let's do this: I'll draw lots of all the people who say it. There's talk, we can draw lots. Against Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, Mr. Kamer Young, let's write them down, draw lots. After that, we'll write them all down.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0141par0041	Take out Mr. Canikli, why are you taking out Mr. Kamer?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0140par0042	I'm not taking anyone out, I'm drawing lots.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0142par0043	Sir, what's the draw about, the ones in favor?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0140par0044	No, I'm going to draw lots, against, against, against, against, against, against.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0143par0045	He said, "Lehte, young man."
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0144par0046	At first he said, "It's all right."
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0140par0047	Look, master, we're taking this. I wrote Mr. Canikli and Mr. Young. I wrote Mr. Kaplan and Mr. Vural. But he said I didn't see Mr. Hamzacebi. Yeah, I didn't see it, so I have no objection to that either. This time, he did, but there was a mix-up there. Now, Mr. Nurettin Canikli: Mr. Akif Hamzacebi said, "I wanted to be against you." He said, rightly, I didn't hear either.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0145par0050	I'll leave my word against Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0140par0051	You're leaving it to Mr. Young. There's Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0146par0052	Mr. President, I've been writing to the Speaker of Parliament on July 7th...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0140par0053	We've already written you, you're all right.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0146par0054	So we're four groups, one friend from each group...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0140par0055	I tried to give it to a friend from each group.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0147par0056	Let one person in each group speak, and this practice has been done before.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0140par0057	No, everything's been a problem for him. Mr. Hamzacebi, do we agree?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0148par0059	Mr. President, look, I'm against...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0140par0060	Mr. Young will speak against you anyway.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0148par0061	Is Mr. Young speaking against you, sir?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0140par0062	We wrote "Lehte" but he'll speak against it, naturally, because it's not enough.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0148par0063	Look, I wanted a word against you first. Mr. President- Okay. I pass my word on to Mr. Kamer Young. I made a statement.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0149par0066	Okay.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0148par0067	But you promise Mr. Young in favor.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0149par0068	No, I didn't hear that part, I didn't hear what you wanted. Mr. Young, since I've expressed no room for Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0150par0069	Mr. President, just promise one person from each group.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0149par0070	No, I want to explain. Mr. Young said I could be in favor. I know he's against it, but we still wrote Mr. Young. If there's no problem there, I'll keep it that way.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0151par0072	One for each group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0149par0073	Yeah, that's what we did, all right. Mr. Kaplan, may I ask you, I'll write you in favor, I'll speak against you again...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0152par0075	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0149par0076	But let me write it against Mr. Young. Let us do as Mr. Hamzacebi said.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0152par0077	I'm the one who started this, I'm the one who wrote the petition.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0149par0078	First words in favor, Giresun MP...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0153par0079	Mr. President, could it be Mr. Kaplan?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0149par0080	Yeah, well, he didn't hurt me today, Mr. Kaplan. First in Polish, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. I was giving him three minutes, but now I'm giving him five because of the attitude of Hasip Kaplan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0154par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Friends, we've discussed this in the Commission, let me inform you first. It's not about the pros and cons, it's about doing the right thing. The House needs to prove its legitimacy, folks. On July 7th, as a member of the People's Democratic Party Commission -- as a subcommittee -- I applied to the Parliamentary Presidency, which came as a government bill of 61 articles. I said, "This is out of order, the Parliamentary President, the Civil Code, without the Constitution, he's signing a commissioner, it's a law, it's not a law." Article 23 of the Civil Code is very clear on Article 35, the law proposals given according to the procedure go to commissions related to the Parliamentary Presidency, and in the relevant commissions -- if necessary, the subcommittee or upper commission -- will be merged or commissioned. When our warnings did not help, I appealed to the Speaker of Parliament, and I said: "Mr. President, the sixth joke of the 14th Amendment of the Civil Charter is very clear, and I also gave the example to the President of the Plan and Budget Commission as well as to oversee the commissions, to alert the commissioner and members of the commission and to the information of the General Assembly in case there is a buildup in the work, and I ask the President of the Assembly, "When we came here on July 7th," I asked him, "Did I not answer the truth, as a lawyer?" Do you guys know when he got here? Today, during these discussions, I received a call from my office, and my advisor said: "As of 18.45, the Speaker of Parliament has responded to you. I went to pick him up when there was an argument going on here. Now, I've been told here before this incident: the clues are in this report, the article of the July 14th Parliamentary Presidency, you see in the report, the Speaker of Parliament says: "You can't meet the Commission, which is broken under two pages, two pages, 48 titles, but more than 100 articles are against the rules." After that, our Commissioner Mr. Recai Berber answers two lines: "We did it in accordance with the procedure, President, bring it down with General Kurula." Then, it goes down to the General Assembly. Now, if you're going to put up with this whole General Assembly landing thing, I'm not going to say anything. The Speaker writes, and the Speaker of Parliament says we have studied your report from July 11, 2014. Friends, on July 11, 2014, the Parliamentary Commission was still in session, and the report was not written, which report did you read, Mr. Cemil Cicek, please report to this General Assembly, and write an article. Mr. Speaker, Mr. Cemil Cicek, if you can hear us, if you're watching, this is where you are. Well, you wrote to the Commission here on July 14th. Whereas the opposition is our July 13th 17th. We e-mailed it up to 00, and that's when the report was written. How did you see the report? What report did your experts examine? It's 12 o'clock on the 13th of July, even us as commissioners. We saw it at 00. I'm 12 o'clock. I saw it at 00, e-mailed it at 13.15. Now, in the e-mail I sent from here, the Civil Code says it's against 35. The 14th Amendment forces the Speaker to inform the General Assembly. This report cannot be discussed, my friends, until the Speaker does not make this information. The next Speaker, whoever's cheating, illegal, illegal, criminal, officer, bureaucrat, commissioner, commissioner, if you need discipline, discipline, whatever it takes. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In order for the negotiations to begin, the Speaker either has to come here or write here, he has to get the General Assembly to discuss it, or this bag won't open, friends, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0155par0094	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Kamer Young, Congressman of Tunceli. [[Applause from CHP rows]] This is the first time you've had a talk in favor, and they've stopped him, so let fate be ashamed. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0156par0099	Mr. President, I'll speak in favor whenever you want. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, unfortunately the AKP government doesn't listen to the Constitution, doesn't know the law, doesn't know the law. First of all, the Speaker of the House-- oh, my God, are you the Speaker or not? Well, Mr. Kaplan told me, so he doesn't know himself. Now, my friends, this bill came from the government in Article 61, and then the subcommittee was set up. Now that the subcommittee has been established, and the Plan and Budget Commission says: I'm talking about this based on the subcommittee report. Didn't he or she say that? He did. How many terms has he agreed to, subcommittee? 106 counts, he's examined it. 106 was accepted, and then it went up to 128. Oh, for once, it's like a sack like this, so it doesn't give a shit about a sack. You, my friends, have lifted the dignity of the House. Your mind works on corruption, thefts, nothing else. Gee, guys, now that the head of this investigation commission is sending these investigations back to the prosecutor in what capacity? Do you know why he sends it? The D.A. gave his man the order, Bekir, saying: "I am returning this investigation to you. Tear up the documents against us, then send us a clean trial. Is there such a thing as stealing, corruption, corruption in a country? How can you be so supportive of people who have wings? We say that those who rule the state in this country, if there is honor, if there is decency, they will pay for their corruption, their theft. Where are you? While you've been corrupting the state of the Republic of Turkey... sir, there have been so many thefts on 17 December and 25 December; Sir, Recep, Minister Yıldırım is instructing them, he says: "We're giving them free tenders, go get $630 million. He's going to collect 630 million, and you're going to cover it up later.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0157par0104	You believe all that, don't you?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0156par0105	He used to be a extortionist, but in your time, the government's taking the money, bro, so that's not gonna happen. That's not gonna happen, guys. That's not gonna happen. You're covering up imaginary exporters -- I'll tell my master -- covering up corruption. If you have a clear forehead, bring forth these proceedings. You've been here for months, you're always missing the agenda of the House. That's not gonna happen. This House has lost its legitimacy. Now, Recep Tayyip Erdogan is running for President. Friends, isn't it called money in Swiss banks? So, did he or she not write in Swiss banks about the property statement he declared, whether there was money in the Swiss banks? I'm going to apply to the Supreme Election Board now, and I'm going to say, "We can't get this, O High Election Council." Write to these Swiss banks, whether this Recep Tayyip Erdogan has money in Swiss banks or not. Look, but if he does, the presidential nomination will go too. Guys, he's out talking to the band today. So, now, do your other candidates have that much opportunity? One, my advice to the High Election Board is to resign from today. Yeah, guys, they're supposed to be high judges. Three of them are from the Court, four from the Supreme Court; they have high judge status. They're afraid of Recep Tayyip. So now, the Prime Minister... friends say in Article 79 of the Constitution: "The Supreme Election Board must ensure that the election is carried out with equal and honest principles." Recep Erdogan is now using the government's phone, driving his car, using his building, using his planes. What does the 11th article of the President's Choice Act 6271 say: "Purple persons cannot donate to candidates. " Are they or are they not donating to the candidates here, friends? Therefore, this has lost its ability to run. If the Supreme Election Board does not lower its candidacy, they will have to resign themselves. The Supreme Election Board has no right to make a questionable choice. This election is a questionable choice, and the Supreme Election Board is responsible for it. If they have a conscience, if they don't want to darken their children's future, they need to resign from those High Election Board memberships immediately, and Recep Tayyip has to cancel his candidacy. This law is invisible, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0158par0112	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0156par0113	Candidate... the AKP's proposal is against Article 52 of the Civil Code. Article 52 of the Civil Code states that it is the Commission's and the Government's right to make a request in less than eight hours.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0158par0114	Thank you, Mr. Young, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0156par0115	Okay.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0158par0117	Yes, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, please.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0119	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, if you believe that a person has serious problems at the point of character, if you believe that they are disreputable, don't take the criticism of those people seriously, laugh at them, or return them to them, give them back to them hard, and do nothing else.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0160par0121	Sure, you can do it. Do you even have a face to tell? You're the head of all corruption, you. You're the one who brought these motions here.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0161par0123	Shut up, shut up!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0124	Dear friends, now, look, the Commission is doing a study. The Plan and Budget Commission receive the bill in accordance with the procedure, and then the combined proposals, and the Commission completes its work.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0162par0125	In what way, Mayor, don't do it! Which one's the proper one?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0126	In its own way, in its own view, you violated some of these articles, while discussing these articles, in Article 35 of the Civil Code, and in its own assessment and interpretation, to the chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission, he says you acted contrary to the Civil Code. He's giving his opinion to the chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission. Now, first of all, the Speaker of the House...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0163par0127	Where does he get it from, where does the president come up with it, and tell me that. Is the president making this up?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0128	Please, please, I mean... In what capacity does the Speaker do it? That's a very important point.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0163par0130	He wrote it as he pleases?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0164par0131	Admirable President.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0132	The Speaker does this as an administrative function or as a function, which he performs as a function.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0163par0133	It's just a figure of speech. Did he just write it down?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0165par0134	Would it be a lie if you didn't push it so hard?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0135	I mean, look, there's a legislature here, and there's an administrative mission. If you're saying that... can we say that the Speaker is doing this as part of a legislative activity, as a determinator? We can't.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0163par0136	He's doing his duty, his duty, his duty.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0165par0137	It says here that the president is the president.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0138	Because when we say that, the Speaker, then, has the opportunity to change all of those texts that we've discussed, agreed on, and accepted within the scope of the legislative activity, and all of those texts that have been accepted in the General Assembly in the same way. Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0163par0139	It doesn't change it, it doesn't change it, it says it's the right opinion, don't confuse it.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0140	Look, then what is it? If he doesn't have the authority to alter it, if the Speaker doesn't have the authority to intervene in the act of law enforcement, to change the act of law enforcement...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0163par0141	He will supervise his work in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0142	...it's an administrative duty, a decision taken under administrative authority, and it's...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0163par0143	He supervises his work in accordance with the Civil Code. It says, look, read, read the 14th article there.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0144	A meeting, to be exact. We need to clear this up first. It's very important, dear friends. Why? If the Parliamentary Presidency's decision is an administrative decision, a decision used under administrative authority -- which it should be -- then Plan will write to the Chairman of the Budget Commission, and the President of the Plan Budget Commission will respond in the same manner as administratively. Then the Speaker sends and transfers this bill, which we plan to discuss, which is now on our agenda. In the framework of such legislation, the process is completed to negotiate this bill or proposal in the General Assembly, which means it's all over and done for discussion. After the President of Parliament's Plan Budget Commission's reply, you must change it. You need to gather. He doesn't write anything like that because he can't write, he doesn't have that authority.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0166par0146	Yeah, there's an audit mission, a duty to oversee the commissions, the Speaker.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0147	Otherwise, it means that an executive agency will use authority to completely eliminate the legislative activity, in other ways, to change it, which goes against national will, against democracy, against law, against everything.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0167par0148	What law, what law?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0149	He writes the Parliament Speaker's view, and the commission tells him that similar practices have been implemented countless times in recent years, and there are countless laws that are discussed with the General Assembly, in response to the statement of the Parliament Speaker, who later object in such a manner, but later wrote that the relevant commissioner is in accordance with the Civil Code and the law. It's all in effect right now, we're talking about maybe thousands of substances, thousands of substances. Look, the Plan Budget Commission does this kind of legislature, it has its agenda, and it represents will.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0167par0151	If he'd called us then, he'd have called the members before he made his decision. He didn't collect the commission, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0152	In this sense, the nation represents its will, where members of the Commission are having these discussions, bringing these assessments to the agenda, and making their decision within the scope of law enforcement. Likewise, in the General Assembly...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0167par0153	It's missing, it's missing. He's missing it.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0154	Dear friends, now, everyone can interpret it differently, think differently.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0167par0155	He needs to round us up and make a decision.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0156	If everyone wants to do what they think...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0167par0157	That's what you do.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0158	...in any way, the execution of legislation, the implementation of the national will.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0167par0159	He needs to reassemble the commission.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0160	That's what you think, but I think differently. So, who's going to decide? After all, the decision will be made by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0167par0161	Who runs it?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0162	...here, the people themselves are here, with the opposition of their people's will, here with their power.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0167par0163	Who elected the president, Mr. Canikli? And this General Assembly elected the president.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0159par0165	Therefore, the Speaker cannot use this will automatically to intervene in the act of law enforcement. The bill has been sent to the Parliament General Assembly to meet in accordance with the procedure. Thank you all, my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0168par0168	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0169par0169	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0168par0170	Mr. Tanal, let's finish this first, and then I'll listen to you. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0170par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, my fellow citizens, we are here together, representing the sovereignty of the Turkish nation and building a law. We've all pledged honor and honor to the state of law and to obey it. If a Parliament rejects the law of the nation, rejects the law of lawmakers, acts against the law and the Civil Code, it really stinks of salt. In that sense, it is the main duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to invite executives and executives who do not obey the law to the law of the nation. Right now, the law of this nation, according to the Civil Code, is that it can't do it, it has values of lawmakers. Can't do it, can't do it, can't do it, can't do it, can't do it? No, you can't. Because he can't do it, he says he can't. If you say, "I can't do it, I can do it my way." You say, "You're undermining the law, you're undermining the national will, you're undermining the sovereignty of the nation; I'll do anything I want." The Speaker tells you that the report and the text on these things have been returned to you, against the Civil Code. What's the job you have to do? Gathering as a commission to form a decision on this commission, which is in violation of the Civil Code. And Mr. Canikli just said it was an administrative decision. If it's an administrative decision, it's the commission's duty to take action in accordance with this executive decision because the commissioners have a duty to oversee it, it has to submit information to the Grand Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly as a result of this audit. How is it possible that when we come to the Parliamentary Office... it is possible for lawmakers here... to reject a motion for the establishment of an investigative commission... when the Parliamentary Speaker obstructs the rights of this nation... to investigate the rights of this nation's rights, the rights of the state... to the ministers of the State? So, as it is the job of managing the General Assembly, in this regard, it is the matter of work and actions against the Civil Code... Dear MPs, I beg you, this Civil Code says it can't be done. What can't be done after saying it can't be done? If it comes with a will, it smells of salt! I beg you, the law cannot offer, and the Speaker reveals his will. Put your hand on your conscience, my dear brothers, to break the law of this nation is an insult to this nation, an insult to the sovereignty of the nation, an insult to the will of the people we represent. We invite the nation to obey the law, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey says it is against law. Regarding this, if, as claimed, there is a statement of will regarding the bill of these proposals, as the Speaker of Parliament claims, that it is very relevant to the bill, then the Commission will round it up and make an assessment. Why? Dear lawmakers, we're discussing the report. When will the report be finished? The report is subject to the signature of the commissioners. A report adopted by the members of the commission then expressed an opinion by the commissioner, ignoring the commission report, ignoring the will of the commissioners.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0171par0179	He's not ignoring the commission report, he's saying something that's already in the commission report, President.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0170par0180	Friends from the Justice and Development Party, fellow members, we're discussing the commission report. Is it possible to add anything to this commission report after the commission report has been passed? It's not.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0171par0181	It can't be added. It says the content, it says the content, it's true.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0170par0182	In this case, the Commissioner has taken the authority of members of the Commission, added. Let's follow the law, look, let's follow the law.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0172par0183	We don't even know what the Speaker wrote, so we've seen the number of rows, so we've seen the number of rows.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0170par0184	In less than 48 hours, they even received an offer of a law given in three parts of it. My dear brothers, if the law is taken under the influence, there will be others in the House who will trample on the sovereignty of this nation. We can't possibly accept that. If the coupgers have broken the law that constitutes the sovereignty of this nation, it is unacceptable for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to trample this law.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0173par0187	Sovereignty is here, sovereignty is here.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0170par0188	In that regard, I completely reject the mindset of this coupzer, the understanding that ignores this Civil Law.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0174par0189	How can you call the General Assembly a coupger?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0173par0190	It's the House's decision, it's the House's decision. You can't call people's decisions a coupger.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0170par0191	It is impossible for this mindset to build the state of law in Turkey, which is undermining national will, national sovereignty and law.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0173par0192	The coup d'états aren't made here, they're made elsewhere.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0170par0193	In that respect, I invite you to follow the law of the people.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0175par0195	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0176par0196	That's a very unfortunate speech.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0177par0197	This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0178par0198	Mr. President, what Mr. Vural said is neither the President's writing nor the Commission's writing to the President's office have been presented to us in any way. Now that the report's been filed, we should have discussed it at the Commission.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0179par0199	The report has been discussed, sir, of course.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0177par0200	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0180par0201	Let them finish, okay.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0181par0202	Even our information has been seen in the number of rows. As members, we're supposed to put this Speaker's article on the agenda and discuss it with him, and it's incomplete.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0180par0203	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0182par0204	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0180par0205	Mr. Tanal is next, and then...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0182par0206	Okay.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0180par0207	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0183par0210	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, we're going to call it the 639 row, or the Proposal, or whatever we call it now, which, of course, should have been first published on the Papers Charter under Article 51 of the Interior Charter. We're looking at none of this on the Income Papers list, Dear President. That's one.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0180par0212	It's published, it's published.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0184par0213	It's right here. It's in the Papers.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0185par0214	He doesn't know what list it is, it's what he's showing.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0186par0215	Second: No matter whether the previous General Assembly is to be discussed by the President when it is closed, no matter what is not foretold, cannot be discussed in the General Assembly." he says. A third incident...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0187par0217	We've already had a formal discussion about what you're saying, and Mr. Young has expressed his views against you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0186par0218	The last sentence, my dear President.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0187par0219	Then one sentence, please...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0186par0220	Well, one sentence... The last joke of Article 52 states that the government or the principal commission...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0187par0222	It's a paragraph.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0186par0223	The General Assembly must first provide a reason for this discussion, no grounds have been given to you or given to the General Assembly. My plea to you is that the provisions of this Civil Code are incumbent upon you, and I demand that you make a decision according to these ordinances. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0187par0225	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0188par0226	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0187par0227	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0188par0229	Mr. President, the Commission report is at 12 p.m. on July 13th. It was redacted at 00, and it was sent to us by members on the Internet. It's 1700 hours for the opposition. Time has been given until 00. And it's 15 o'clock. At 00, we sent our opposition. However, after we received the report, we found that the report was completed on July 14th, which we wrote on the report, but a day later, the letter of the Parliamentary Presidency and the writing of the Commission's office entered the report. So the President of the Commission would have to deliver these articles to 40 Plans and Budget Commissioners, he would have had to bring them to the debate, he would have had to decide, then he would have had to finish them, he would have had to bring them here, but Mr. Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek would have had to inform the General Assembly. The Speaker is the President of the Assembly. I wrote a petition on July 7th, I wrote it on behalf of the group, I wrote it on behalf of the group, so it's official. The Speaker is not authorized to respond to the petition I submitted on July 7th at 6:45 p.m., after the report has landed with the General Assembly. Article 14 is required to inform the General Assembly in accordance with Article 6. Without informing the General Assembly... this is the mandatory state of the presidency, not the discretion of the law of procedure... this is the law, Mr. President, it's mandatory. Mr. Cemil Cicek, the chairman of parliament, should inform the General Assembly, not me, as Commissioner, but the Commissioner, should inform the Commission. After these two are complete, the negotiations must begin. Otherwise, it's a cripple, and there's a Parliament that's breaking the law.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0187par0230	Thank you, thank you. In favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, the first statement is from İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kabbat. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0189par0237	Mr. Kabbat, we know what we're going through in the Commission, and God knows.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0190par0238	Mr. President, my dear friends, yes, the procedural debate is over. In our group proposal, we propose that Law Bill 639, which is known as the Law and Proposal 639, be added to the fourth order of the agenda today, without waiting 48 hours, and meets with them, hopefully, by the General Assembly -- if our proposal is accepted -- start today. Again, we would like an international agreement on disability to be discussed in the fifth place on the agenda. Here, of course, there will be criticism of our opposition. It took 40 days on the commission, but hopefully with constructive criticism here, this law will quickly be enforced and enforced. I look forward to your support of the group's proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0191par0243	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0192par0244	Mr. President, sir, now that the procedure has been debated -- the way you argue about it -- the way you do it has to have a decision as a result of this discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0191par0245	I read that in the beginning.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0192par0246	Sir, then we need to take a break. So there is no change in my application as a result of the discussion of your decision on this matter.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0191par0247	Well, then, okay...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0192par0248	It has to be done after reading.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0191par0249	All right, all right.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0192par0250	So, after you take a break, do something.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0191par0251	Well, then I'll tell you, my attitude...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0192par0252	Sir, but...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0191par0253	Mr. Vural, it wasn't about my attitude either, I was just trying to...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0192par0254	It's about practice, it's about practice.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0191par0257	So, I've started a process discussion on one of your objections regarding the implementation of the House itself, so I've read a text on it before. Now I repeat: there is no change in my attitude. Now, the first word against the Justice and Development Party's proposal belongs to Mr. Mehmet Crescent Kaplan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0193par0265	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. The Justice and Development Party's non-recognizance of the Civil Code has long been known for its way of undermining the law. Not for the first time, but in the previous meetings, this has been discussed very often, even though the opposition party's representatives, the MPs, have repeatedly said, you continue to read what you know, I said, I am the right one. You say, "I am the right one." You try to solve it with the number of fingers. Of course, this violation of the Civil Code is important, but there is something much more important on the agenda of Turkey. And for that reason, I would like to share with you a topic that is at least as important in Turkey's agenda. I want to talk about a drug that is often mentioned in Turkey, where our young people are left to die every day, where our young people die every day, and are often mentioned in Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. President, is it possible to stop humming?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0194par0271	How do I cut it? Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0195par0273	All these people standing, look, they're all standing.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0196par0274	You insult them, they shut up when you insult them.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0195par0275	Take a break...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0197par0276	I can't take a break... now that your friend is talking, I can't disrespect him like that.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0195par0277	All these people standing, look, they're all standing.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0197par0278	I mean, I can't say sit down. So, members of lawmakers, please take a moment of calm where we can listen to the preacher. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0198par0281	Thank you. What is this...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0199par0283	Mr. President, would the Minister listen?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0198par0284	What is it these last days that our young people are beginning to lose their lives, that our bright, young children are facing death every day, what is this thing called bonzai? Deputies, bonzai, is an unnatural synthetic derivative of cannabis, a kannabinoid substance. It is a substance that can be injected into its leaves with methanol, acetone, fly medicine, even rat poison, and is injected into it. Dear MPs, there are now more than 64 derivatives in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0200par0287	Yeah, but is it in here, Bonzai?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0198par0288	Yes, I'll tell you now. I'd like to tell you about how you drugged Turkey, how you tried to fool the Assembly, something that was as important as that.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0200par0290	Everything's on time.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0198par0291	Dear lawmakers, bright young people are dying; of course, you have no problem with that. You don't care about the death of young people in Turkey's southeastern Ankara, in Turkey's southeastern Turkey, in Turkey's southeastern Turkey, in Turkey's southeastern Turkey, in Turkey's southeastern Turkey, in Turkey's southeastern Turkey, in Turkey's southeastern Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey's southeastern Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey's southeastern Turkey, in Turkey, in Turkey's southeastern Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0201par0293	Please, I beg you...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0198par0294	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0202par0295	Mr. President, it's not about the agenda.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0201par0296	Yeah, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0203par0297	Take Mr. Kaçir there, he's very curious to sit there!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0201par0298	Please, please...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0204par0299	Dear lawmakers, look, I'd like to tell you a little bit about the effects of the bonsai clause: there is no bonsai clause for drugs used in Turkey until 2010. It started in 2010, and the official records of the Security General Directorate in 2011 say that it has now reached a point where the use of this process will increase rapidly and spread so much that death will occur; we must take precautions. In the first six months of 2014, the use of bonzai and drug use have increased by 300 per cent. Why is it becoming common? Why is it going up so, 300 percent in two years, all of a sudden? You know, Turkey is on a transit road between Asia and Europe. On this road, I'm afraid Turkey is the busiest place for drug trafficking from the front Asia, Asia, to Europe. It's very common among young people. Why? Because of the unemployment of young people in development, because of their economic difficulties, it is a time when someone is trying to be especially imposed on young people in order to quickly forget and forget the problems of social harmony in large cities. One scary thing about it is it's easy to reach. It's synthetically built below the stairs, so it's often used in parking lots, in front of schoolyards, coffeehouses, where life is the most crowded, unfortunately. Dear lawmakers, one of the main reasons why it spreads so fast is because it's so cheap. So for $1, $2, $10, $5, I'm afraid that's what these young people are using. One of the main factors is the fact that it's being sold online via Facebook. Now, I'm asking you, valued lawmakers: You're watching people's Facebook, Twitter accounts, you're listening to people's phones, you know that if anything happens against you, you'll be able to bring it up immediately, 24 hours and seven days on Facebook, your government has not shown a single positive attitude towards the online drug. It's an important factor -- and I want to address the families who do -- close friends. When you're young, at a time when your children are restless, when it's more important to be influenced by the outside than in the family. If you're unemployed, let's get over it. You're a man. I'll tell you in the frame that scientists say today. If the current rate of spread continues, there will be mass deaths in Turkey within two and a half, three years if the government, families or authorities do not take precautions. Then I would like you to be a little more sensitive with this, just as we are violating what is so important about the articles of this Civil Code. Another problem, especially when it affects young people in this regard, is that they say: "Nothing happens at once. " It's not addictive, it's not addictive like marijuana, it's not addictive like morphine. It's a big lie; it's more than one thing, it's addiction, it's death, and the lives of children with our future go black. Dear lawmakers, I want some of our families, all of us to empathize from time to time, and I want you to empathize with the circumstances under which these young children die. ▪ Not my child. Let him stay away from us, no matter what else. In his understanding, we can't get out of this, if he continues, given the government's disregard for such young deaths so far. And when we say that, regardless of the political party's distinction, without the opposition of power -- these children, these young people, our future -- in order not to ruin the lives of our young people -- we need to take very serious precautions in our opposition, in the legal arrangement with the government here, we need to increase criminal responsibilities in the legal regulations, we need to give up a perception that the sales are only in the hands of drug dealers -- as if they were in the hands of drug dealers. Yeah, there's drug dealers out front, coffeehouses, buffets, cafes, tricking our young people. He's fooled by the rankings I just said, but the real problem is that there are so many barons in Turkey, and it's so easily distributed, and I don't see the government taking any serious measures on this issue. I'm asking you: have you ever heard of the arrest of barons in Turkey who have provided the transfer of drugs or especially the recent bonza? I'm warning you, this problem is a problem for all of us, and we have to work on it. Look, I'm the Alderman. In the last month, we lost three young men from bonzai. At the age of 19, Farhad Tarakçu of Gebze, Ridvan Al of Deepce, and Ramazan of Lakecuk. Ridvan Al is 23. Let me remind you of something that interests you very much. After all, our family is a reasonable family, we can't have children........................................and............................................................... he died at his death at the age as his death as his life as a 23 years as a victim as a victim as his friend............................................ his life as his death as his death as his death as his death as his life as his life as his life as his life as his life as his life as a victim........................................................................ Now I want you to empathize. I went to visit these families. One of the next-door parents called me, and she said, "Doctor, I want you to help me as a doctor, not as a congressman." My son drives a bonzai. I've known for three months, but I can't cure it. But I applied to Amathem, and they gave me six months, and they gave me eight months. I searched the place. Unfortunately, our interested expert friend, our fellow doctors, said that because of the intensity, sometimes we give six months, sometimes a year. I'm warning you now. There's no way you can ignore the danger ahead. Schools will open in September. In front of the schools, another part of what you call a footman, a footman, will enter the blood of our children, enter the blood of your children, and sink into this swamp. Let's not let that happen. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's not allow it with opposition and power. I thank you all for my time, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0205par0313	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Thank you, thank you very much. In favor of the Justice and Development Party's group proposal, Bartın MP Mr. Yilmaz Bronzeç. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0206par0318	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge in favor of the EC PARTY group proposal, and I hereby salute the General Assembly. The EC PARTI group proposal includes an important bag of bills that concern large communities. Thirty-eight days in the Plan and Budget Commission, an important bill that continues to negotiate and ultimately goes down to the General Assembly. Soma contains important regulations regarding the working conditions of our mine martyrs and the relatives of our miners. These arrangements should be legalized as soon as possible. That's why he says I'm in favor of the group proposal, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0207par0322	Thank you. Mr Sinan Oğan, the Iğdır MP, has the final word against the Justice and Development Party's group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0208par0326	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, we'll go to the iftar. So the AK PARTY guys are gonna talk for a minute, but I'm sorry, I'm not gonna talk for a minute.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0209par0328	Talk for two minutes!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0208par0330	Dear friends, please listen. So let's not hurt each other in half an hour, half an hour. Dear friends, a bag of laws is coming into the House just as the House is closing. This bag of legislation is primarily thought of for our citizens who lost their lives in the Soma disaster, but as time goes by, Soma stays on one side. It's been held in Parliament for thirty or so days, so bring it in, let's get Soma out of here, and then we'll talk about other things. Our words are not taken into consideration, and they become a whole encyclopedia in the House. What's the full name of this bag of laws? Law number 639? It's not. Now, if I could just read the full name of this, dear friends, I mean, ten minutes to read the full name of the law we're going to meet. I'm not talking about the name of the law or the inside or anything, but if we could read your name and then try to explain our thoughts on him, it wouldn't take ten minutes. Therefore, dear friends, this is not how it works. So you're exploiting everything, so don't abuse Soma. You're on your way from Soma. You've filled it up. Of course, in this process, as our National Movement Party -- we have a bag of laws coming our way -- we've had motions to deal with the real problems of the nation, but you haven't considered any of them. But don't worry, in the General Assembly phase, we'll bring in every motion, every motion, in that sense, to defend the rights of the nation, the motions that our nation has demanded. And you, of course, will continue to refuse as usual. Dear friends, doesn't the Speaker have any value? I mean, there's so much lawlessness that I said, "I'm blowing." At the point -- I'm sorry -- it doesn't happen. There's an open letter here from the Speaker of Parliament. Our other friends here, Mr. Group President Mr. Oktay, have also expressed himself. You stand here and say: "Ya, the Speaker of Parliament may say that but whatever we say will happen." I am calling the Speaker of Parliament from here: I am calling you out of law. If the party that he has come out of his heart rejects here, I invite Mr. Cemil Cicek to resign because you did not take the stand which Mr. Cemil Cicek said. The Parliament represents its unity, its integrity, and I pay attention to the friends who speak here -- it has no value at all. What Mr. Speaker will do here then -- if the writing is not taken into account here -- is his duty to the Speaker is to resign. (MHP applause) Otherwise, here's what that Speaker said after that, he'll have no value and no judgment, dear friends. But I also have one more word for the Speaker: Mr. Speaker, if you've tolerated so many unlawfulities by now, what you're about to say will be of no value. There's been a commission of investigations on four former ministers here. What happened? No, sir, the contents were not prepared. The index was sent back. If these friends of ours are truly innocent... as a member of this House, I want to believe that our friends are innocent because I think that the ministers of the Republic of Turkey should not be corrupt... and I sincerely hope that these friends of ours didn't commit corruption, which I hope is not true. I want to believe that these friends of ours should be innocent, as a citizen and as an MP, but by preventing this commission from being established in advance, but you're trying to hide the files prepared by this prosecution, and you're making me think that this is what I believe, but I want to believe that these friends have a lot to hide, a lot to hide. If these come out ahead of the presidential election, our citizen will feel that this power is up to its neck in corruption. You have to do what you do. Until the presidential election, you have to hide the corruption files, with a thousand excuses. Look, whoever steals the minaret finds its cover. If you want to remove this from the agenda of the House once, from the duty of lawmakers which must also be audited, you say this time: "Sir, the index is not prepared." The next time, you say the page number has been misprinted. I mean, you guys have a lot of excuses. But despite that excuse, I would expect from those four former ministers: "No, my friend, we want to be cleared immediately, we want to be cleared in front of the Turkish nation and in front of the Grand Assembly." I would expect them to object. Otherwise, that's where our thoughts change. Dear friends, I'd like to bring something to your attention on this occasion.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0210par0336	We'll go to the lakefront, I'll be a sacrifice, I swear we'll go to Lakehead.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0208par0337	And you, my friend, are going to the iftar here, but you know what I'm going to consider?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0210par0338	What if next time...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0208par0339	I'm going to consider the Turkmen children who can't get out. Give me a break. Stop, stop.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0210par0341	Two minutes, Turkmen...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0208par0342	Hold on, hold on. Look, a few of your friends have jumped like that before, so don't fall. Since Bayburt Bayburt, Turkmeneli has not seen such cruelty, Bayburt Bayburt has not seen such cruelty. Turkmen is suffering from diseases among their children. At least 10 Turkishmen die every day of disease and lack of food. A Turkman father I spoke to said: "I buried my child in my arms while running away. If I came back now, I wouldn't be able to find his grave. Friends, there are some issues that we are going to go to iftar late. Some matters are a matter of conscience, not things to say. Imagine what would happen to our Turkmen brothers today when we opened our fortunes and we had a bite in our throats. We're a great state, we're a great nation, we can protect and protect every Turkmen child there. We are a great nation, a great state, but... in his speech just now -- not enough time -- for the first time, our teacher said, "We are Turkish people." He said, "We are Turkish people." I'm so glad. I thank my teacher from here, my dear teacher, I really thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, our nation, our nation, says, but we are Turkish people.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0211par0345	He's underfoot, he's underfoot.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0208par0346	Yes, we're a great nation, we're a Turkish nation, and we're not the kind of people who sleep when our brothers are hungry, we shouldn't be. That's why I'm calling on the AFAD, the Red and the government. Our Turkmen brothers are dying there, our Turkmen brothers are dying of disease, our Turkmen brothers are dying of ISIS oppression, our Turkish brothers are dying of Maliki. They are dying of the persecution of Barzani. We are brothers of Turkmen, between Barzani, Maliki, and ISIS, but here you are, we'll go to the iftar, we'll feed ourselves in a moment, and the Turkmen's son is dead to me! But in this world, the National Movement Party will ask you to pay for it, and in the next world, you will have those Turkmen children on your hands.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0211par0349	What are you yelling about, the man himself says we're going to commit murder here. What are you yelling about?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0212par0352	Mr. President, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit04spe0213par0353	Before the Justice and Development Party puts its proposal to your votes, there's a motion for roll call, and I'm doing it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Ayadin, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Çıray, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Sesen, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Pine, Mr. Ozcan, Mr. Öner, Mr. Kören, Mr. Öz, Mr. Tamaylıkıkaya, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Kölkuk. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a full hour off from the merger; we'll be here at 8:20, 21.20.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0213par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the Justice and Development Party group's proposal was voted, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0214par0013	Mr. President, those of you who didn't agree... you said... they removed it, it wasn't accepted.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0213par0014	I'm having the motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/1851) I respectfully request and demand to be processed directly on the agenda of the General Assembly under Article 37 of the Civil Code for my First Amendment proposal. 10/7/2014
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0215par0022	Sir, those who agreed... those who didn't accept... you said, they didn't accept.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0213par0023	Let me take a look at the report. Over.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0215par0024	Those of you who didn't accept... you said, sir, you asked about the last of those who didn't. The lifters were inadmissible.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0216par0025	No, no.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0213par0026	Mr. Akif Hamzacebi of Istanbul, please come in.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0217par0028	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when I begin my words, I salute you all. The offer I'm talking about is an offer that I made on November 2013 to add a temporary clause to the 1111th Military Law. I bring to you the offer we made today in order to meet the expectations of the military at cost, which is called a military service in public, using the opportunity given by the Civil Code to solve a problem. Dear lawmakers, there is a problem in Turkey due to the long term of military service. The 1111th Military Law, which was established in 1927, is a law-enforcement arrangement that was established in regard to the needs of that period. Of course, there have been a lot of changes in this law over time, but the fundamental philosophy of that law, its fundamental spirit, is still going on. The law has an understanding that prioritizes the needs of the state in a state-national relationship or in a state-personal relationship, the needs of the state in a citizen's relationship, that puts the needs of the individual, the needs of the citizen in a second place in this framework. In the 21st century, in a century when the concept of defence has changed, the fundamental acceptances of this law must also be changed as Turkey increasingly has a different understanding of defence. One of the basic acceptances is that the military term in Turkey is very long due to mandatory military service. The length of his military term leads to a postponement of his troops in the event of a job when our young ones are put into life after finishing college or after finishing other schools. Today, we have thousands, tens of thousands of college graduates who have a master's degree in professional career planning, a Ph.D., an expert's exam, a master's exam. Again, in the same way, we have young people who finished school, finished college, or other schools, and took up business in economic life, where they found a place in this life. These are quite successful performances, but in the face of the length of his military term, they themselves have postponed military service until today. Now, in a painting like this, it would be an application that would cause a lot of problems for our young people to leave their jobs, to liquidate, to close, to become a soldier. For these reasons, Turkey has been drafted four times; in 1987, in 1992, in 1999, and finally in November 2011. The November 2011 arrangement did not meet public expectations. It is the Prime Minister himself who has caused this expectation. Since it is the Prime Minister himself who has caused the expectation, it must first be the Prime Minister's duty to fulfill that expectation. However, the arrangement issued in November 2011 did not meet expectations because it had the wrong content. According to the figures given by our national Secretary of Defense about six months ago, only 70,000 of them took advantage of that practice, even though 470,000 young people were involved in it. So -- except for the savings that have occurred since then -- 400,000 young people have not benefited. There are two reasons behind this failure. First of all, the price was high. But we had citizens who couldn't pay the price. For everyone, the price of $30,000 was high -- who can't pay, who can't -- and the age was high. Now, with our proposal, we predict that as of December 31, 2013, the 28-year-olds will benefit from this, but due to the passing of time, it must be corrected by "the 28-year-olds who received the day as of December 31, 2014." Those who don't have the money will be considered to have done basic military service without paying for our offer. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The details of this are in our proposal.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0218par0038	How do you tell them apart?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0217par0039	I can't give you any more information because he won't allow time. I'm offering it to you. I give you all my love, my respect.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0219par0042	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. İstanbul MP Aydın Aghan Ayadın. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0220par0046	Mr. President, I have received a personal promise from the esteemed MPs, Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, Vice President of the Republican People's Party, that the proposal for the priced military will be taken directly into consideration. On this occasion, I salute you all. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers were brought up 15 days ago by Mr. Numan Bürmiş, the AKP's Vice President himself, who had been waiting for about 600,000 soldiers. It's a known fact. About 600,000 people who have not served in Turkey remain in the balance. Most of them were employed after finishing their studies, either working as an employee or starting their own business, but over time, because they didn't do military service, they managed to score over 600,000. Now, these people, from now on, "I'm going to the army." He says he can't go, so as soon as he's finished college today, he's applying to the military department and he says, "I want to go to the army." And when he says, they can't be taken because there's more than enough soldiers. And because there's more to need, they can't be taken, they're waiting. To do that, we need to give these young people an opportunity. At the very least, of the 600 thousand people who are present, who are waiting, who are in the balance, maybe 100,000, maybe 80 thousand, if there's a new law, they'll go without waiting, paying the price. In 2011, we passed a Bedelli Military Law on this General Assembly, but that Bedelli Military Law was not expected to benefit. Why wasn't he seen? It was not seen in two ways: The first was 30 years of age, and there was a high age; if there were 29, 28 years of age, more people would go into the army at a price. Secondly, the price was too high, 30,000 liras; 30,000 liras is a very high price. For him, today, we had a law proposal from Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, which I gave in 2011, and then in 2012. On top of that, the Parliamentary General Assembly immediately needed to establish a new law on military service by agreeing with its power -- its opposition -- to establish its terms here together. If we don't pass this law of military service... we all know that such an expectation exists. Officials, executives and lawmakers of all political parties bring it up at certain intervals. Why do those people bring this up? Because when we go to our constituencies, there are young people who turn us around; they haven't served, they've married, they've had two or three children, they've started their jobs -- dozens of people are working with them -- and these people don't want to leave, they don't want to lose their job, they don't want to go away from their family, but they're 30 years old, 29 years old. There's a need for a soldier with a price. We also learned three or four days ago from a journalist close to the ruling party that the Prime Minister had a pre-election draft law on his agenda. For him, it's not about power, it's not about opposition, it's about what we all need to be on the agenda. Today in Turkey, hundreds of thousands are awaiting the immediate release of the law of military service, but we need to come up with such a law by agreeing with its power, its opposition, so that everyone can benefit from it. 30,000 liras is a very large number, come, let's take it to the level of $14,000, $15,000; let's lower it to the age of 30 to the age of 28; and in this way, let's open the way for young people who are expecting to be in military service from the age of 28, and young people who want to be in military service with certain limited resources; let's get them to their homeland and then contribute to Turkish economy, Turkish economic life. Whether he starts his own business or wherever he works, let him provide for his next life, his wife, his friend, his family. I thank you for listening to me patiently, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0221par0052	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0222par0053	I submit the motion to your votes, and I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0223par0055	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0222par0056	Sir?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0223par0057	Now, look, sir, it's against the law for us to work at this hour. Now, there's a decision that was made earlier, which is said in the decision that the decision made in the 108th Union on 25/6/2014 today was called between 15 and 2100 (July 22) Tuesdays. Later, on 8/7/2014, it was called until the end of the work of Law Bill No. 458 on July 15th, according to the 113th Union, but the AKP made another suggestion today, and in a law with 156 articles in it today, it also brought this to the agenda. So that's pretty much what we're going to come up with in 20 days, after 20 days, if we act accordingly, according to the Law, which is taken into account today's 639 rows. Now, in my opinion, of course, the AKP's members of the group are very inadequate, and those who do not know the meaning of their motion...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0224par0059	What's it to you?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0223par0060	Now, look, according to this situation, the day of the work of the meri stated on 8/7/2014 has been categorized because it is now a new...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0225par0061	We have a decision to work in the 16th row.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0223par0062	Yes, but, sir, I mean...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0225par0063	Here, with today's motion, he took the lead.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0223par0064	But then they didn't have any suggestions today.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0225par0065	He took the lead with a second decision.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0223par0066	Now, Mr. President, look, when you're sitting on that bench, please respond to these irrational, unconstitutional things that these AKP people bring in.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0225par0067	Now, I repay...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0223par0068	Now, in their proposal today, a new House hours must be set. So there's going to be a 159-point law, and then there's going to be 10 more laws. That's not gonna happen, so...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0225par0069	They've moved up the line. Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0223par0071	But, Mr. President, I mean, thank you means nothing.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0225par0072	I beg you, I've listened to you, it's all right.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0223par0073	Mr. President, look, but...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0225par0074	According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move on to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions."
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0223par0075	Well, then, sir, will you continue to the 16th position, Mr. President? Just hear me out!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0225par0076	Please, I've listened to you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0223par0077	But you did listen...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0225par0078	I've given you your answer...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0223par0079	Sir, you can't accept the suggestion of such an inconsistencies! That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0225par0080	And I answered. Thank you. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Kars MP Yunus Kılıç and Amassian MP Avni Erdemir and 79 MPs who are ranked in the 3rd ranking position of President of the Health Institutes of Turkey and the Constitutional Proposal and Health, Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Ankara MP İzzet Cett and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's and İstanbul MP İdris Baluken's; İstanbul MP Sena Kaleli and İstanbul MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul MP's Minister's Democratic Party; İstanbul MP's Minister's Democratic Party (HDP) Minister's Democratic Party (HDP) and İstanbul (HDP) Minister's Party (HDP) Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul (HDP) Minister's Party (HDP) Minister's Democratic Party (HDP) Minister's Party (HDP) Minister's Democratic Party (HDP) and İstanbul (HDP) Minister's Party's Party (HDP) Minister's Party's Party) İstanbul (HDP) Minister's Party (HDP) Minister's Party) Minister's Party (HDP) Minister's Party's Party) Minister's Party (HDP) Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party Commission? Here. Government? Here.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0226par0100	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0225par0101	Sir?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0226par0102	Sir, I have a brief request before... if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0225par0103	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0226par0106	Mr. President, you've just read it, and we've been named over and over again, members of the group, my name is the National Movement Party. As lawmakers of the National Movement Party Group, the law proposals that we offer regarding the social security of our tradesmen, subcontractors, pensioners, police, debt restructuring are combined, but unfortunately, this law is not in the context of our legal proposals. So, in fact, the Commission, and only the Commission, instead of putting these proposals in a basket, in a sack, in order to ensure that they were discussed, wanted to remove them directly from the agenda on the basis of a bill of law. In this regard, Mr. Commissioner, this would really benefit both the public and the lawmakers if the Commission took action according to our motions, whether they were involved or not. What was the outcome of our bill, rejected or accepted? If it's rejected, you know, when it's rejected, we can't bring it back for a year, not if it's accepted. In that case, we'd like to know the outcome of our proposal for the law. In a way, it's not incompatible to have our names passed as part of a plan and budget commission report, which so many lawmakers have worked so hard to come up with, but in that sense, I'm asking the Commissioner for an explanation. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0227par0109	Mr. President, sir, let's have the group talks, and then the Commissioner will be...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0228par0110	The Commissioner doesn't know what's being decided.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0229par0111	Mr. Vural, do you want my word on the 60th or do you want your normal...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0230par0112	Please. If you give it to me now, sir, we'll...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0229par0113	No, no, I'll make a promise on the 60th.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0231par0114	Mr. President, let the negotiations be held, perhaps within which the President of the Commission...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0229par0115	No, I'm asking about...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0232par0116	Sir, what's my offer? Is it rejected or accepted?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0229par0117	I promise the Commissioner two minutes according to Article 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0233par0120	Mr. President, I was going to give detailed, detailed information about these in my speech on behalf of the general group of lawmakers, but now, in the first meeting of the Commission, you know, a subcommittee has decided to establish a subcommittee and the subcommittee has been agreed to start working there, and the subcommittee for lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party of the Republican People's Party has been agreed on Article 2; 68 belonging to MPs of the Republican People' Party; 26 to MPs of the National Party of Peoples' Party (HDP) 12. As a result of the talks, the subcommittee report and text were also based on our top commission work.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0234par0121	Yeah, 106 counts accepted, and you agreed to 148.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0233par0122	In the upper commission work, groups, lawmakers have had proposals and motions -- and also when I give them information about the work I'm going to give -- all of these have been discussed, all of the combined laws have been discussed and discussed. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0235par0124	Accept or deny, what is it? The interview's okay, but what happened?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0236par0125	We want to know what happened, whether she was rejected, if she was accepted.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0237par0126	Except for the part that's been accepted, the part that's been rejected.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0238par0127	If it's accepted, it's in the report, not if it's not.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0239par0128	If you look at the text, you'll understand!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0237par0129	Except for those who are rejected among those who are accepted.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0238par0130	Sir, question-answer...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0240par0131	I'll give you two more minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0241par0132	Mr. President, the subcommittee report or text has been submitted to the top commission to include the motions adopted by these talks. So some of the motions were accepted, some were rejected.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0242par0133	Which ones are in the report?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0243par0134	Can you tell me which one was accepted?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0241par0135	Ten of the total 360 motions have been accepted. Four of them are in the form of substance abuse, others rejected. I can't tell you every single one of them. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0244par0137	It's not a motion, it's a bill, it's ours. We didn't make the motion, we offered the law.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0245par0138	We're talking about the law proposals, we're talking about the law proposals, we're not talking about the motions.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0244par0139	We didn't say the motion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0246par0140	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0245par0141	They're proposing, we're proposing the law.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0247par0142	Mr. President, we're not in the QA department, sir. Ask the question and answer the question, Mr. President. There is no such procedure, sir. There is no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0245par0143	Okay? We want to know the outcome of our bill! What happened to my law proposition?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0247par0144	You ask questions, you answer questions.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0248par0145	What answer is that? Let me get this straight. You fill everything in. We're opening, Mr. Hamzacebi. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0249par0149	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the statements that are now in front of us, and the statements on the website of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, should be exactly the same. Now, I've done a comparison, and the name in this row we're talking about and the name on the website of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is different, so are we going to be suspicious when we're following the Ipad, the Internet page of Parliament? Is that even possible? So which one are we going to honor? Now, it can be said that whatever the printed text in front of you is, what is the technology called the Internet for? That's why I'd like to ask for a recess until this difference is resolved, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0250par0151	Yes, sir!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0251par0152	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0249par0153	Who's that smart-ass over there?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0251par0154	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0252par0155	What smart-ass? I said it, I said it. I said it. You're the smartass!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0249par0156	You're being a smart-ass.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0252par0157	You're the smartass!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit05spe0253par0158	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0253par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with the 639 rows of the number of Bill of Laws. The commission is here. The government is here. Members of parliament, the title of Report 639 ranked on the website of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been specially included since there are technically a limited number of characters entered into the section of the title "Community Reports" (a) in the search form.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0254par0009	In a nutshell...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0253par0010	However, the original text of the report, pdf, is exactly the same as the number of printed rows. I gave you information from tech services. And since I don't know anything about computers...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0255par0012	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0253par0013	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0255par0014	The name of this bill is not included in the online section of the Commission Reports. So we don't have the names of any of our other friends who made an offer after they were cut in the middle.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0256par0015	It's not enough, it's not enough...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0255par0016	So it's the 21st century. The presidential candidate, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, paints a 21st century vision, but we can't access the bill on the website of his ruling Parliamentary Presidency. It can't happen, it's impossible to accept.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0257par0017	That's the information I was given, Mr. Hamzacebi. Now, lawmakers, according to the decision taken, this bill will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Members of parliament, a motion has been made by Mr. Kamer Young to extradite the proposal to the commission on the grounds that it is contrary to the Constitution, in accordance with Article 87 of the Civil Code. In Article 87 of the Civil Code, it is stated that if there are no provisions contrary to the laws and the Civil Code, the motion can be submitted by lawmakers on the return of all or one clause to the commission. The 88th article of the Civil Code provides a special provision that ensures that the commission and the government may want all of the draft and proposals returned to the commission. In accordance with this special provision, lawmakers, except for the main commission and the government, are not able to submit a motion to restore the bill or proposal to the commission. This is also the implementation of Parliament for the return of the bill and proposals to the commission. Under the remembered decree of the Civil Code, the motion will not be processed.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0258par0020	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0257par0021	Let me finish... Example applications: April 5, 2011, merger 86; January 21, 2014, merger 49. Yes, please.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0259par0024	Now, sir, with this thing... I mean, Turkey's Grand National Assembly is erasing MPs and President of the Interior Charter. Now, according to Article 87, the Civil Code states that in what circumstances has the government, the commission, and in what circumstances has authorized lawmakers to extradite the bill and proposal to the commission? The 88th article has given the commission and the government such authority, and the 87th article has recognised its MP. Now, look, in this law that's been passed, it says, "The Bill of the Law on Reconstructions of Some Adjudications in the Law and Some Laws." Now, when you study this law, it changes 70 laws. I mean, the Plan and Budget Commission, for one thing, is not relevant. Look, how many proposals have you just combined, and you've read his name, and now we're going to write down all these proposals that we're going to make, and it's going to take at least ten minutes to get to the top of the motion. I mean, that's not gonna happen. Now, here's the Law on Work Law and certain Laws. You know, there's the Law on Computational Law. There's the Law on Taxes, there's the Law on Taxes, there's the Law on Letters, there's the Law on Laws on Laws of Laws, there's the Law on Laws of Laws of Laws, there's the Criminal Law on Laws, whatever you can think of. Now, such an informal commission, the commissioner of the Commission, has not studied the issue, not the issue... We say: So this Turkish National Assembly has a reputation. You're not unjustifying this motion, so your previous practices are always unfair. The MP says: "This bill and its proposal are contrary to the Constitution; it is contrary to the Civil Code; let the Commission review it again. Let us discuss it. If you're arguing, I mean... the majority of the AKP won't accept it anyway.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0260par0028	There's only one thing I can do, and that's to open up a discussion.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0259par0029	So, open up the procedural debate.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0260par0030	You can start a formal debate.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0259par0031	I want word against word.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0260par0032	Other than that, I can't do anything, so we have to keep going.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0261par0033	Mr. President, you promised me.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0260par0034	Against you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0262par0035	Sir, the procedure, the debate of what?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0260par0036	He may have a legal argument, but other than that, he doesn't. Wait a second...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0262par0038	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0263par0039	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0264par0040	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0265par0041	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0266par0042	Against Mr. Young, in favor of Mr. Canikli, Kabbat, against Mr. Hamzacebi. Yes, please.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0267par0044	Let him come out, talk, talk, see what he has to say. I've never met people without so much wisdom and dignity.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0268par0046	Mr. President, we're here to cross the boundaries of discipline, not be presumptuous...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0267par0047	You're the one who doesn't know his place. First, come here by reading.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0268par0048	Now look, the border is here. Please, do what you have to do, Mr. President. Do what you have to do...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0269par0049	What happened? I didn't hear.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0268par0050	There's a limit to patience.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0269par0051	What happened? I didn't hear.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0268par0052	Sir, I mean, the words are gonna come out really hard. Please do as you're told, Mr. President. Please do what you have to do. I'm patient, I'm patient, I'm patient, but patience has an end, patience has limits, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit06spe0269par0053	I'm gonna take a ten-minute break from the merger, and I'm gonna ask the group's deputy presidents in the back, and then I'm gonna continue the procedure discussion, and we're gonna look at the report.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0269par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The Commission and the Government are here. Now, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, MP of Giresun, is in favour of the first word in the procedural debate. Here you go. I'll give you three minutes each.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0270par0007	Sir, if you explain the subject of this procedure discussion, they've forgotten about it.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0269par0008	Sir.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0270par0009	If you explain the issue of the formal debate, they've forgotten.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0271par0010	We didn't forget, we didn't forget. How do you know we forgot?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0269par0011	There's been a legal debate on extradition in violation of the Constitution... Oh, by the way, Mr. Canicli, I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to put you on hold for two minutes. When we address each other, members of lawmakers, please, let's not use hurtful, insulting, hurtful words here, and I would like to ask each and every one of you in particular. Words are very hurtful to people. From that point of view, I'd like you to pay special attention to this from now on. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0272par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. I took a pledge in favor of the position of the Presidential Court in the formal debate. I salute you all. Dear friends, in the 87th article of our Civil Code, it has just come up on the agenda, and if there are no provisions in law or order contrary -- this is very important, decisive -- in this case -- in the draft or proposal, the rejection of a clause in the bill or proposal, the extradition of all or a substance to the commission, the amendment of a clause, the application or temporary clause, the MPs may suggest changes. Seven motions can be submitted by lawmakers in the office of these foundations for each clause, including amendments to unconstitutionality, and there's a general arrangement here. At the entrance of the sentence; elsewhere, in another part of the Civil Code, if there is no rule against it, it is shaped within the framework of this Article 87. In the next article, a more specific arrangement is being made here, and an arrangement is being made that we can refer to as "judgment" or "judgment." So he's making an arrangement that I've just read in Article 87, which I'm trying to read, that I'm trying to read, in contrast to that, that should be considered a judgment, which is: the request of text or matter. He specifically arranges the bill or proposal that is being discussed here, in which cases it can be returned to the commission. There he may ask for a commission or a government, a bill or a proposal to be returned to a commission or a number of articles. This request is carried out without discussion. This arrangement is a special arrangement on the subject we discussed, and this special arrangement must be implemented. The entire application of this issue has already been carried out in this framework. There's never been a contrary, contrary application. Therefore, due to that statement in the first sentence of Article 87 of the Civil Charter, the Court gives only the commission and the government the authority to extradite the 88th Article, which we should accept as a judgment. It is not possible for MPs to be able to request that the legislation or proposals discussed in this framework be renegotiated by one or several articles or all of them to be sent to the commission. Thus, the position of the President is correct in the application of this framework so far. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0273par0022	Thank you. Against you, Mr. Kamer Young.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0274par0024	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are now authorized by the government, commissions and lawmakers in the works of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, Canikli, of course, I don't know which college graduate... Now, it says here: "If there is no law against the Law and the Civil Code, there is a rejection of a clause of the bill and its proposals." Does everyone want a rejection of a clause? Whether it's a commission or a government...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0275par0027	So does the congressman.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0274par0028	...and the people want it. The government wants to change a clause, whether it's a commission or a congressman. Whether the government wants a clause returned to the commission, whether it wants a commission or the MP wants it. Anyone who can read and write should know that. Whether the government wants a clause to be changed, whether it wants a commission or a congressman. Look, we need to know the working philosophy of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the facts. Now, the 88th article says that, in some cases, the text from a commission would be wrong, the government would misconstrue it, and the government would say, "Friend, I want this clause back to this commission." But the MP might want it back to this commission, because there are some principles that the commission and the government didn't realize. Then there was no need to place this in Article 87, Mr. President. Now, before you, unfortunately, they're asking the people next to you about that commission because the ignorance of our people, who are acting as Speaker of Parliament, lacks a certain sense of judgment due to their inadequacies. The people next to him are also misinterpreting because of AKP's judgment.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0276par0034	Mr. President, he's insulting everyone.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0274par0035	Now, the matter is very clear. I've made a motion, and I say, "Look, 70 laws have been changed at the beginning of this law, but the Work Law says, "And some Laws and Laws have been passed." Loud and clear, the title of the law and the text don't match. Also, there have been such discrepancies in the law that, here, Article 35 of the Civil Code, there have been violations of the Constitution. Guys, what you're doing is you're taking the law off the board of law. Is that a thing? The Constitution is clearly against the Constitution. The decision to stop the administration is a principle adopted in Article 125 of the Constitution, but with this bill you have brought, because of the ignorance of this commission, I mean the opposition. If the opposition party MPs have expressed these things, you'll come out, and you'll say here: "We said these things, the AKP Group didn't accept them." It's really clear, it's contrary to the Constitution. You also accept such a verdict. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0277par0038	Mr. Young, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0278par0039	What are you, a professor or an ordinarian or something? Which school did you graduate from?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0274par0040	You're ignorant, ignorant!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0278par0041	You're ignorant!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0279par0042	Lehte... please... please...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0274par0043	You're ignorant, ignorant! Go and read it!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0278par0044	You teach like an Ordinarian. You're talking nonsense! Come on!
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0279par0045	Mr. Doğan Kabbat, İstanbul MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Since I've taken my share of ignorance, please... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0280par0049	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to express my opinion in favour of our president's position in the debate of the procedure. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear MPs, a bill or proposal in the Interior Charter is organised in either the commission process or the Civil Code in the General Assembly. In the commission phase, it is carried out according to Article 38 of the Civil Code. According to Article 38 of the Civil Charter, the commissions examine these proposals and proposals, whether they are in direct or veiled violation of the constitution's essence and its word, and send the report to the General Assembly according to the Article 42, and this action has been carried out.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0281par0051	Mr. Doğan, did anyone listen? We've said it many times. We've said it many times, saying it's against the Constitution. Is anyone listening?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0280par0052	Therefore, in any way, he did not take the claim of violation of the Constitution seriously. If it's in the General Assembly stage, how to bring these allegations up is still in Article 87.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0282par0053	So, what's written in article 87?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0280par0054	Articles 81 and 91 are indirectly edited and edited in Article 84.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0283par0055	The 100th article is clear, it is contrary to the Constitution, and it is true.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0280par0056	Now, amendment proposals can be made, and the claim against the Constitution can, of course, be brought up. Article 87 states that lawmakers may submit a motion on whether a clause should be rejected or changed or added to the proposal or temporary or supplemental clause, and there is a clause here in the first joke of the 87th article, as opposed to the original commission and the government's extradition, yes, but the first sentence of Article 87 of Article 87 provides a constraint. Now, when we look at Article 88, we see that the authority to request a clause or a bill or a whole proposal to be returned to the commission has been given to the principal commission or the government. Therefore, the 88th article shows that lawmakers do not have the right to submit a motion at the point of extradition of a bill or proposal of all of its proposal, as an exception to the 87th article. In other words, after we have discussed all the fundamental laws here, the groups, individuals, will be able to express their claims of violation of the Constitution, and the General Assembly will have met the claims of violation of the Constitution by refusing to submit them if they see them as valid. Other than that, I am in favour of the presidential position at which such a motion to extradite such a motion on the matter is not being processed, since the amendment motions can only be submitted by the MP, and I respectfully salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0284par0059	Against him, İstanbul MP Akif Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0285par0060	Mr. Mahmut Tanal will speak.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0284par0061	Mr. Mahmut Tanal, Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0286par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Of course, the point of discussion is one: can this whole thing be sent back to the Commission? Two: Is the Constitution against the Constitution? Look, lawmakers, I'm going to say in the brochure 639 rows distributed to us, and I'm going to say in the brochure, it's the same writing of the Speaker of Parliament on page 588: (Commissions can't offer the law, but don't engage in anything other than the jobs they've been referred to. How much, how many laws have been offered? I'm going to call it a pamphlet in this brochure that's being distributed to us at this time, an unknown law, such as the usual unsolved murders. So in this regard, is this against the construction of the Constitution, etc.? Indiscriminate. Sir, let's come to the point of whether the proposal can be sent back fully or not. What does the Civil Code say? Sir, the current Civil Charter is included in the text of the law. For the end of the discussion, Mr. President, the article on the sidelines states there is a request for the text of the article or the item in 88. The Commission or the government has made this proposal wrong, or the bill that has already been passed. The commission and the government can also want it back. And what does the 87th article of this say? On the sideline of Article 87, the amendment proposals, which is that the MPs here are not a scarecrow, but I apologize to all our fellow MPs, so I have to say this sentence. Sir, there's no way the MP is going to view this as unconstitutional, sir. You can't ask for it back. You can't ask for it back. Can you show me a verdict?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0287par0069	It's not a recall, it's a refund.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0286par0070	Could you show me a verdict called "You can't return it, You can't make a amendment motion?" Loud and clear, the right of the MP here to be born of both the Constitution and the Civil Code. He has the authority to request the extradition of the MP to the commission because his entirety is unconstitutional, but, Dear President, you say: "This is not the case in the past." There are no precedents in the past; of course, there are no precedents. A second issue: There is no precedent for the wrong decision of those who run the House in the past - a bad precedent. As a result, it turns out that you're the brave, courageous Speaker of the House who knows the business, and that's you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's how much we believe and trust you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0288par0074	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0286par0075	I'd like you to make that decision in that sense, and I'd like to pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0288par0077	Thank you. Likewise.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0289par0078	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0288par0079	Sir?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0289par0080	Sir, I believe the procedural debate is over.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0290par0081	Looks like there's another one.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0289par0082	It's been a subject of debate from time to time, so there's been some discussion of procedure, but it's never been clear in the General Assembly's mind. So, what I'm asking you to do, sir, is to make this clear by putting the General Assembly in the game.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0291par0083	No, sir, that can't happen, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0289par0084	No. This is what I say in the 60th article, when necessary, it is applied to the vote. So, sir, let's put it to a vote. Let's not make this a constant issue of debate in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0291par0086	The application is obvious, sir. This can't be a vote on the application board, Mr. President, it can't be a vote.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0292par0087	Thank you. Now, there's never been a road like this in the framework of applications. I specifically opened the discussion of the procedure myself in the framework of the boards. Therefore, there is no change in my attitude. Mr. Cetin, I promise you one minute according to Article 60.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0293par0092	Mr. President, of course, it would have mattered if you'd given me my cue on time, I'd have asked a long time ago. Indeed, it is not in accordance with the regulations of this bill, both in the subcommittee and in the main commission, and the law proposals of the lawmakers, which you count here as reading the name of the law, have not been discussed in accordance with the commissions. An effort has been made to be converted into a provision, as opposed to what the Commission's president said, as long as no motion carries the signature of the ruling party's members of the Commission. Therefore, the only reason the law proposals for lawmakers in this bill are written on the law is to take them off the agenda and prevent them from coming to Parliament for a year.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0292par0094	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0294par0095	Mr. President, why didn't you file my motion?
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0295par0096	Mr. President, I had a motion.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0292par0097	I'll process it.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0295par0098	Mr. President, I beg you...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit07spe0292par0099	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger. I'll take a look after the break, sir. Dear Yakut, I invite you.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit08spe0292par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The Commission and the Government are here. Members of the law, there is a motion for a retraction of an offer in 639 rows of business, and I will have it read and put to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu and Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu in Report 639 are withdrawing his proposal for the law. I submit to your votes...
tbmm-2014-07-15sit08spe0296par0018	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit08spe0292par0019	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Kalkavan, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Private, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Atici, Mr. Öz, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Öğün. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-15sit09spe0292par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 116th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I repeat roll call. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In accordance with the decision taken, it is Wednesday (July 16th 2014) that we discuss other tasks from the commissions in order to meet with the bill and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
