tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 7th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It's a surprise, but come back tomorrow. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Mr. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu who wants to speak about the conquest of Tripoli. Here you are, Mr. Canalioğlu.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0002par0012	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition to being a historical port city, Mr. President, the 553th anniversary of the conquest of our beautiful geopolitical figure, Sultan Mehmet Han, is celebrated this year. After the conquest of İstanbul on 29 May 1453, Sultan Mehmet Khan knew it was necessary to take the Greek Pontus State, which came from the same bloodline as Byzantines and was formed in Tripoli at the end of the 4th Crusades, because it was also hostile to the Ottoman State, as well as to its claim to Istanbul in the future. Again, some European states were stirring up opposition to the Ottoman state, and the Akkoyuns were acting with it. Tripoli was also located on a historic port city and Silk Road. Because of all his geopolitical properties, Sultan Mehmet Han has conquered Tripoli on 26 October 1961. Thus, the conquest of the Black Sea's southern coast increased the Ottomans' effectiveness on trade routes through the region, and an important port had been acquired in the Black Sea. As we speak of such an important city, we refer to it as a city conquered by Sultan Mehmet of Fatih, who served as governor during the princeship of Yavuz Sultan Selim, who was born of the Law, and who visited three times by the founder of our republic, the Great Leader Ataturk, and wrote an important portion of his will in Tripoli. Since the earliest ages of history, the people of this beautiful city, which has been harboring mankind, have always demonstrated an understanding of their state, their nation, their traditions; they have been on the front line in the national struggle. So that when Mustafa Kemal Ataturk first visited our Tripoli on 15 September 1924, when I first set foot in Samsun, I was reminded of the strength of having the Tripolins on the front line of those who welcomed me. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, despite all of our qualities, has our Tripoli received the investments he deserves and expects in recent years? I'm afraid he didn't. I'd like to sort these out as short headlines. On every occasion, I say from this bench at every opportunity, but our Tripoli MPs, especially our ruling lawmakers, unfortunately, don't take our proposals, our statements, but in these elections, our citizens will take them into consideration, I hope. First of all, the southern freeway mentioned over the years has not yet been built. In addition to keeping his word in the air, there is no movement in the shipyard, where the filling is complete, the national fortune has been waiting for seven or eight years. The logistical center is uncertain. In addition to the fact that our esteemed lawmakers have not received their share of tourism, unemployment has also increased by 7.4 in the last year. We regret to be ranked first in the migratory order. Because of this migration, we have people all over Turkey, people from Tripoli. In Tekirdağ, Çanakkale, Mardin, Diyarbakır, Diyarbakır, there are people of Tripoli everywhere they go, and they are in the front row and they make significant contributions to their country. However, along with this migration, not only our workforce, but the brain power of Tripoli is also migrating. Our artists have come to the point of migrating from Tripoli because it is an act of our trade. In 2013, there were 113,939 executive files, and the number of executive agencies was increased to 3. In such an important city, tea and nuts have not earned their share. Unfortunately, the nut producer who was affected by the events of Don failed to get the incentives he deserved, the incentives he expected, and when we asked him a question, it was announced that he would be supported at the point of being insured or uninsured. Agriculture, commerce, tourism are crawling in places, my dear friends. The AKP lawmakers who come here say very nice things, but that's the real thing, and Tripoli is everywhere, and it's worth adding everywhere. That's why we say, precious MPs, we're all over Tripoli. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you. Before I make a promise to my other friend, I congratulate Mr. Levent Gökalt, who has been elected deputy leader of the Republican People's Party Group, on behalf of both myself and the Court, and wish you success. God forbid. [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] The second non-responsive statement is from Van MP Kemal Aktaş, who asked for humanitarian aid to immigrants from Syria and Iraq. Here you go, Mr. Aktaş.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0004par0034	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the situation of civilians who have come to Turkey due to the war in Syria and Iraq, and I salute your delegation and the Parliamentary General Assembly. As it is known, the events that began in March 2011 in Syria soon became civil war, hundreds of thousands of people lost their lives, millions of people became refugees. Of course, the most tragic of this wave of migration has been experienced by the Kurds and the Kobani Kurds, who were subjected to the threat of the massacre of a wild organization called ISIS. I'm going to pass on the number and the state of the public services they've received today, the Kurds of Ezidi and our Kobani brothers, who have been frequently controversial in recent days. As it is known, the wild organization ISIS has moved to the area of the undefended Ezidi Kurds, where the estimated number is around 700,000, and the peoples of Turkmen, Alevi and Yezidi have had to migrate to neighbouring countries. 20,000 to 25,000 of them have entered Turkey's borders. All immigrants who come are represented by the sign of Syria. It is known that no camp has officially opened for the Ezidi population entering Turkey, and that the arrivals continue to live on the resources of relatives, municipalities and people in the region. The number of immigrants entering Turkey from March 2011 until the beginning of the internal turmoil in Syria is about 1,600,000 people, according to data from the President of Afet and Emergency Management. Two hundred and twenty thousand of these people were housed in temporary shelters. In the same way, during the thirty-four days of the attack on Kobani (Islamic State of Iraq and Syria), according to Suruç's data, 190 thousand people arrived in our district and 90 thousand of them were registered and 5,000 to 6,000 remain in the AFAD assembly centers. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, even the data published by official institutions on the number of populations is corrupting information itself. If this information is true, there is no telling what the state and whereabouts of a population of 185,000 people who are said to have come from Kobani (Kobani) are and how they live their lives. However, for days now, the Prime Minister and government officials have opened our arms to 200,000 Kobanili, hosting them, aiding them with hundreds of trucks. It is also understood from the following information that their statements do not reflect the truth. It is expressed by volunteers in the region where sensitive NGOs across the region and in general Turkey and in the efforts of 850 tents, 15-20 thousand people live in 850 tents, while 600 tents are trying to make similar contributions. The mosque courtyards, empty farmhouses, parks, and condolence houses are brought to the attention by the media's organs every day when thousands of people remain in unhealthy conditions. The services of civil society organisations and municipalities in the region are being delivered to Kobanilis via Suruç Municipality, where a total of 50,000 people are being offered daily service, including 18,000 in villages and 32,000 in the district centre. Our people and the people of Suruç are no doubt generous enough to share the last bite at their table with their brothers from Kobani. No one should have any doubts about that. However, the crowds of people are making it difficult for a small and limited district such as Suruç to provide all the services needed. Public resources must be mobilized immediately to ensure that the services to the incoming Kobanili are sustainable and accessible. The number of Kobanili left in Suruç is known to be 56,000 people in the government's assembly area. Although we are already in winter, there is no study of winter-resistant permanent housing centres in the region. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Your government has come from Kobani.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0005par0042	Thank you, Mr. Aktaş.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0004par0043	Thank you, Mr. President, let me finish my last sentence.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0005par0044	That's it, that's the way it is. Finish it.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0004par0045	The government must produce policies that will reverse the conflict in our region, civil war, and the growing migration movements. The political structures in Rojava must be established on the basis of friendship, and the human living conditions of all immigrants who come to Turkey in the short term must be improved and restored to international standards. Let us remember that we can protect our borders with human and friendly relationships, not with weapons. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0005par0048	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement is from Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, who asked for a comment on the problems of gas subscribers in Ankara. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0006par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, today I've been promised off-the-tops about the problems of natural gas subscribers. On this occasion, I salute the grand jury. Dear lawmakers, privatisation has two basic goals: one is the increasing efficiency in public enterprises, and the other is the creation of more value in increasing competition. The prevention of public harm is another issue, increasing employment is another goal, providing free competition is another goal. You're going to sell the public company, you're going to privatize it; the owner of the company is not happy, the customers, the citizens are not happy, and the seller has become complaining, and the sales problem has begun. Such privatisation is nowhere in the world. Such a freak is only in the Republic of Turkey, and what is it that AKP governments do during AKP rule? It's a privatisation he approves of. After all, nobody's happy with privatisation. Where the government would protect its citizens from the company, we've investigated that the citizen was trying to tie his hands and open a space for the company. Has the Privatisation Administration granted the company a concession? No. Does the editor's office know about the development? No. The editor-in-chief hears from me, as well as from the institution's top official, that there is no sale of gas above certain amounts of gas to the citizen. Everyone knew in Ankara that before the increase, natural gas was not given above a certain amount. In addition, he's also charged with citizen hoarding. The citizen has no stockpile, plus the average consumption of the citizens over the years seems pretty clear. Another thing, he'll run out of gas in the middle of the night! He will go to Maltepe, and the taxi money will be more than gas, and he will try to get gas, if they give it to him. It's obvious what I've been getting for about 20 years, it's average, it's obvious how much I've consumed, and so have the citizens. What kind of hoarder do you think citizens can be? I have serious concerns. They need to tell a society about this. Now, the citizen has agreed. He got a ten percent raise later, after the raise. Everyone was loaded with the cost of the citizen. What did he do? He waited for my raise, in fact, and so will the other citizens. After that, let's just say your meter's dead. You're giving me an address. You are not present at this address. You're going to go to the ground, and then you're going to do this, and you're going to fix the address on the ground. We told them: "My house hasn't changed, it's in the same place. No new technology has been invented, there's no way to lift up this house and take it anywhere else. Thanks to them, after a lot of effort, they changed the battery, and we thank those who do. I don't know what we're gonna do next. In free competition, we get gas with our money, they don't. At this time, the battery will change, then the address of the house will be asked, and the house will stand where it stands, and you will go to state the location of the house. Also, in the past, before privatisation, the price differences remained above the treasure. We took a lot of their sins. What's happening now? Summer damage, sorry, writing, citizen pay. They've had an opportunity from the tradesman's position as a complainer, a wise man, and they want the tradesman's gas debt to be tied up in a taxi, but no one's safe. You're privatizing. Why? Let me increase the competition, let me remove the public harm, increase efficiency, increase employment, increase added value, bring quality to the ministry. The citizen can't afford gas, so he gets it after the raise. The Chairman of the Organization doesn't know about this either. In the old days, the treasure was destroyed, and now it's destroyed by the citizen. There's no competition, there's no payout, there's no increase in employment, there's no increase in value. Don't underestimate the law we've made on the basis of privatisation, it's been passed by Parliament's understanding. I thank you, I pay my respects. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0007par0068	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. According to the 60th article, I will make a promise to 10 of our friends. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0008par0073	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, lately -- and also because of this poverty -- society is becoming so incredibly poor, cancer is growing as it becomes poor. Thus, they often make calls, and this is cancer medicine and medicine, and we can't find them in hospitals, in pharmacies, they say. Therefore, we would appreciate it if the relevant ministry would do a study on the removal of these victims. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0009par0076	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0010par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, yesterday was the anniversary of the massacre of respected writer and scientist Ahmet Taner Barrack. Instead of taking lessons after this known murder of radical religious organizations, journalists, writers, scientists, artists, the pressure on intellectuals is increasing, and these people are being targeted. The censorship imposed on Fazil Say (Fazil) is only some of the nine years and ten months in prison for Musa Kart (Moses). Because of the AKP's oppressive and polarizing stance, the public first came to the point of explosion with the Travel Resistance, and now the seeds of hostility planted in the east and southeast are growing, and our people are starting to kill each other. This is an emergency. The government must immediately correct the language it uses, start using the language of peace, and immediately abandon its segregation policies.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0011par0081	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0012par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday was the anniversary of the massacre of Ahmet Taner Barrack, and still no perpetrators were found. I'd like to remind a government who said he was assertive about it, saying that there were no perpetrators left in our time. This is where I honor Ahmet Taner Barracks. Istanbul's lost water rates are highly suspicious. The number of missing fugitives was up to 24 per cent in 2009, while in 2010 it was up to 29 per cent. In the last five years, there has been no reduction in the number of missing fugitives. Furthermore, according to the SSKI's 2013 operational reports, about 30 litres of every 100 litres of water given to the network is lost in illegal use, and they cannot be billed, as in electricity, are burdened on the citizens. In the developed countries, the average rate is about 7 per cent, while Istanbul is about 4 times more. The water has been consumed illegally by some subscribers who consume heavy water, especially in industry and hotels, and...
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0013par0088	Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0014par0090	Mr. President, thank you. We're still talking business killings. On the night of September 6th, 10 workers were killed in the construction of the Grand National Investment Partnership, the construction of the Torun Center. According to today's reports, all administrative and technical personnel are responsible for the investigation by ordering the construction owners not to follow. So those who built this building on the property of the TOKI, which was privileged by the government's rulers, who made a fortune on the bodies, were innocent, and the guilty were workers, experts, and servants. This is actually the logic of the law adopted as a result of the capital's approach to labour health and safety. The boss Saint Grandson, who knows that the elevator that crashed 32 floors down isn't being inspected, that it's malfunctioned, and therefore doesn't use it himself, will continue to expand his fortune without account, but with ten minutes of training... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the young worker who took responsibility for the elevator will continue to lose their lives as well as those like Hidır Ali Young; this account will not end.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0015par0094	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0016par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. In the province of Tokat, the beet producers of Kazova, Zile, Kelkit, Artova region want us to call and ask that the price of beet purchases be lower and the privatisation of sugar factories be removed. Beet production is very expensive, but the price is very inadequate, and even costs can't be met. The farmer is facing harm, executions. In addition, the 2015 budget bill will come to Parliament in the coming days. All sugar factories, especially the Turhal Sugar Factory, must be removed from privatisation, the factories must not be shut down, and beets production must be continued with real incentives. I expect the voice of the people to be heard by the government, and I salute the assembly.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0017par0099	Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0018par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. On 17 October 2014, we wrote a letter to Mr. Cemil Cicek, chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as the 6 CHP MPs of the European Union's Integration Commission. In this letter, we expressed our concern that the proposal for amendments to the Turkish Penal Code and Penal Code would not be brought to the European Union's Compliance Commission. Once again, the European Union's Compliance Commission has been bypassed, as has been in many law proposals and drafts that directly concern the European Union's acquisitor. Persistence in this practice, which has also been criticised in the European Union's 2014 Progress Report, is damaging not only to our democracy, but also to our European Union integration process. Once again, I remind you that Article 3 of the European Union's Integration Commission Act 4847 is to examine the compliance of the European Union's legislation, I invite Mr. Cemil Cicek. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0019par0104	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0020par0106	Mr. President, thank you. Our officer teachers were not appointed teachers because of the regulation issued in one day. And what did that cause? Look at the news in the papers for days, a math teacher in Samsun, who is supposed to be teaching because of this regulation, works as a resident at that school, sits in the janitor's room when he should be sitting in the teacher's room. Our officer teachers call every day and say they want to do this sacred work. I gave the Ministry a written request on this, and they didn't even answer. My request from the Ministry: I demand that these citizens be relieved as soon as possible.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0019par0108	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0021par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. In the 15th year of the massacre of Culture Minister Dr. Ahmet Taner Kışlalı, the MP of İzmir, we honor and cherish him and share his family's suffering once again. Mr. President, the investigation has been completed in the elevator killing of 10 workers today in Mecidiyeköy. The killing of nine people including St. Torun, Yunus Emre Torun, Mehmet Torun, unfortunately, has been ruled untraceable in the crime of killing 10 people in the construction of the Grandad's Real Estate Investment Partnership. Thus, as always, the murder is brought to the bosses, not the real employers, but the managers and the dead. On the other hand, it's seen clearly and clearly by the company where families are offered high, astronomical figures so that they don't shut down and follow the case.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0022par0113	Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0023par0115	Mr. President, it's been a long time since the schools opened, but it appears that the gap remains that there are still no major teachers at many schools. If the teacher's deficit information from e-mails and telephones is correct, then how many teachers are missing from the majors? When will the teacher's gap be repaired at the schools in Çanakkale? On the one hand, we have over 300,000 teachers that you promised to appoint, so why can't this gap be closed? Is there any hope that our teachers who are waiting for the appointment will be appointed soon? Or are you telling our teachers that you can take care of yourself and we won't do anything? Then is it necessary for our teachers to take students to thousands of graduate schools each year? If not, then do you intend to close these schools?
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0022par0116	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0024par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Every day in national education, corruption, corruption, poverty continues. This time, for the first time and with oral examinations of school principals who will be reassigned. The names of those who won the school principal in Muğla are clear before they've been interviewed. Lists from the National Education Directorates are reported to other commissioners through commissioners, and the names listed on the lists are allowed to win the interview. In his interview with the directorate in Muglas, Commission President Milas determined to the commissioners who wanted to work before the commission began, and who would even be assigned to which school. So we're going to give them those points. It's said to be called. The commissioner, Ali Överen, who disapproves of this illegality...
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0022par0121	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We also live in sports as an example of the failed policies of AKP rule. Despite a high turnout for the London Olympic Games, the result is a total failure. Despite the transfer of all authority in sports to the Ministry of Youth and Sports, family policies have been developed instead of state policy, and the only success that has been won is by relatives. The failure of the Olympic table is because the Ministry's pre-Olympics ministry is promoting successful athletes' suspension by heeding all public warnings, and in sports as well as in every field in our country, it's the spread of relatives' torpedo, undisciplined working order. Unfortunate explanation of this debacle has become impossible only as a result of the order created only in the form of a family member to win. The common opinion is that there is no state policy that will allow early discovery of children capable of competing in the Olympics. The fact that the AKP, which has been in power for as long as ten years, has yet to develop a state policy on sports is a result of its lack of understanding in sports as well as in any field. Although our children belong to the Ministry of National Education, the transfer of sports entirely to the Ministry of Youth and Sports is an important factor that triggers failure. Instead of investing in our children, it's a dramatic example of how imported athletes are being directed and sports clubs are not allowed to dry in school, and infrastructure work is not important. Unfortunately, the sports environment in our schools has been unconsciously destroyed because of the AKP's only supporter-thinking policies. Experts say that for Olympic success, the triangle "family, school, youth" must be set up immediately. The fact that we couldn't even remove a graded swimmer in a country surrounded by three seas is a sign of weakness in our sport. The main reason is that education policies are not intended for the plan, for the future and for success. There are no physical places in our schools where children can do the sport they're capable of. Only 7 per cent of almost 60,000 schools in Turkey have a gym. In order to succeed and make our country's flag constantly waveable in Olympic games, these negativitys must be removed, providing infrastructure conditions, determining education policies for the future and success, removing bureaucratic barriers that prevent our children from succeeding. Our children are being crushed under intensive test marathons and put into a major psychological race, almost over their age. Our gifted children who spend most of their time in classrooms under test stress are therefore unexplored, and as a result, their abilities are lost. There are scholarship programmes for successful students all over the world. It is vital that this practice be expanded in order to promote success and evaluate abilities. Through this practice, the skills of our children at an early age can be discovered and supported by the family's life anxiety, so that our successful children can represent our country around the world, along with permanent sports education. With respect to the need to open a parliamentary investigation of the 98th and 104th and 105th Articles of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in order to determine and implement the appropriate state policies in order to determine the reasons for the failures in the Olympic Games, to determine obstacles ahead of sports achievements, to be successful in sports areas. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Scholarship]] [[Niğde]] [[Gaziantep]] 10) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Gaziantep]] 12) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Manisa]] 18) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 20) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Çanakkale]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that a parliamentary research commission be heard in the province of Bitlis, where the unsolved murders, casualties, village evacuations and burnings took place between 1987 and 2000, the governor, the governor, the governor, the senior military commanders, the police chiefs, and those close to the perpetrators, should be heard in a parliamentary research commission, and that the perpetrators be tried by the discovery of their perpetrators. [[Bitlis]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] The recent years of the Ottoman State, and the fact that no serious steps have been taken to address the Kurdish problem and the solution of the problem since the founding of the Republic of Turkey, have been destroying the energy, life, property, demographic of the people of Turkey since the day of its existence. The Kurdish issue was created by dozens of riots. Although most of these riots have been local riots, the country's armed struggle, which has marked the last 30 years, has led to radical changes, especially as the PKK's last and largest Kurdish uprising, which has been adopted by former heads of state, the heads of state, the government, those who represent the state at the highest level. During this demographically damaged war, people of the country, economic and social losses, it is known that from 1987 to the early 2000s, state forces resorted to what is also called dirty warfare techniques. During this period, known as "dirty war," which was carried out under informal military techniques, more than 3 million villages were evacuated and forced to emigrate. In addition, military spending at the time amounted to $150 billion, $450m spent on rangers' salaries, and the European Court of Human Rights fined Turkey $21m. Between 1987 and 2000, the districts of Bitlis were damaged, hundreds of villages were evacuated, thousands of people were forced to leave their homes. In this period, there has been a significant increase in unsolved murders, as well as the use of informal warfare techniques. Looking at the overall qualifications of the victims of unsolved murders and disappearances, they will be seen as targets by state forces at the time, as well as by villagers who were thought to provide logistics and psychological support to the PKK and as well as by Kurdish businessmen, journalists, writers, politicians, intellectuals, union public workers and university students. Both retired soldiers and former high-ranking government officials and state managers often voice that the government had no choice but to consider the unsubstantiated period necessary in the '90s. "The unsolved murders cannot be carried out without the knowledge of the state and the orders of state officials." His opinion has been expressed on various occasions in the media and media bodies of the press. For example, the retired Admiral Attila Atilla stated that he believed that the murders committed in the 1990s could have been committed within the chain of command. However, a few months ago, he was involved in countererilla activities, marking Tansu Çiller, Doğan Wrestler, Mehmet Aghar and İbrahim Şahin as the command center for the murder of former Special Ops member Ayhan Çarak, who was recently involved in Susurlik Skandalı. The words of the former Special Ops (Special Operations) have been declared by İbrahim Şahin in various courts and media organs in which they have "a list of Kurdish businessmen to be killed." In view of the duties of individuals and individuals mentioned above, the administration of a country where the unknown has been committed has not been unaware of these losses and massacres; rather, it is clear that the murders were carried out in accordance with orders given above. In this direction, it is necessary to ensure that those who served in Bitlis, the governor, the governor, the governor, the high-ranking military commanders, the police chiefs, the perpetrators, and the relatives of the unsubs should be heard in a parliamentary investigative commission, exposed and brought before trial by the perpetrators. It is the historical duty of the state of the Republic of Turkey and the Grand National Assembly, which voiced its claim to be a legal state on every national and international platform, to ensure that there will be no more such painful events in the coming days of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Therefore, we, those with his signature below, ask for the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission, in accordance with the request stated above. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since problems in Turkey's prisons have not been resolved and political demands have not been met, actions have been organised from past to present, in order to set prisoners, hunger strikes, their bodies on fire, and to make political demands visible through mass rebellion, to create awareness of prison conditions. Starting on 12 September 2012 with the aim of placing political demands on the agenda, as of today in 34 prisons, more than 300 prisoners are participating in an unchanging hunger strike. In order to prevent the death losses of these indefinitely unchanging hunger strike actions, and to prevent the lack of solutions in the political demands of prisoners in the first degree, and to be a place to find solutions, I would order the opening of the Parliament under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Court of Turkey, in order to provide a road map to the solution. The deepening of problems in prisons, increasing tortures and disregarding the political demands of prisoners, leading prisoners to hunger strikes, burning their bodies and mass rebellions in order to make their voices heard, because there is no other way for the prisoners to make their voices heard. The product of the 1980 military coup, Diyarbakır 5 No. In spite of inhumane practices in Lu Prison, prisoners have revealed many kinds of actions such as not spreading these practices to other prisons, not generalizing them, that the conditions of torture in prison are concentrated and that political demands are suppressed in anti-democratic and illegal ways, and that they set their bodies on fire in order to be announced to the country and the world's public. Mazlum Doğan, Ferhat Kurtay, Necmi Öner, Mahmoud Rich and Eşref Anyik have developed a political style of action by setting their bodies on fire against their pressure policies. Diyarbakır 5 No. The events of Lu Prison have not been erased from social memory for more than 30 years, and the political demands of that period have still been unsolved, and in 1999, the death-orbiting operation, involving inhuman intervention in the Ulicans Prison, in 2000, was carried out by riots that led to the deaths of 13 prisoners in the Urfa Prison. The main objective of political actions in all these prisons is to introduce demands that contain political and social messages. The demands of prisoners involved in continuous, unchanging hunger strike on 12 September 2012 are that the detention of PKK leader Mr Abdullah Ocalan in İmralı Prison, over 430 days, take the necessary steps to fulfill Mr. Ocalan's role in the Kurdish issue, remove all obstacles to education in the main language. These demands related directly to the solution of the Kurdish issue and the launch of the democratisation process in Turkey are clear that the TBM is already late in putting in will. We would like to request a parliamentary inquiry to ensure that the political demands of the prisoners with these actions will open the roads leading to social and political peace in Turkey, in order to prevent the killings in past-age prisons from happening again. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Charter, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Wednesday 22/10/2014 (now) there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. It has been suggested that the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey shall be met together in the Council's 22/10/10/2014-day session of the General Assembly for the launch of a parliamentary investigation into the area and the measures which should be taken by all dimensions of its damage to human health, as well as the planned nuclear power plant in Mersin Akkuyu (10/821). In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, the first statement belongs to Mersin MP Mr. Ertugrul Kürkçı. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0025par0262	Mr. President, dear friends, we don't know this clearly -- in the case of an attempt to build Mersin -- although the environmental impact assessment of the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant was not done, the public talks with the people have not been completed, officials are continuing to build this nuclear power plant. We also submitted a question motion to the Ministry of Forestry. In response to this question motion, the Ministry of Forestry said: "There is no such thing as a prerequisite, so there is nothing that can be done about the nuclear plant here. But we, the Ministry of Forestry, have submitted an environmental impact assessment of mining on nuclear power plant land. So there's mining here, there's no nuclear power plant. Now, of course, it's weird that there's mining in a nuclear plant construction site. They're probably thinking about digging this place up with the wrong direction, finding uranium, but there's no uranium within Turkey's borders, and we all know that. So I think this answer actually shows that the problem is several levels both administratively and politically. Now, yes, like this, there's a matter of procedure here, but let's get to the bottom of this. As the People's Democratic Party, we basically disagree that the construction of nuclear power plants, as it is the head of all ecological resistance movements in Turkey, has nothing to do with the foreseeable needs of nuclear plants, that it will leave a large legacy of pollution to human health, environment, future generations, and that it will open the door to disaster, as it were at the top of all ecological struggle issues in the world. But today we saw the Prime Minister's speech as a great misfortune. The Prime Minister says -- it's unbelievable -- why are we so behind in the world? In just one European country, France has 58-60 nuclear plants, Japan may have exceeded 100-130. We're still waiting. Hopefully in 2023, we'll activate these plants and order them, and I'll build a 100 percent nuclear power plant. Now, I'd be lying if I said I'd heard another conversation where the facts were so twisted, because we all see what's going on in the world. Especially after the Fukushima nuclear power plant accident, Japan shut down 52° of the 54 nuclear plants established in this country, and last year, there was no shortage of energy, but the Prime Minister also throws out an intermittently. 100-130 nuclear plants say it's in Japan. Maybe this is the sum total of the Japanese nuclear power plant industry's trouble with the world's people elsewhere in the world, but that's it, and Japan has given it up. Germany has decided to shut down nuclear plants by 2020. Switzerland will shut down five reactors by 2034. Belgium will wipe out its nuclear program from 2016-2025. Brazil has cancelled its plan to build four nuclear plants by 2030, and the world's general trend of nuclear energy is not to be associated with it in any way. There's no reason to think that those who did this, for example those who suggested it, were more foolish than Ahmet Davutoglu, or those who led Turkey's nuclear politics, because for countries of the world that are leading a certain mass and industrial development, these nuclear plants can be turned away from them, and possible things like Turkey are much more possible for those who have never been on this road. But this nuclear power plant passion, if you want to know the truth, has nothing to do with shutting down the energy gap, because everyone knows that these nuclear power plants are the biggest energy consumers ever thought to be activated to shut down the energy gap. To cool them down, you have to consume close to what they're producing. The damage to the environment is the other thing they're betting on, causing sea water to heat up. But I don't want to laugh more, I say it's ridiculous - Mr. Davutoglu says he's going to build a 100 percent national power plant. And how do you do it? A 100 percent power plant? If you can find uranium from the mine you dug in Akkuyu, perhaps you can. But Turkey does not produce uranium, the main fuel for nuclear plants. So it's like making fun of a person when you say that a power plant that you buy from the outside is 100% national. Justice and Development Party governments' obsession with nationalism is mainly about turning their backs on general trends around the world. I mean, making national disasters look like a national achievement is a challenge in the mouth of AKP speakers. There's nothing and there's nothing for 100 percent in today's world. What matters is that T.C., who lives in this country, is 100% T.C. Will you or will you not provide the health, rights, future of those who are his citizens and the protection of this land, the sea, the air that is 100% ours? That's the point. But he's obsessed, and he'll have to have nuclear power. Why? It's actually what the leaders of the countries who are behind all development are obsessed with, who are bloated with themselves. Whatever the situation is in Pakistan, whatever the situation in Iran is in India is in Turkey; to have enough knowledge and technology to produce a nuclear weapon, to stick under the influence of neighbors and others, to pursue regional sovereignty and power by threatening to blow up the bomb. It's not a coincidence that all the world's developed industries are going after nuclear weapons, the local rulers, the local networks, the networkers, in a hurry to not be able to keep up with them as they turn their backs to the nuclear power plant. Therefore, no one can convince us that this passion for nuclear is about shutting down the energy gap, that Turkey's economic capacity is about increasing its energy capacity. That's out of the question. If that were the case, you would have heard the proposals of the Chamber of Electrical Engineers, which has been working on Turkey's electrical potential for decades as an emergency plan. When you reduce the missing fugitive ratios, you'll see that Turkey's current energy deficit will disappear all at once. Then you wouldn't have cut off the power and left the cities in the dark and invited the nuclear lobby to go to commercial to persuade us to settle for nuclear power plants. So, while we're nearing the road, we'd like our coven to take over. Because it is this nuclear curiosity that only one energy capacity, the waste of renewable energy capacity, instead of the fact that resources are never economical, dangerous, such as nuclear plants, should stop dealing with energy sources that could damage the world in an accident, not just Turkey, but in order to prevent it from pursuing them. Even if all procedures had been followed, even if they had been followed by the CED procedures, other procedures, the tender procedures, the nuclear policy would have been abandoned. It's all about the industry, how you look at development, how you look at progress, how you look at progress. Are you going to plan for the health and destiny of your own people, friendly with nature, in peace with nature, or are you going to plan for the power of the wealthy and the powerful, the power of the plants that have been rushed, the waste of enormous resources? Our House must decide and begin this investigation as soon as possible. I salute you all with love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0026par0270	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. The first word against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal belongs to Mr. Mehmet Shandir. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0027par0274	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Yes, there is an obligation against you, in accordance with the terms of the Civil Code, to be in two favours and two against. As the National Movement Party, we would like to request the establishment of a parliamentary research commission on nuclear plants, especially the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant, in the district of Ulnar, Mersinin Province, Turkey. We also had a discussion here on the 24th of March of 2011, when a proposal for this kind of research was brought up. I find it very necessary, particularly valuable, that all parties, everyone's demands, their sensitivities, their objections, that a research commission be established on this matter, that fears, concerns, accusations, allegations be investigated by the Parliament, and that information be given to the community by the government. If you do good in spite of the people, it will be better for you, even though they fear and dispute and fear. So we demand that this commission be established, and we support those demands as the National Movement Party, and I want to put it at my head. Dear friends, I don't know if you've ever seen them. I suggest you go and see it. In fact, as Congressman of Mersin, I'd like to invite all of you, everyone, anyone interested in this matter. Come and be our guest. Dear friends, I don't know if the camera will show, if it will reach society, please take a look at this corner of heaven. Believe me, I know almost all the coasts of Turkey. I've worked here in these mountains as a forest engineer. Believe me, it will compete with many beautiful parts of Turkey, a more beautiful, untouched paradise corner of this Akkuyu Nuclear Plant. Put four. This paradise that we've dedicated to building nuclear power plants, and by making laws here, in violation of all procedures and regulations, we've submitted to the Russians without contract, is truly the common value of all of us. We can get a lot more out of tourism than we can get from the nuclear power plant here, and we can get a lot more out of tourism. I told you on March 24, 2011, it's not up to power, it's not stubborn. In spite of your stubbornness, you're stuck in the stubbornness of building a nuclear power plant in this paradise corner. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the decision is yours to decide, you will answer for it. I'm speaking to the esteemed officials of the ruling party, the MPs are listening with interest, the AKP Group is packed, thank you very much, I'm not saying anything, thank you for their interest!
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0028par0280	Dream, dream.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0027par0281	But the power will pay for it to this nation. Dear lawmakers, look, I'm telling you, as a human being, you're doing injustice to those people who live in those mountains, trying to earn their livelihood with their teeth and their children. I'm not saying it's unjust, but if you persist, you're being cruel. Those people are very anxious about the claims, concerns, expressions of this nuclear power plant, and what about my right to live? For example, this year, on the 4th of the 6th month, I gave a question motion to Mr. Government, the Ministry of Agriculture, and I said, "The producers here have nuclear residue on food products, agricultural products produced 200km around the nuclear plant. It's a procedure to paste its logo, it's a rule of law, it's a legal obligation." The damage this will do to production, the exports of these agricultural products, makes the people who live here very nervous and nervous. Is there such a thing, Your Honor? Their answer is irrelevant: ▪ There is no such thing in our government. It's not worth anything, it's not worth anything. The person who lives there is afraid, says:.. that the agricultural products that I produce, my citrus, my vegetable, my fruit...... I mean, I repeat, dear MPs, each of you has come from one region, every one of you has its beauty, it has its challenges, but please go and see the labor of the man in the Mersin Mountains of Toros. Mr. Bayraktar in the Black Sea is producing tea, and whatever difficulties he has in producing nuts there, the Yörçüks of the Toros Mountains, and the Turkmen, believe that there is no land between that stone -- he is trying to earn his livelihood by teeth and nails. But this is what he earns, this effort, you're going to produce energy, we're going to build a nuclear plant, we're going to be strong, we're going to be a great state. It's called cruelty. Those people are scared, they say: ▪ Would this nuclear plant damage our products, our labor? As in Chernobyl, sir, when there is a malfunction in the establishment or operating of this nuclear plant, does it bring death, as in Fukushima, in Japan? People ask. Well, now, wouldn't it be better to investigate these questions and inform the community and convince the community, dear lawmakers? What harm would it do if we set up a commission in the House for this? This Parliament has set up a lot of commissions on almost everything, and has researched and answered questions that concern society, which are in social response, right and wrong, and gave information to the community. We've been asking you for years to set up a commission like this, we're asking you for Mersin, we're asking for Turkey, but the government isn't here, the AKP Group doesn't have executives, the lawmakers don't need them, they don't need them. Therefore, I report you to my nation, but the people's troubles are with you because of the fear of being a great finder in the house, but I report you to God. Whatever good you do without the fear of the nation, without the consent of the nation, without the concern of the people living in those mountains, without their consent, you will pay for it to God. The nuclear power plant is necessary, it's not; we've expressed the stance of the National Movement Party every time, and we said: to be a strong state, to be strong in this geography, to have the knowledge of both energy and nuclear technology. There may be nuclear power plants for this, as part of the National Movement Party, but I'm not there. I'm the MP of Mersin, and I know where this plant will be built in Mersin. It's a corner from heaven, and we've protected it as far as we can see, dear lawmakers. I worked in the 1970s. Our villager protected this place, no settlements, no fields here, no openings. This is four places for tourism, a corner from heaven, but you don't have the right to put a nuclear plant in here and turn this place into hell for people. It's not about being in power. It's not the right thing to do, but whatever your motive is, whatever your stubbornness is, let's tell the public about it. So let's set up a parliamentary research commission, work together, take your thesis to the public, take our counter-referencing to the public. If it's people's lives, if it's people's lives, respect for them is a fariza, a necessity, a necessity for all of us. I would like to remind you that I would like to request your support as the National Movement Party to set up this commission. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0029par0286	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, the final statement belongs to Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0030par0290	Mr. President, I have received a letter from the esteemed lawmakers on the Parliament's research motion for nuclear power plants that the People's Democratic Party is scheduled to build in Mersin Akkuyu, and I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, aside from being categorically opposed to nuclear power plants, I would like to say that this nuclear power plant, originally envisioned in Akkuyu, is a situation that should be opposed in terms of the location selection and in terms of the technology used there and in terms of the agreement with Russia. For one thing, in terms of technology, there is a technology that we call WWER-1200 technology. This technology is a technology that hasn't been run yet in the world. In the 23rd century, we discussed this matter in Parliament, and I submitted about 100 questions. Mr. Secretary hasn't responded to or answered any of the questions. These were questions motions passed by scientists. WWER-1200 technology is not reliable technology, it is fixed by the state court's decision in Russia. And I've made the court's decision on this stand, and I've read it. Now, then, our AKP friend said: "Sir, this is a technology that has been run in the world." At last, the court decided it was a police station. I won the case, our AKP friend lost it. I have an article from the Ministry of Energy of Turkey's Atomic Energy: there is no model that operates WWER-1200 types of reactors mentioned in your written text. The model that is currently being established in Akkuyu nuclear plant in the world is not yet a model that has been tried in the world. The first countries to enter the plant business usually predict models that have been tested, tested by the company in nuclear plants. In this respect, once again, as Turkey is already inexperienced in solving problems that may arise here, there is no way that countries outside Russia can solve these problems. Again, here, the deal is not really a do-and-do deal, it's a do-do deal. It's all written by Russia, given in English as a text. It was also given to our Turkish authorities, and it was said: " Translate the Turkish language of this, pass it wherever you pass it and bring it. Let's confirm it. They have signed it as Russia requested. I said from this stand that this agreement on the construction of nuclear power plants in Akkuyu, which was approved by this Parliament -- and I said at that time -- was a treaty of treason against Turkey, and so far the events have justified me. So, there's a deal, there's a deal, there's a trade, there's a purchase. When you read the content of the agreement, there's a whole exchange from the country, but there's no purchase for the country. But on behalf of the Russian companies, there may be a profitable situation. So technology is wrong, technology is reliable, nuclear power plants have no credibility. Again, as I said, the deal is a one-sided deal that smells like total Russian domination, Russian domination. On the other hand, the choice of location, my dear friends, is now, here, where the Akkuyu nuclear plant will be built, in the middle of the Mediterranean, where tourism is very lively. More than half of the tourism revenue in Turkey is obtained from the Mediterranean Region. Here, the agricultural impact has not been calculated, the effects of tourism have not been taken into account. Again, the temperature of Mediterranean water is 31 to 32 degrees Celsius in normal conditions. However, technically, the temperature of the cooling water given to these nuclear power plants is around 28 degrees. While charging the sea, the temperature is around 31-32 degrees Celsius in the U.S. state of California. This shows that normally, standardly, we're going to get from the water -- our shopping temperature -- is the temperature that we normally get from the output of nuclear plants. But when you give him a 31-32, he'll come out 34-35 degrees, and the sea will ruin his life. Sir, it won't contaminate the sea. None of this is true, my dear friends. Now, about addiction, these nuclear power plants, they're going to reduce our addiction if nuclear power is built. My dear friends, now in energy, we depend 80% on Russia in terms of natural gas and oil. Now, if that also comes into play in terms of nuclear power plants, this addiction will find 90 percent. Now, look, when today's Prime Minister, Mr. Davutoglu, is Prime Minister of State -- when he is not Minister of Foreign Affairs -- the Council on Foreign Relations gives an interview to Russia, which clearly states that our dependence on energy -- at that time, our nuclear and gas distribution addiction is not at stake -- has played a restrictive role. He says that our relations with this country, with Russia, are not like our relations with other countries because our relations with this country, with Russia, with Turkish-Russian relations, with Denmark-Russian, Norway-Russian, Canada-Russian relations. Another European country can follow isolationist policies against Russia. Can Turkey do that? I'm asking you to understand Turkey's geographical conditions. If you isolate Russia financially, can Turkey handle it? Unfortunately, we have to accept that fact. Turkey is 75%/80 percent dependent on Russia in energy. We don't want a Russian-American or a Russian-NATO conflict. My dear friends, as you can see, this predicted nuclear power plant is not a cheap energy source, as the AKP government said, but not a reliable source of energy, not a clean source of energy; it is a source of energy based on a license acquired 35 or 40 years ago. Now, Professor Tolga Yarman, who licensed here 35 years ago, says it was wrong at the point where he arrived today, because at that time an Ecemis fault line was unknown from that region. We all know that the explosion at Fukushima is a tsunami caused by the incident of the generation of geophysicists, where a dive-sinking -- my teacher is already there. Now, here's the Ecemis fault line once deep down. There is also a generation of dives that go from Antalya to the Four Ways. It is not right for the political government to attempt to do so today, even though all of this was previously opposed without consideration. Attempts to build a nuclear plant in Akkuyu are synonymous with toilets in a guest room of a house. You've put a toilet in a guest room in a house and built a power plant for Akkuyu, there's nothing wrong with that. I categorically told you all this information, leaving aside your understanding of being with or against nuclear power plants, technically speaking. Today, the world has begun its escape from nuclear power plants. Even in Japan, the Prime Minister thought that he had his head between his two hands as a result of the explosion, and many of the nuclear plants that you're modeling today are plants that were built in the 70s. I think we should give up this love. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do not kill the people of Mersin. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0031par0311	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. The final word against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal belongs to Mr. Mahmut Kozar. Here you go, Mr. Runer.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0032par0315	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the HDP group proposal. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear friends, as you all know, our country is a country in the first place in Europe, after China's 1.5 billion-dollar demand for electricity in the world. In particular, compared to economic growth in the past decade, Turkey is estimated to have increased nearly three times its energy needs in 2002 to 2013, with an increase of approximately 7 per cent yearly energy within Turkey's 2023 vision framework, with an increase of nearly 500 billion kilowatts in 2023. Although Turkey has made very important legal arrangements for all renewable energy sources, as of today, Turkey is welcoming nearly half of our electricity production from natural gas and 72 per cent of total energy from imports. Turkey currently meets its energy needs from local energy sources at 28 per cent. Turkey imports 98 per cent of natural gas, 92 per cent of oil, 20 per cent of coal, and about 60 billion dollars a year, which Turkey has paid for 72% of imports. Despite all legal regulations, even when we use all of Turkey's potential in hydraulics, wind energy, geothermal, biomass, we are able to meet only 50 per cent of the total energy demand in 2023. Our country's first attempt at nuclear energy began in the 1950s. At the point of this nuclear energy initiative that we began in the 1950s with South Korea, unfortunately, South Korea, which began with us in 2010 while Turkey was launching its first nuclear energy work, is currently operating 22 nuclear plants, continuing its work on the deployment of its 23th nuclear power plant. We have the ability to see this not only in countries that need nuclear energy, but in countries that are dependent on it, but also in the richest countries in the world at the point of oil and natural gas. Even in countries like the United States, the largest oil and natural gas producer in the world, the United States, the United Arab Emirates, now 5 in the United Arab Emirates -- the largest in the world, you know, one of the oil and gas producers -- the construction of 2 nuclear power plants is under way. Our dear friends before us specifically mentioned the nuclear accident in Japan. That's right, because of the Fukushima accident in Japan, Japan has shut down many nuclear plants, but we need to remind you that Japan is currently in the process of re-opening about 17 new nuclear plants. Of course, we don't have the ability to evaluate nuclear plants apart from the environment, agriculture and tourism, but when you look at the world's examples, the distance from a nuclear plant in the United States to New York, one of the largest cities in the United States, is about 61 km. Again, I care to share the knowledge that France, one of the most nuclear power plants in the world, with 58 nuclear plants, has about 14 nuclear power plants on a river about 1,000km long and that this plant has taken the refrigeration water from the river and given it back to the river, although it is used in watering water, where it is fished and swimming. Again, I particularly care to share with you the information that there are some 30 places in this river valley of about 14 nuclear plants in France that appeal to tourism on the world cultural heritage list. So here, as there is a problem with exporting agricultural products in countries or areas of nuclear plants, or there is a problem with tourism, the approaches in the world are revealed by examples that there is no response to reality because France now heads the countries that attracts the most tourists in the world. As for the CED report incident, Akkuyu's application to the Ministry of Environment in 2011 was submitted to the Ministry of Environment, prepared to the Ministry of Environment, and the Ministry of Environment first examined the format of the report and requested some corrections in the formats in the reports. Then two reviews and evaluation meetings were held, the shortages of institutions determined by the Commission for Review and Evaluation have been completed, and the latest studies on the final decision on the CED have been completed in accordance with legal procedures this year. As a result, nuclear energy is more than a necessity for our country. The important thing is to use advanced technology on this subject and to keep security at the forefront. The Mersin Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant Project reminds me again that all nuclear power plants planned in Turkey are being handled in this fundamental view, especially now, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0033par0325	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0034par0326	I'll call the number of decisions I need.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0035par0329	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit01spe0034par0330	Okay, fine. There's a request for roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Light, Mr. Shooter, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Pine, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Pavey, Mr. Young, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Sokshi, Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Aygun. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit02spe0034par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 7th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Before the vote of the People's Democratic Party Group, the roll call on demand was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit02spe0036par0007	Let's read the compasses. No, no, don't write fake compasses.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit02spe0037par0008	Sir, time's up, don't take it anymore.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit02spe0034par0010	Yeah, it's closed. Here, let me read these. We've got 181 here, we've got one here. Don't worry, I'll read them now. Osman love See? Here. Mr. Burhan Lamb? Here. Mr. Gürsoy Erol? Here. Okay, 181 here, 3 here, 184; that's it.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit02spe0038par0017	It could be repeat.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit02spe0034par0018	Yeah, there's plenty of meetings. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (22/10/2014), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On Wednesday (April 30, 2014 and 5058), the Council of Mersin MP Ali Öz and his friends, who we have given the presidency of the TBM, has proposed that the talks be held in today's joint session by reading the General Assembly on Wednesday 22/10/2014, in order to determine the reasons for the increase in violence against the woman. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger, and I'd like to ask the members of the group to the rear, if possible, to offer them a cup of tea.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit03spe0034par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 7th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, a recent roll call has been determined that a member of parliament has used multiple votes, in which case there is no sufficient number of meetings.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit03spe0039par0005	Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2014-10-22sit03spe0040par0006	Sir, who used it?
tbmm-2014-10-22sit03spe0034par0007	Therefore, since the second round of roll call was not enough for the meeting...
tbmm-2014-10-22sit03spe0039par0008	Mr. President, before we decide, I'd like to say something.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit03spe0034par0009	Sir?
tbmm-2014-10-22sit03spe0039par0010	Mr. President, you read 181 plus 3 compasses.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit03spe0034par0011	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit03spe0039par0012	You stated that a congressman friend of ours gave a compass and entered the system at the same time. You're not...
tbmm-2014-10-22sit03spe0034par0013	No, well, that's not how it works, we talked about it, Mr. Elitaş, we talked about it in there.
tbmm-2014-10-22sit03spe0041par0014	Who did this trick?
tbmm-2014-10-22sit03spe0034par0015	On Thursday (October 23rd 2014), the decision to discuss other tasks from the commissions, in order to meet with the laws and proposals of the law, is at 14 p.m., according to the decision made on Thursday (October 23rd 2014). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
