tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 53rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to İstanbul MP Ismet Ulma, who wants to speak on behalf of the anniversary of the martyrship of Hazreti Ali. Here you go, Mr. Flying.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Hicri 40, Miladi 661; the morning prayer at the Kaffe mosque of Iraq, at the altar, by Hazreti Ali, Ibni Mulcem...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0001par0015	Mr. Flying, just a second... Congressmans, if we remain silent, we can understand the speaker better. Here, Mr. Flying, I'll add it to your time.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0003par0018	Hicri 40, Miladi 661, was killed in the central mosque of today's Iraqi Küfe by Seyyidi Şüheda Hazreti Ali, Ibni Mulcem, who was shot in the head with a sword. As soon as his Lord Ali took the blow, he said, "I swear by the Lord of the House. I have won." Because Ali's life, his principles, his stance, his attitude, his mercy language, which he uses, is a mebnical language and adds: "Galip is defeated on this road." There are many things that can be transferred from Hazreti Ali to our present civilization, from his Shah, from Merdan, and from Seyphullah, and from Tedrist to our present day. But, dear friends, I'd like to share five with you. As soon as the Holy Prophet is charged with the notification, before it's spread out, before it's announced to anyone, he asks what they're doing at home, and Hazreti Ali, who watches the movement of the Holy Prophet's line, asks what they're doing, saying they're praying. When he said that he wanted to attend the meeting, he asked his father, Lord Ali, his uncle Ali, his nephew, his son-in-law Ali, his brother-in-law, to ask him after he had emigrated. He didn't ask anyone when God created me when he was a child. He will say, "I do not have to ask anyone else to submit to the Lord of the worlds. He will confirm Our Messenger when no one has heard the message, and he will be one of the first Muslims." He is the first Muslim to follow the holy Hatice. To be Ali means to be a believer, to be a believer, to be a person of attitude. Second, dear friends, you know, when our Prophet emigrated from Mecca to Medina, in 622, he ordered the pagans of Mecca to lie in bed with Ali. And Ali resteth in the bed of our prophet, without hesitation. In the midst of any plague, our prophet lies in the bed of the prophet, as if there were a prophet there. For some time, the Prophet's enemies around him may not realize that the Prophet had emigrated. In that sense, being Christ Ali means surrendering to a cause, surrendering to a cause, for a cause. Third: He is one of the first in the squares in the battle of God Ali Badr. In particular, Fort Hayber doesn't fall. I will give the banner to such a person tomorrow that victory will become a mujasser. In that way, being Ali means being a hero. And my dear friends, after the death of our Prophet, the family position, the environmental conditions, the caliph of the Lord Ali, but you can appreciate that in the community of that day, the leaders of the people would not choose Hazreti Ali, but Abu Bakir. Lord Ali never supports these and the current caliphs without dignity, and in that sense... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...it means that a person can second-guess and ignore personal interests in the face of social interests... to be Ali is to sacrifice himself for the greater cause. Yes, dear friends, it's not possible to finish talking about Lord Ali, but we're out of time. I salute the General Assembly with respect, love, and conversation. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0004par0028	Thank you, Mr. Flying. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk, who wants to speak on the occasion of the week of Justice and Democracy. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0005par0033	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-top promise today due to Justice and Democracy Week between the murders of Uður Mumcu and Gaffar Okkan, who were murdered on January 24, 1993, and Professor Muammar Aksoy, who was murdered on January 31, 1990. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we all know that today's events were actually expressed by Uður Mumcu in the late 1980s by really brave journalist, investigative writer Uğur Mumcu. Both Uður Mumcu and Gaffar Okkan and Muammar Aksoy were truly enlightened in the sense that they believed in all sorts of regression and democracy against violence. It's been a long time since they were slaughtered, but those behind them weren't caught by the real massacrers, just the shooters. They were made to look like they were being tried. In fact, why was Uður Mumcu killed, why were Özge and Free Mumcu orphaned, and why was Güldal Mumcu widowed? The answers to these questions have not yet been given. After him, why was Diyarbakır Police Commissioner Gaffar Okkan murdered? Again, Muammar Aksoy, the true scientist, the Ataturkist and the scientist who believed in democracy, why was Muammar Aksoy murdered? We haven't been able to answer those questions yet. In fact, the state of law is a state without political killings left behind. There shouldn't be unexplained events in the legal state. But even after a long time of their slaughter, the facts of these real unsolved political murders have not been investigated. Now, I would like to give you a few examples of what Uður Mumcu wrote on that date, and perhaps a clue as to why they were murdered. Mr. Ugur Mumcu says that in democracies, those who believe in democracy believe that injustice to one person in a society is done to the entire community. Again, Uğur Mumcu wrote in 1975 that authorities who wanted to make a means of oppression of law enforcement forces wanted to put a mortgage on the consciences of jurisprudence in every country; in such times, law was replaced by illegal judgments and fears. The law must no longer be a tool for political feuds. It says in the 1978s. Again, the basic rule for a state of law is that legal institutions can and can carry out their basic functions. Political pressure on the courts is especially intense at extraordinary times, says Ugur Mumcu. Again, in an article he wrote in 1978, the state of law or no state, political concerns end at the gates of the court. In 1981, Ugur Mumcu wrote: "The first of these three legs is the judge, the second is the prosecutor, the third is the lawyer. If one of these three legs of justice is damaged, there is no way to uphold justice, Ugur Mumcu says. Another fact proved in a 1981 article by Ugur Mumcu is the indispensable presence and importance of the legal state system. Every country that has been damaged by the state of law has its destiny to face turmoil, tyranny, dictatorships. The legal state is the common guarantee of unions, parties and institutions as well as of individuals. There is no mention of democracy and the state of law in a country if the judiciary is not independent in 1988, Ugur Mumcu says. Again, the state of law and judicial security are necessary for all. One day, as well as the ordinary citizen, he wrote in 1989, it is necessary for presidents, prime ministers, ministers, chiefs of staff, and generals. Today we live in shame that these unsolved political murders have not been illuminated. The basic duty of this Parliament is to shed light on the darkness of our history. I believe it will be done some day. With this belief, I honor and cherish those who were murdered in all political killings, who had been murdered by Muammar Aksoy, Gaffar Okkan, Gün Sazak, and political thoughts from right to left and from left and from left and from right and from left, and from left and from right and from right to left, and from now on, I remember with mercy our historical duty to them, and I believe we will certainly do it -- our duty to clarify our historical duty to them. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0006par0045	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, who asked about Denizli. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0007par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have received another non-responsibility statement regarding Denizli Province. I hereby salute the grand jury. The economic and social problems of the naval province are increasing. We're dealing with major social problems. In spite of the increase in employment, unemployment is at stake. One of them is the problem of living in different ways. Our industrialist can't find a professional labor force. Even our ruling businessmen are saying that in a very intense way. One of the most important problems in social space is that Denizli is one of the most important cities in which divorces have increased. This event shakes Denizli County, leads to future concerns. The family union is being damaged, it's getting into trouble, and it's really, really a big problem right in front of us. In other words, the demand for help is increasing with those in need of help in the social community. In our economic life, there are problems with the economic policies of power and policies against Denizli, and they continue to grow. The number of executive agencies in the sea -- as we always say -- has risen from two to nine. The foreclosures are increasing, increasing due to failure to pay the debt. And the credit cards that are perts, they don't have an account, they're really going up. In encouraging Denizli, the AKP didn't make him smell a penny. The delegations came to Ankara. Go to my father. After all, trouble has arisen in Denizli. When the water hits the stream, the frog cracks his eyes. The minister of encouragement has also been appointed -- we congratulate you -- from Denizli, to the head of the encouragement. We're hoping it'll happen after this, but it seems a little difficult. The chairman of Denizli's Chamber of Industry says: "The new investment has not been struck by nails in Denizli for nine years. " Maybe the parallel state is encouraging him to invest in America, I don't know. Our Denizli minister says taxes and raises won't increase inflation; it's called curvature speculative, everything will fall back into place after the election, a good-for-nothing economic flu. These are really far from realistic. This does not satisfy the pessimism of the seaman. In the economic world, the lightest expression about Denizli was ridiculed. Like the mermaids, we're sad as Denizli. The government was saying that we have no aim. The 2014 program shows 1.98. According to the president of the Central Bank, the year would be 1,92. After the election, he sits down. It means we'll sit for two and a half months and do nothing. The movement in the fight is not about December 17th. Says one Deputy Prime Minister, the government; others say different things. In the social community, our religious citizens experience a fear in Denizli. They say: 'Are we going to suffer the wrath of the government, just as we did the other congregations?' In local politics, the AKP stands by transfers. It started on the first day, with the city council and the city council, which means the local government has been taken over by deception and decisa. You can't legally accept the management of these things. Because why? They began to trouble the seaman. There's been a lot of bearding from the city council lately. We call this government the government. They were trying not to increase interest by fear, but we see that they're going to increase interest, and the Central Bank has begun to declare that this weapon will be used. We're 24 a.m. We were wondering what the Central Bank would do at 00, and it turns out that the U.S. imported board member can only come at that time. What are we gonna do? As a Turkish nation, we'll wait for him at night, and we'll see what comes out. Your inflation goal has changed, all your goals have changed. The seaman's in trouble, he's really in trouble. We hope these will be repaired, we hope. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0008par0062	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Before we go on the agenda, Mr. Vural, you have a request for a word. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0009par0065	Sir, on behalf of our group, Mr. Ali Torlak will deliver a message if you'll excuse me. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0008par0067	Here you go, Mr. Torlak.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0010par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, on January 26, 2014, when the National Movement Party Esenyurt opened our electoral centre, I humbly and gratefully commemorate my next of kin, Genghis Akyal of Yusufiye. My condolences to the Turkish nation. The government must find and hand over murderers to the State Department. This attack was committed on Turkish democracy, and it must not be forgotten that as the National Movement Party and Turkish nationalists, it will never act outside democracy and our trust in the judiciary will continue. On this occasion, I give thanks and respects to all our friends, the Istanbulians, who attended our funeral.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0011par0074	Thank you. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0012par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, as of yesterday, we offer our nine citizens, who went from Van to Ankara and died in a car accident near Sivas, Allah's mercy and his condolences to their relatives. We wish our 30 citizens who were injured in the same accident an immediate recovery. We want to stress that the work needed to be done as soon as possible to prevent traffic accidents from becoming fate is one of the most important tasks before this Parliament. Again, we would like to say that we find the attack on Istanbul's National Movement Party office last Sunday that caused the death of one party employee unacceptable as a party group. We have made it clear that this attack was an intervention towards democratic politics. In connection with this attack, we condemn those who try to connect our organization or our party. Our party, the loudest voice of democratic politics in Turkey, is a party based on politics instead of violence. In the future, we invite all political parties and agencies to be careful of such provocations, and we call on politicians to stop projecting and be careful. We invite the government and the Home Office to immediately clarify all the details of this murder and bring the perpetrators to justice. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0013par0081	Thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0014par0084	Thank you. Mr. President, of the first Muslims, the sword of Islam, the symbol of honesty, justice, courage. On the anniversary of his death, we honor and cherish him as the Republican People's Party Group. I would like to take this opportunity to present a sentence from the General Assembly's letter to the Egyptian governor of the era, which could be an example to humanity even today. In that letter, God Ali says: "Be kind to people. They are either your brother in religion or your kind in creation. Again, on 26 January, an attack was launched on the election office of the National Movement Party in Esenyurt. As a result of this attack, a brother named Genghis Yücel Akyıldız died. We strongly condemn this attack as the Republican People's Party Group. We demand the capture of the perpetrators, the immediate completion of the investigation, from Mr. Home Secretary. We ask for the patience and condolences of the family of Mr. Yıldırım, who has arrived at the National Party of Action, Mr. Ali Torlak, and His Majesty's mercy. In the car accident yesterday, I ask God's mercy for nine of our citizens who lost their lives in a moving vehicle. My condolences to their families, to the Sivasians, and to the relatives of our citizens who have lost their lives. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0015par0090	Thank you. Dear Line...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0016par0093	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've been promised to express my regrets in the same way. We find the incident that took place in Istanbul's Esenyurt district on Sunday unacceptable, and we condemn it, and we strongly condemn it on behalf of my group. I wish Allah's mercy on Genghis Akyıldım, the Istanbul Press Advisor who lost his life in the incident, and immediate healing for the wounded. We hereby convey our condolences and regrets to the National Party of Action. I also condemn the attack on the Şisli City Hall. In these days, when we're preparing for elections, I wish these kinds of acts that are against democracy would never happen again and that elections would be conducted in a sound and healthy manner. I also extend my condolences to the families and citizens of our citizens who died in the accident on the bus from Sivas, and to those who have lost their lives, and to those who have lost their lives, I wish God's mercy. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0017par0098	Thank you. We, as the Court, ask that the election process be conducted without violence, in accordance with democratic principles and principles, and in respect of different opinions. In this regard, we condemn Sunday's attack on the election office of the National Movement Party in Esenyurt district of İstanbul. We wish God's mercy to our citizen who lost his life in this attack, our condolences to his family and to the National Party of Action. We also say it is impossible for us to accept violent actions in the same context as Istanbul's Şişli, Hakkari Çukurca and Van. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda now. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman We propose a parliamentary examination of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution in connection with the milk being distributed to students in elementary schools. 1) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] 2) Fatma Nur Serker [[İstanbul]] [[Bolu]] [[Edirne]] [[Sakarya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 13) Ali Man Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] 16) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 22) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 23) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] On May 2, 2012, poisonings took place in Diyarbakır, Sivas, Antalya, Kırıkkale and Edirne, as part of the School Milk Mind Cube Project jointly run by the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Food Agriculture and Animalism and Health. The tender conditions for milk causing poisoning cases indicate no TSE document requirements. The School Milk Mind Cube Project will include all of our country's elementary schools, and the first day of distribution of poisonings will require a review of the tender requirement. For these reasons, a parliamentary investigation into the School Milk Mind Cube Project is required. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition, we would like to announce the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution to investigate the WikiLeaks documents issued at the US Embassy concerning the Ergenekon Briefing. 1) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Tunceli]] 7) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 8) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Antalya]] 16) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 17) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İzmir]] 19) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 20) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Bolu]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] The WikiLeaks documents, which began to be published on 28 November 2010, shocked the world. These documents provide detailed information on US relations with world countries. A total of 251,287 US State Department correspondence was published from December 28, 1966 to February 28, 2010. Among these documents published are 7,918 documents, and the Ankara Embassy is ranked second after Washington. After the release of the documents, the White House announced that the documents were real and that the correspondence did not mean the foreign policy of the United States. The statement also expressed a condemned wish to publish documents concerning the security of the country, to ensure that relations with the allies remain intact. In his statement, Foreign Minister Hillary Clinton stated that the disclosure of documents was an attack on the international community. Clinton also praised US diplomats for carrying out the tasks they expected of them. The British Department of Defence has also sent a statement to media agencies concerning documents, expressing its sensitivity to documents. The British Department of Defense has asked the press for advice before the release of the documents. "Turkey: Police remove the curtain on Ergenekon investigation," according to WikiLeaks documents dated 24/11/2008. Sent by Daniel O'Grady from the US Embassy on the topic, the crypt said Turkish police gave a detailed briefing to the US Embassy on November 21st concerning the Ergenekon investigation. The same document states Turkish police, as well as RA and political advisers. The document also states that the presentation is strong, that police briefing officers have strong evidence to convict the Ergenekon defendants, that they are afraid of the position of the judiciary, and that they expect an open or sandy support from the U.S. government. Another crypto sent by Daniel O'Grady, dated 02/06/2009, states that the Turkish police had given them a briefing again on 29 May, where Turkish police reported that they had prepared a third Ergenekon indictment. The briefing was reportedly referred to as Ufuk Ersoy Yavuz, director of the Department of International Relations and Analysis of counterterrorism and intelligence. The answer given by the Interior Ministry on March 29, 2012, to the earlier question motion on the matter, was stated that it was not briefed by officials. In his statement, AKP Vice President Huseyin Çelik declared that there was no briefing. "A police officer may have met on his own." He used his statement. In WikiLeaks documents, which have sparked major controversy in the world, it is important to reveal the facts about the issues mentioned above. It is important for the country's security to investigate whether an investigation carried out within the country had been forwarded to foreign embassies in detail. For these reasons, a parliamentary investigation must be launched. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, we need to establish the concrete data and scientific knowledge of how large the unsecured working force constitutes a large percentage of household workers, to identify the workforce in this area as quantumity and quality, to examine the statistics of business accidents, to examine the world examples, to report how the problems in this area are legally solved, to open the Parliamentary Commission, to consider the proposals of trade unions and women organisations working in this area, to open a parliamentary research commission for solutions. [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] As with every crisis of capitalism, the world's deepening economic crisis strikes the poorest, the laborer and the unemployed. With the government's liberal policies in the economy in Turkey, the working class is increasingly condemned to unsafe, unhealthy conditions. In this area, there are often household workers and household axed workers whose labor is often ignored and whose inequality is even deeper. Almost all of these people are women. Unfortunately in Turkey, women who work in households for cleaners, caretakers, or at home shoes, handbags, various industrial arms are virtually out of commission. The state has no national database of how many people work on this subject, what conditions they work on. However, according to the Imec Women's Union, which operates in this area, the number is hundreds of thousands. Neoliberal policies shoot women with a home axis, which we can call "deceived" that most require special policies. Feeding on social gender inequality, poverty and the lack of security of working life, lack of rules, negative flexibility lead to the fact that women's labor is considered cheap labor, or even free labor. There are no legal regulations and guarantees for household-axis employees in Turkey. First, it is necessary to define "housework" and "housework" by law. It is evident that most of these women who have been offered a choice for voluntary insurance do not resolve the problem, given that their fee is not limited and that there is no continuity in their work. On the other hand, these women suffer accidents that result in death because they have no guarantees. There is no way that they can go to a government institution that can solve this problem, or legally search for rights in front of Mobbbing, or abuse in the homes where they work. On the other hand, home-axis workers have meniscus, hernias and necks as occupational disease, asthma, muscle ruptures, stress-related diseases. These preventable diseases stem from the lack of occupational health and safety measures. The control mechanism for all companies is not implemented on home-axis working conditions. Because of the way it works, no business standards are another important problem. ILO's 189. It is an important step to resolve the problem if the contract of "human work for domestic workers" is approved by the government and the internal law is regulated according to this contract. As in France's example, it can be covered as social security by applying a paycheck to day-to-day home workers. In France, a home worker is paid by pay cheques that can be easily reached from a newsstand or from a grocery store. As the bank cashes a check, the employee is also registered and the insurance premiums are cut. Insurance premiums should be a symbolic amount, though insurance premiums can't be prevented from being cut or cut by home workers. The government has passed a law on premium incentives for certain groups over and over again. Again, a similar law can be passed, allowing home workers' insurance premiums to be covered by the state for at least five years until the system is established. The home-axis work remains, unfortunately, an area that has no legal place and has no standard in practice because it does not fit the standard of classical work and labor. Based on concrete data and scientific knowledge on how much of the unsecured labor force constitutes a large portion of the workforce, we propose that a parliamentary research commission be opened to address the problems of working women in this area by reviewing the statistics of business accidents, the legal resolution of the world's examples, and how to address the problems of women working in this field, and how to address their problems, and how to solve the problems of union and women working in this field. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the People's Economic Initiatives, Human Rights Review and Equality Commissions for Women and Men's Opportunities also fall into membership for lawmakers who are not part of the political party group. It is Monday (February 3rd 2014) at 18 p.m. of non-political party members who want to run for these commissions. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two statements. I'll have it read separately and put it to your votes. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Parliamentary Justice and Interior Commission President and Sinop MP Mehmet Ersoy will be held by the Council of the Council of the Council of Europe on 16 February 2014 in Athens, Greece, and will be presented under the 9th Amendment of the General Assembly on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkish Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek and his delegation will visit Iran to join the 9th General Assembly of the Islamic Co-operation Organization (İSIPAB), which will be held in Tehran from 17 February to 19 February 2014, and will be presented under the 9th Amendment of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it and put it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 28,01,2014 (today), I would like to ask that the following proposal of our group be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's 524th and 532th amendments in "The Bill of Laws and Other Jobs From Commissions" are to be taken to the 4th and 8th places, and other tasks are to be considered according to this order. 28 January 2014 and 04 February 2014 on Tuesday (today) when verbal questions were not discussed; On Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday, it is 14 o'clock on January 31, 2014, 1 and 2 and 3 February 2014. Meeting at 00 p.m., the discussion of the work involved in the agenda's "Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions"; Until Tuesday, January 28, 2014, when the talks were completed until the 380th legislature of the Legislature, in the merger of Tuesday (today), Until the meeting of Wednesday (January 29th 2014), until the meeting of the 63rd Bill of Laws, Until the meeting of Thursday, January 30, 2014, until the meeting of the 162nd Amendment, Until Friday (January 31st 2014) the meeting of the 335th Bill of Law was completed, Until the meeting of Saturday (February 1, 2014), until the meeting of the Law Bill, number 230, was completed, Until Monday, February 2, 2014, when the talks of business were completed until Bill 403, Until Monday (February 3rd 2014) the meeting of the talks of business until Bill 56th, in the merger of Monday (February 3, 2014), It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. At 00 a.m., if the day's schedule is incomplete, until the day's schedule is complete, In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code, the 524 Numbered Bill of Law shall be considered the main law, and its sections shall be as follows: It's recommended. About the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Agency and Missions By the Code of Law and by the Law, by the Law and by the State of the Law. The Bill of the Law for Change [[1/796]] Articles of Sections Articles 1. Articles 1 to 30 2. Articles 31 - 55 3. Articles 56 to 83 · Global Voices 28 4. Articles 84 - 101 5. Chapter 102 - Article 25 [[Interim Article 1 (I.A.)]] The first speaker in favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal is Mehmet Doğan Kubat, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0018par0349	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our group's proposal. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, with our group proposal, changes are being brought in during and during the working hours of the Turkish Grand National Assembly this week, and parliament is recommended to work until next Monday. In the section of the draft and proposals, it is also widely known and expected that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, 524 rows of Family and Social Policy, shall begin its talks today with the agenda of the Law Charter on the Decision of the Organization and its duties and on the Amendment of some Laws. This law is a very comprehensive law. It is recommended to be discussed in five sections, totaling 126 articles. Dear friends, as it is known, our Ministry of Family and Social Policy has proposed very useful regulations in this law to ensure that the services and assistance offered to the disadvantaged parts of our society and to others can be carried out more effectively and efficiently and abroad. Hopefully we'll start these negotiations today. On the other hand, the bill included some important regulations for speeding up the procedure, especially in the Public Contraction Law, number 4734. There are also suggestions to speed up the period of the complaint and follow-up trial phase, to prevent complaints and appeals from being made with saiks other than the purpose of seeking the rights, and to determine and assess some of the problems that have strengthened the completion of business as required in the process of the contract, as well as in the process of conducting the contract. Other than that, there are also important changes in the laws that regulate the duties and powers of the institutions within the Ministry of Transport. One of the most important things, my dear friends -- speculating in public -- is a significant change in the Law on the Editing of Broadcasts, especially in the Internet Environment, and the Fighting of Crimes Through These Broadcasts. When this change comes, it will be enriched, matured, with valuable contributions, with the contribution of our opposition, with the contribution of the groups. But, very briefly at this stage, dear friends, this is the 9th article of Law 5651, and the 9/A clause added to this is an arrangement to protect the victim's rights because of the Internet broadcasts against the rights of the individual. So what's protected here is the victim's right to personality, and those who violate it have the right to appeal. So the arrangement for privacy here, especially in Article 9/A, is extremely appropriate. What we're talking about here, dear friends, is that technology is developing today, and especially given the point that it has reached, we see that sound and images are now installed in the Internet in ten minutes, in five minutes, in computing even the simplest programs on the computer, in a way that is differentiated by a voice that has nothing to do with it, in the way that images are edited, in a way that they're being set up, in a way that they're still continuing to create black propaganda for people. Here, by applying to the executive access provider for the victim's application -- and the fact that it happens in a very short period of time -- is a condition of the job -- to be removed within four hours, if there is a problem with the delay, but to remove it, although the victim who applied for it -- for example, the publication of a very special image of the person's personal life, in the event that it is published in the event of public humiliation. Here's a real or legal person who thinks he's doing a real or legal job, but if he didn't set up a website to trap someone with fake accounts, then you should go up to that person, too, and you should argue against the decision against the decision of the court to stop this from being removed from this site. I mean, if it's not a real or legal person who really thinks he's doing the right thing, if it's not an account, then it's got to stay on this site. It's legal. We've put this burden of proof on the site owner who says it's legal. It's a very proper and accurate arrangement.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0019par0357	Let the court decide.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0018par0358	There'll be a trial, Mr. President. In 24 hours, it's already been enforced.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0019par0359	Let the court judge the first one. Of course!
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0018par0360	So, in 24 hours, the person will appeal to the court of justice as well, in 48 hours, peace... Mr. President, the administrative procedure will be removed from these other situations, which would be a problem for the administration to be delayed in various institutions as well.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0019par0362	He's an intel guy...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0018par0363	Oh, if it's wrong, it's simple; in 24 hours, the court says: "O administration, your decision is wrong, I lift it." I won't discuss it much, my dear friends, because I hope today we plan to discuss this entire law and chapter one. And when those substances arrive, hopefully, with the help of our opposition, these contributions will be made. I wish that the legal arrangement brought in would benefit our country and our nation, that it would bring benefits, that you would support our proposal, that I salute your great delegation.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0020par0367	Thank you. İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi is the first speaker of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0021par0371	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the proposal of the Justice and Development Party group. I'd like to take this opportunity to make an assessment of the agenda. The Prime Minister said last week that this fetish will pass. Fetret points to a period when the government's power is weakened, Mr. Prime Minister, in other words, the void of governance. In the 12th year of the government's rule, Prime Minister says the government has weakened its power in Turkey, and the government has entered a conquest. Normally, in a democratic state with respect to human rights, the power of government is not a good thing, no one desires it, no one gains from it. But is it really the power of the government, the government, the state, the state, the democracy, the institutions that make democracy, for example, the separation of forces, or the power that the Prime Minister thinks dominates the judiciary with a non-democracy attitude, diminishing its power? Which one does the Prime Minister complain about, that's an important point. What is the situation in Turkey now? We can sum it up in one sentence: The legal state has struck corruption, corruption, corruption claims, the state of the law. Yes, there is indeed a fetish in Turkey, which is that the government's power has been weakened, but the state's power may be weakened, but it's a condition stemming from the government's attack on the principle of dissolution of forces. When you founded the Justice and Development Party in 2001, you said you were on your way to the justice state. In 2002, you were in power by this claim. In the 12th year of your rule, you ruled not justice, but persecution, oppression. When you were in power, you asked your fellow Americans to help you meet with the Chief of Staff of the time, but you did not hesitate to send the Chief of Staff, who you worked with for years in the tenth year of your rule, to prison. You entered the 2002 elections with a full membership project in the European Union, and on 17 December 2004 a membership negotiation schedule from the European Union was received. Fireworks were fired in Ankara in broad daylight, and we were a full member of the European Union ten years later. Hello, Europeans. It wasn't really a full membership, of course, it was a second-rate membership, but it was hidden from the public. Even so, nine years after that December 17, 2004, on its ninth anniversary, a large claim of corruption and bribery was raised on 17 December 2013 in Turkey. It turned out that nine years after your government took a date from the European Union, where it received the negotiating calendar, it was not a full membership in the European Union, but a huge distance from corruption and bribery allegations. Social support for the full membership of the European Union, which peaked on 17 December 2004, is now on the ground. Then, towards the 2007 elections, we had a presidential election crisis. You entered the 2007 elections with the Muslim President project, disrespecting former presidents as if they were not believers, not Muslims. You even ordered a constitution to the professors of the constitution on the subject of the civil constitution. After the November 2007 elections, the European Union project was put on the shelf. In essence, Mr. Prime Minister's intention was to silence not only the army, the judiciary, the universities, the media, the civil society and the intellectuals, who the government thought were opposed by its power, by putting behind it a project such as full membership in the European Union, not the full membership in the European Union. We're leaning on the European Union to clear Turkey of coups and coups and coups, and under the appearance of Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, Oda TV, military espionage and many other cases, you've caused major damage to the institutions I've just counted. Now you're saying that there's a lot of innocent people in there. Yes, there are a lot of innocent people in there, but how are we supposed to believe you? Then, in a group speech, Mr. Prime Minister showed that he could not even tolerate innovative sultans, calling our human being a life - style for 200 years. In Congress, you read the wonderful poems of the great poet Sezai Karakoch. I wish you could read his Mona Roza as sincerely as you can. If only you could read a poem by Cemal Zayaya, such as Nomad, again with the same sincerity. After the elections, after the referendums, you had balconies. I wish you hadn't done those balconies with the pride of a won victory or the frightening joy of defeating others. I wish you could feel humility in those balconies, feel the embrace, the reconciliation. I wish you hadn't built your political life on self-preservation and rematch ambitions, and you wouldn't have forgotten the peace messages from those balcony talks after you got off the balcony. Unfortunately, those balconies you were talking about were not symbols of embrace, peace, freedom, but symbols of pain, death, as in a poem by Sezai Karakoch. Then, in a town in the Aegean, you were startled by a woman who showed her shoebox on the balcony. How can we believe you? You wrote about the police who were acting on your orders during the travel events where six people lost their lives and 11 of our citizens were blinded and thousands of our citizens were injured. You punished them for serving on the prosecutor's orders after December 17th. What happened this winter when you assigned thousands of police officers without question in the apocalypse? When you write epics, it's good, bad when you're in the middle of investigations that touch you. How can we believe you? You put a conglomerate under tax control because he didn't lock the doors of his hotel to refugees who escaped from pepper spray during travel events, and you charge him with punishment after punishment. Because the Society for the Support of Modern Life was not in your opinion, you accepted it as an economic business and requested an institutional tax for the donations he received for the wreath he sent to funerals. On the other hand, you have passed the Peace of Being Law to legitimize illegal gains stemming from Iranian relations. How can we believe you? Today you accuse people of false prophecy, whom you did not doubt their piety, whom you refer to as the Reverend, whom you asked him about, and whom you prayed with. How can we believe you? Instead of law, you made laws based on the concept of sin. You accused the founding leaders of the Republic of drunkenness. You've become the prosecutor of lawless Ergenekon, Sledgehammer and other cases. To draw attention to the unlawfulness of these cases, we are lawyers of these cases. You accused the Republican People's Party of protecting and protecting the coupgers. After December 17, 2013, when the investigations turned to you, you remembered the law, the purity of the law, and the right to a just trial; you held them tightly. How can we believe you? Yesterday, thanks to this government, things are going well in the economy, there is stability in the economy. When you praised the president of TÜSİAD who said, "The dollar went towards $2.4, you accused the president of treason who advised the government with careful sentences. When I praise you, patriot, when I criticize you, traitor. How can we believe you? After December 17th, we'd want you to be a self-criticist, regretting your mistakes, to have come to a democratic line, to believe you, to trust you, to expect democratic breakthroughs, to come to Turkey's agenda, but you destroy all the bridges of trust, all the institutions of democracy, one by one. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0022par0387	Thank you. The second speaker, Müsh MP Sırı Sakık, is in favor of the Justice and Development Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0023par0391	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. We always say that when the mission's over, it's always in our favor. We're actually going to renegotiate a bag of laws in the process, but while we're waiting for freedom in this bag law, the government is moving its agenda to Parliament. However, we always say that we have no chance of implementing freedoms in this country without facing the basic problems of Turkey. Over the past few days, dozens of people have been killed in traffic accidents, from the four sides of Turkey, from Kayseri to Sivas. So we're dealing with a painting of a primitive country. In Kayseri, 21 people lose their lives, 29 people suffer severe injuries, and we see together how we avoid them. The same thing happened yesterday in Sivas. Again, I address those who say that prosperity is so high in this country. With these means of transportation, with this transportation, where in the world can you secure your life? For those who have lost their lives, we ask God's mercy again, we ask their families for patience, we pray for immediate healing for the wounded, but we also invite Parliament to the mission. So there's nothing wrong with us here, nothing wrong with us? And look, so many people are losing their lives. This Parliament could immediately hold a meeting and form a research proposal, a research board. Where there are flaws, where we lack them, these people are losing their lives, and we're not trying to do anything about it. We're trying to avoid it with conventional words and condolences. Right now, I think Parliament should be sensitive about this, really set up a commission, and this commission should go and investigate this crime scene, and do it quickly. Secondly, dear friends, we're talking about freedom and democracy, but if you don't think this painting today has anything to do with freedoms, we'll always be facing these paintings. This is the Law on Political Parties and Elections, and we can't talk about freedoms if the process continues the same way. If you do not abolish private authorities, you will face unjust arrests, unjust punishments, as in Ergenekon, as in Ergenekon, if you do not terminate their duties. We've always said that, and we've made them all sing. Thousands of people are victims and victims of the Anti-Terror Law. Today's special authority has not only been a victim of the courts, but from the founding of the republic to today, yes, because we are governed by different laws, the price has been paid heavily in this country. I don't know who's hand is in whose pocket. Look, the country's been trying to get triggered lately. We're witnessing how stalls are organized all over the country in order to enter into a different election process. I'm calling from here: The government must quickly expose the attack on the member of the National Movement Party in İstanbul. It's the government's job to find out as soon as possible. Because we have information, and we have knowledge. We invite the government to come out and inform us of this as soon as possible and share with us what they have. Third, we also witness how a process has begun against many political parties. We say it loud and clear as BDP: Dear friends, we are having a choice, we are competing with each other in this election process, but no party is the enemy of the other party. We didn't design politics on hostility, and we won't. But unfortunately, I looked at some of the columnists today, and they're bleeding out of their mouths. They're trying to make a public lie about this event in Istanbul to make BDP, to make it look like Kurds, because they're really trying to stretch this country out, by creating laws from blood and designing politics like this. From the past to the present. Look, it was in the papers again yesterday. Five or six years ago, the city buses were thrown into a Molotov, people lost their lives, and there they caught a guy on a motorcycle and ran off with a Molotov. Despite several days, the captured person is clearly shouting: I am an MIT employee. The MIT has assigned me. They have not been investigated, and the latest thing that has been brought to the trial is that the MIT, yes, sends an official article, says this is our employee. Now, in a country, is it the duty of the MIT to slaughter innocent people or to bring people against them? Now, that's what happened in the papers yesterday. We have to go over this. If an MIT guy goes out and dumps a Molotov somewhere, on a city bus or anywhere, we have to think a thousand times. But for some reason, the government doesn't even have a little research into it. What are you guys doing? You're sitting among yourselves, building a law. What are you doing? Look, it's been the last two semesters, 2007, and today, in this time, despite all our efforts, we've invited you to justice, law, equality, but you didn't do what you had to do. In this bag of laws, the Political Parties Act could have been election law, but there isn't. In this bag of laws, unfairly, look, you've taken one quadrillion, 392 trillion, 322 billion dollars. You three parties -- once again, hear me, our people -- one quadrillion 392 trillion dollars; Justice and Development Party, Republican People's Party, that's how much money has been taken from the treasury. Where did all this money go? You took these coins, what did you do? Now, our people don't know about this, but when you get together, you sit down, and you sit down, and you consider the property of the treasure to be your father's farm, and then you go out and talk about honesty and justice and equality and fairness. What's justice, what's equality, what's brotherhood? So you three parties are white people in this country? What did you do with all that money? With all this money, what did you take from this people's treasure and what did you promise this people, and what did you offer them? You didn't offer anything. On that occasion, our whole... The public should know about you, how you make laws out of blood, how you slaughter democracy, how you govern the treasure. That's what we're saying. You must be fair. Justice goes through this Parliament. If there is no justice and law in this Parliament, this Parliament cannot bring justice and justice to the people if it cannot establish justice and law within itself. Now, we're telling you that the process is near, and this sacrifice must be eliminated immediately. With only the Peace and Democracy Party's share of the treasure, you cannot eliminate this injustice, you must protect and protect other political parties, you must not make those political parties beggars at the gates of other conglomerates, and with a fair election system, you must respect the will of the people in this country. Mr. Prime Minister says, from time to time, respect the will of the people, and you say the same thing. And I think we can get you to respect the will of the people, to be fair, and to bring freedom into this country as soon as possible, so together we can build our future together with freedoms. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The money you're taking this semester is 177 trillion, 92 trillion of the CHP, 46 trillion of the MHP.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0024par0405	Add to it according to the law, so as not to misunderstand, citizen.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0023par0406	How?
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0024par0407	We took it under the law.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0025par0408	Please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0023par0409	You've made your own legal arrangement.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0026par0410	They make it up to the law.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0027par0411	This place makes the law, he's telling the truth.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0023par0412	I mean, that's what you do when you come up with the law under false pretenses.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0028par0414	Mr. Sakık, thank you. Suleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, is the second speaker against the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0029par0418	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. I'm here to announce the views of the Nationalist Movement Party against the group's proposal by the Justice and Development Party. Dear MPs, last Sunday the İstanbul Esenyurt National Movement Party's Election Office was attacked by a group of nations and state enemies, Genghis Yücel Akyıld Bey has been martyred, and five of our brothers have been injured. Genghis Akyıldız is the last victim of the National Movement Party's holy cause. The forces that have held dark ambitions for the Turkish nation and its state have targeted the National Movement Party, which has stood firm for forty-four years. What they want is to deter the National Party of Action and the ulterior motive from being committed to the country and its nation. These forces have been on alert for forty-four years and have been attacking for forty-four years. Since the day it was founded, the National Movement Party has not broken down or broken down its firm stance against the peonies of this blood-drinking, parasitic, imperialist forces. There are thousands of Genghis, our conquerors, our Yavuz, our Alparslans, our Asenas in the rear. What will you do against this country, the army dedicated to the nation? You're gonna break each and every one of us? The National Movement Party will patiently retain its common sense so that a citizen's nose doesn't bleed. Because the National Movement Party believes that our brotherhood is above all things, knowing that there is no one to lose. What we're going to tell the evil forces who have seen terror as a political instrument is that the bullet has not hit the Nationalist Movement Party, but the peace and democracy of this country. The government must expose these attackers. Dear lawmakers, there is another pain as much as our heart-bleaching loss, which is the silence and indifference of publishing companies, some publishing organizations that broadcast with people's money. Especially when a government spokesman tries to simplify this issue and put it into a street fight, it's irresponsible, it's disrespectful. The National Movement Party has been on the side of its state and nation for forty-four years. Those who attack with guns are enemies of the state and the nation. He's incapable of even saying that, government spokesman. The media's silence, the government's misdirection, was noted by the Turkish nation and the National Movement Party. We believe that the late Genghis Akyıldıld was martyred by terrorist, dark forces, but the silent media, the government, who is taking it seriously, has once again slaughtered the martyr, Akyıldım. The bandits of the city have lost their heads because of the government's weakness. All our warnings are in the air. That is for the people and for the proud Genghis. His account will surely be questioned before the law, and his followers will surely be punished. We ask for God's mercy on our martyr. We pray that the place be with the martyrs who are right next to the Prophet. We accept the trust of the late Genghis Akyıld Bey as the National Movement Party, while his family, our community, and our beloved nation beg for patience. Dear lawmakers have discussed the HSYK law proposal, which has been as valuable as gold per minute for about twenty-five days. In both the commission and the General Assembly, we have always said that this proposal is contrary to the basic acceptances of the legal state and universal understanding of law, particularly the independence of the judiciary in our Constitution. The opposition has always described the earthquake of theft, corruption, which appeared on December 17th, with ministers, sons, brothers-in-law and relatives. If it were not for the theft operations on December 17th, did the AKP have judgment on its mind; did we have millions of citizens standing at the gates of the court, and were upset about unjust decisions that would bite even the wrongdoer? No, the AKP had no such concerns, but when it reached out to them, to their sons, they began to cry out, as if from judges and prosecutors who persecuted the people, and from security forces who used their duty and powers against the nation, they took action to protect this nation. A perception, a belief that was created, was actually aimed at national will, needed to be prevented. The side TV channels and the newspapers did it without shame, because they were causing it. What they were really worried about was zülfüyüyar, or if he was concerned about his citizen, would the AKP have watched this chaos and confusion in the judiciary until now? Do you expect us to believe that in this snow, 100 or so judges and prosecutors in the winter, the people demand the removal of about 3,000 police officers from their homes, the removal of their children from their schools, the removal of their family integrity? The prime minister and his son, the minister and his sons, were the brothers-in-law, and 100 or so judges and prosecutors were re-designed to the right, thousands of police on the left, and the road to justice was redesigned for Bilal boy. Now I'm ready to testify. Our lord, the judge and the prosecutor, have been recalibrated according to their heart. Dear lawmakers, in which country, the prime minister -- even his son -- can put so many people out of their minds to avoid bringing one person to justice? Opposition parties in parliament have expressed that the HSYK Law has placed dynamite at the foundation of the legal state, while some AKP MPs who want to steal, justify clapping and try to cover these thefts despite all else have attacked, kicked, spoken their fists. Mr. Prime Minister, Eden will find it. He said something like that. I mean, instead of calling these hostile deputies to the general council's location, it doesn't suit national will, it doesn't suit respect, you're ruining the prestige of our party, so instead of warning yourself, it's like he's opened the door of provocations, Mr. Erdogan. The opposition has called a thousand times, O AKP, withdraw this law proposal. It was not for the good of the people, but for the sake of the people. However, when the Prime Minister went to Brussels, he was warned that the proposal was not in line with European legal values. He froze the offer, so Turkey ignored the opposition that constituted national will in the Grand National Assembly, ignoring its sensitivities. A European Union commissioner frowned in Brussels, and the Prime Minister said, "Excuse me." He withdrew the law. Aren't we going to ask, Prime Minister? If your offer was wrong, why have you insisted so far? No, if you think it's true, why give up because the Commissioner of the European Union frowned? Respect for national will, is that what it's like to uphold people's laws? Is the Commissioner of the European Union bigger than this nation? What about the sovereignty rights of your unconditional, unconditional people? What happened to your reign? Mr. Prime Minister, you're not sincere, you can't hide behind any excuse for this surrender. You know as well as I do that we who opposed this law were right to the end, but you listened to the warning from Brussels. You've once again been caught red-handed on how and where you run this country. Dear AKP lawmakers, I wonder, do you have a plan, a schedule for the future of this country? Or do 10-15 people or bureaucrats around the prime minister think for us, prepare the bill, the proposal, bring it to the General Assembly, and we raise our finger? Doesn't it bother you that these laws are brought before you, without being asked, without being consulted? I wonder if he's ignoring the opposition, but is the Prime Minister ignoring you as well? You're bringing in a new soup law, it's soup; it's all relevant, irrelevant. Is he in the service of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the valued lawmakers of public tenders? What's he doing in this law? What promises were made to those who hid themselves within the law? Or where does it say in democracy to put shackles on our people who question you and what you've done? Where's the world going and what are you guys dealing with? Friday, Saturday, Sunday. You say, "That's what you said last week," and then you come on Friday, and we close the shop. You say, "We're closing the shop." Do you really realize what you've done, AKP MPs? You're drifting around like leaves in front of the wind...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0030par0433	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0029par0434	I say that the congressman who can't uphold his own law can't uphold the law of the nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0030par0436	Thank you. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly My main Law Proposal (2/134) has not been discussed and concluded by the Commission since your presidency was transferred to the commission. Under Article 37 of the Turkish National Assembly, I demand and demand that my legal proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda. 02/01/2012 As the bidder, Istanbul MP Hope Oran will speak. Here you go, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0031par0450	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the High Council. In 2011, two and a half years ago, there was an earthquake. Because of this earthquake, some 644 of our citizens were killed and thousands were injured. Among our citizens who lost their lives, we had 68 teachers, 42 of our teachers who were nominated teachers. Our teachers have lost their lives, our candidate teachers have lost their lives, and their contribution has not been made for a month or so, especially to the families of our candidate teachers or to those they are obliged to care for. I mean, there's been a victimization, and it hasn't been solved in two and a half years. As lawmakers, it is our duty as legislators to address the victims, to create solutions, and to present a will to their problems. The Van earthquake is a separate problem, its victims continue, so there's no work there, there's still no food, there's no shelter, there's a water problem, there's a water problem going on. The problem with teachers is that there's a problem with teachers who can't be assigned, there's a problem with candidate teachers, which is also, when you look at them, of course, there's a problem with all the candidates. So, with the impact of the earthquake, we propose this law on these candidate officers to your votes so that there will be no casualties. Of course, our mission is to solve problems, as I've just expressed. There's been an earthquake, a victim. Another earthquake occurred in Turkey, especially on December 17th. There are serious victims here, there's a corruption claim, there's a bribery claim, four ministers resigned, and when you look at it, it's always been in the indictment, and when you look at them, there's a process that's been included up to the Prime Minister's immediate circle. I don't dig deep into this, but it's a matter of interest to all of us. So, like I just said, as a legislature, we need to solve problems, we need to find solutions. Now, in Turkey, when you look at it, there's an actual judicial problem, there's a serious police problem, there's a red tape problem. They're locked in now. I mean, obviously, there's a state crisis going on right now. The economy has reached a very bad point, the economy is on the brink of a precipice. The public is very miserable. So, at this point -- like officers who don't get it -- life, execution, judgment; we have responsibilities at these points, we have to fulfill those responsibilities. In particular, I always remind you of the writing written behind us when I take this stand: "The government is the unconditional nation." I mean, it says here that the government is the Parliament of the National Assembly. It doesn't say that it's unconditional, it says that we're doing the service on their behalf. The writing here does not say that it is also Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's. So we have to act in this consciousness, in our view of events, in this sense of resolution. Now, I said this is the December 17th earthquake. I'm talking to AKP lawmakers here, especially in law enforcement, twice: there's a blind eye, there's a cover-up. You see, in one of Muhammad's comets, the curse of God is on him who takes bribes and bribes in government. Again, on the Day of Judgment, Muhammad is the beloved of God, and the closest person to him is the just ruler of the state. Again, the cruel ruler of the state is the one he is most angry with and keeps away from. I invite you not to do wrong, but to be on the side of the people and to be on the side of the truth. I'll leave this bill to your votes and your conscience. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0032par0459	Thank you. In accordance with the second joke of Article 37 of the Civil Code, it is now in Huseyin Aygün. Here you go, Mr. Ayday.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0033par0463	As Hope Oran points to the victims of 42 of the teachers in Van. The law proposal, which he has made, thinking that it concerns thousands of people in candidate official status, is essentially aimed at resolving an inequality, and calls on the Turkish Grand National Assembly to take a positive step. But in many legislations, as in the motion, eventually, with the AKP's votes, this offer will be rejected, and these talks will only mean something to the Turkish people following us. Now, while we're talking about the drama of 42 people in Van, 42 people who died, lost their lives, and were killed, I'd like to tell you a little bit about what the AKP did in the general area: A secret investigation into the Uludere massacre three years ago revealed that 34 people -- 18 Again, Medeni Yıldırım, a peaceful protester who protested only the construction of police stations and castles in Diyarbakır lice, was killed by fire opened from the police station with large rifles, and this investigation is confidential, and so far no one has ever testified. On December 7th, about 45 days ago, about a month and a half ago, he was killed in a provocative environment -- Mehmet and Veysel Worker -- who were uncles in Turkey's southeastern province -- again, with police bullets, and this file is confidential, not taken from anyone until now. A strange thing happened, by the way, last Sunday, when a citizen who had served two months in prison from Al Qaeda, then was acquitted and had a mosque imam, went on election propaganda. He was about to talk about big guns, and there was going to be a major massacre; security forces barely intervened, and the election tour of AKP Van, who was tried by Al-Qaeda, ended in an event. One more important thing happened in these days, when the problems of the earthquake victims continued and continued the hunger strike. An interview showing what kind of politics the AKP is following in the region was given to the Hurriyet daily by the spokesman Salih Müslim, who was in Montrö, and Hurriyet made a broad statement yesterday of Salih Müslim. This Salih Müslim is not only an individual who represents developments in the Kurds' area of Syria, which is in the area called the PYD spokesman and is an official politician who has been invited to Turkey twice and is officially recognised by the AKP government. In his interview yesterday, Salih Müslim said that the order in Qatar had sent $3 billion so far to finance the war in Syria, and that AKP had received commissions from this exchange through this terrorism, jihad export. Again, Salih Müslim said that jihadists fighting in Syria had studied in Mount Bolu, Turkey. We never knew that, we found out yesterday. We knew that the Turkish army used the mountains of Bolu to train commandos, and it had long been a base for Al Qaeda. Again, there are facilities in Şanlıurfa, where they serve food across the border, according to Salih Müslim. This man, Zerrab (Zerrab), was not only a person who bribed and bribed the AKP's Council of Ministers, but, apparently, had been sent to an Iranian activist, who was now imprisoned for 25 years, to kill America's Ambassador in Saudi Arabia, from a company of his own, or whatever we may say. So there's nothing natural about jihadists, terrorism, that a government that's so intertwined doesn't care about the problems of the victims of the earthquake in Van. Thank you very much, with all due respect.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0034par0474	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Under the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of Bart's MP Yilmaz Tunç and 77 MPs in the 3rd place, where we are left with the Law Proposal and the Justice Commission Report for Changes in Some Laws. Commission? No. It's been postponed. The 4th ranking of Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and National Movement Party Group Chair and MP of İzmir Oktay Vural; the Daktay Vural Proposal for Change in the Anti-Terror Act; the Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and Milliyetian Movement Party's Committee on Law on Law and Order of Law and Orders of Law on the Law and Orders of the Law; the Council of Law on Humanity and the Council of Ministers of Humanity and the Minister of Social Affairs; the Minister of Social Insurance and the Minister of Social Affairs; the Minister of Social Affairs and the Council of Humanity and the Council of Social Affairs; the Minister of Humanity and the Minister of Social Affairs; the Council of Humanity and the Council of Humanity and the Social Affairs; the Council of Humanity and the Council of Human Rights and the Constitution; the Council of Human Rights and the Council of Human Rights and the Constitution; the Council of Human Rights of Humanity and the Social Affairs; the Constitution; the Council of Humanity of Humanity and the Council of Human Rights. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0035par0495	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a point.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0034par0496	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0035par0499	In the Parliamentary Plan and Budget Commission, which you are considering to put on the agenda, there has been no response to my side, despite the violation of Articles 35, 36 and 37, and as of January 8, 2014, it has been announced by me as a member of the Commission. Then, as of January 21, 2014, I submitted a second petition to the Speakership of Parliament as to why my side was not answered. As of today, about two weeks after the Commission talks, the Speaker of Parliament wrote an answer to my side as of 28/01/2014 with his signature, and the answer is said in your article: "There is no action to be done because it has been suppressed and distributed by our presidency as of 524 rows of legislation and proposals, and has been placed on the agenda of the General Assembly. We are now talking about a three-week wait. Although this matter has been reported to the Parliamentary Chair of Parliament in the course of the subcommittee's work, the Parliament's Council of Ministers will not be able to propose law when law proposals have been discussed, although the Parliamentary Court has not considered the objection of a member of parliament, which has been issued in the form of proposals and bill, and has not been made clear to the Parliament's Parliament, which has been issued by violating the matter by violating the Commission's presidential Court's signature, and has not taken into consideration of the Parliament's Parliament's presidential office. (x) 524 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. In response, it says: "The issues considered to be observed in commission work, which are dated 10/04/2012 and dated 59530, have been reported to the presidents of all fellowship commissions." What does it say in this article, Mr. President, that I share it with you?
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0036par0502	What is the result of your objection, Mr. Zozani?
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0035par0503	Let me finish, Mr. President. You have ignored my petitions. As the Presidential Court, I beg you to bear my objection here.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0036par0504	It's not a question of patience, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0035par0505	Look, it says to be careful of regulations in the regulations and regulations of the drafting and fundamentals of the Article 19/12/2005. It says to be observed in the field of lawmaking and technique. This is also stated in the article from the Commission to the Parliamentary Presidency. Look, even this infraction doesn't take into account the Speakership. It is not necessary for us to take into account the regulations on the principles of drafting and fundamentals published in the Official Journal of 2006, says the Commission. Here's the deal, and here's the legislation. Article 1 states the need to be taken into account, the 10th article rules the way the proposals and plans will be prepared. I ask you to consider this violation of the Civil Code, which is the violation of this bill, which is against regulations and the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit01spe0037par0509	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0037par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 53rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 524. [[Continue]] Commission? Here. Government? Here. Congressmans, Mr. Adil Zozani has been objecting to the procedure of Mr. Justice Zozani, who has been acting in violation of the Civil Code during the talks of Bill 524, which we have started to discuss in the Commission. On two separate articles sent to Parliament by Mr. Zozani, he received information from the Presidential, Plan and Budget Commission on the matter, and after the assessment, Mr. Zozani was given a written answer in the form of President Zozani. There is no obstacle to continuing talks on the bill, which has been published and distributed in accordance with the presidential Civil Code. However, I'm going to open up a discussion of procedure in terms of understanding the issue and contributing to the technique of the law. Promises in favor and against...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0038par0012	Against you.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0039par0013	Against you.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0040par0014	Against you.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0041par0015	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0040par0016	Sir, promise me one for each group.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0042par0017	I'll be on your case. Mr. Zozani is against you.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0040par0019	Mr Mehmet Günal, sir, whichever.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0042par0020	Is Mr. Mehmet Günal in favor?
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0043par0021	I asked against you, and if you don't...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0040par0022	It doesn't matter, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0042par0023	Soryya Sadi Bilic is in favor. Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, will you speak?
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0044par0025	I will, sir, against him.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0042par0026	Against you. Now, the first word, in favor of our position, isparta MP Saryya Sadi Bilcç, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0045par0032	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've taken a stand in favour of the procedure debate before we begin negotiations with the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and some laws that have changed. Dear friends, this matter has come to the attention, Mr. President, in the process of the Commission, and these discussions have been made. In the meantime, these objections from Mr. Zozani and the appeals he made to the Speaker of Parliament on this matter include our knowledge. However, as the Commission and as the Presidential Court, I would like to state that the attitude you're taking here right now -- it's true. Mr. Zozani -- who has a fundamental objection -- which he himself has submitted to the Parliamentary Chair -- has also stated in the petition -- that the Commission may accept or reject the bill or proposals referred to to to them in exactly the same way or by changing them -- there is an objection in his statement that they must be discussed separately. However, when we read the continuation of the Article 35, the statement follows:...they can discuss what they see about each other by combining the proposals that were referred to to our Commission as well as the proposals related to this bill. Another objection is that 48 hours is not expected. However, the Commission has carefully observed the 48-hour wait issue, with 48 hours to be expected, and these mergers were made by us. It means I made a commitment in favor of your attitude, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0046par0039	Thank you. Hakkari MP Adil Zozani is about to be held against him. Your time is three minutes. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0047par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bilgiç continued his habit here during the Commission's work. He starts reading from half the sentence, but he reads the previous part by skipping the sentence. Because he knows very well that what they are doing in the Commission is against the 35th Amendment of the Civil Charter; it is also against the 36th Amendment of the Civil Code; it is also against the 37th Amendment of the Civil Law. In addition, it is contrary to the 10th article of the Law on Orders and Originals. Now, one: members of the Commission have made an offer of law during the commission's work, while the proposal and bill are being discussed. They can't offer the law in Article 35. It's called, Mr. President. Number two: This is a violation, although there are some substance abuses in the bill -- that they know very well -- that they are not involved in the bill -- that there are violations, and that is also a violation. We announced this violation in an article to the Speakership as of January 8th. By January 21st, the House President remained silent. On January 21st, we sent the second article. We're holding talks today, we're getting a letter from the Speakership: there's nothing we can do. He's lying down for 21 days; on the 21st day, the Council of Parliament will take the matter on the agenda, the Speaker of Parliament remembers: it's too late. Even if it was a breach, there's nothing I can do. They'll ask the Speaker: "What are you the president of?" You will not observe the work of the assembly, you will not heed the petitions of the MPs; then what do you do? They ask. Twenty-one days standing in front of this article of the Speaker's, why isn't he answering? Why doesn't he ask the Chairman of the Commission, the Presidential Court, to make a request for this irregularity? Why doesn't he check it out? He's waiting because it has to go like this. And I'll tell you one more important thing: it's in the context -- and the Commission says: I'm not interested in the legislation. It says: "It's only in the legislation that the Commission will discuss, or the proposals, or the impact analysis of the plans. Look at Article 110." It is a violation of the Civil Code that the Commission has discussed this clause without an impact analysis. The effect analysis is conditioned by legislation, you'll get an interview, you'll see an impact analysis, it says. Did either of you have an impact analysis on one of your hands? No. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In an environment with all of these violations, if you discuss this bag bill, you will share in the same irregularity, the violation of the Civil Code. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0048par0054	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. Anthalya MP Mehmet Günal. Here you go, Mr. Günal. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0049par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Mr. President, he said it was about to happen, but I'm afraid it's a little hard to be in his favor.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0050par0062	You can do it, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0049par0063	Mr. Intellectual, Mr. Vice President, but even if we really try, our chances of being on the sidelines are hard, Mr. President. We told you up there, and now, once again, there's a mistake in the way we make laws. We said such a bag of laws, we said, "We said, we said, we said a lot of things to you." They say it came out of one ear, but I'm afraid it doesn't look like it's coming from the first. That's how you guys talk, we do what we know. They say. Now, look, there's something this thick. Mr. Secretary has begun with an unfortunate start at the Ministry. We've discriminated against him, and you know that we actually removed some of the Family and Social Policy Ministry's clauses on the thing that came in before the House closed, but now everything's in there. Well, we understand the rush, but why bring it to us? You're in a hurry about the Internet, about the ban. What does the plan have to do with the Budget Commission? What does the Justice Commission do? What does Information, Industry and Technology do?
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0051par0066	Regulation...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0049par0067	So there's no regulatory, there's no organization, there's nothing in the budget. Now, Mr. President, I'm trying to be in your favor, and I'm looking at it, there's no commission report outside the Plan and Budget Commission. Most of these offers have a lot of -- look, there's an exponential -- subcommittee. What if you'd at least waited a little while for the relevant commission to discuss family and social policy, the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission to discuss it and give us some information? You brought him here, about the Internet... at least let the Justice Commission report as a subcommittee with that technology. I mean, what's this rush you're bringing in, I don't get it? A lot of the stuff was added upstairs, and we got another offer. Mr. Unuvar is looking, and I haven't been able to get to his yet, because there are a lot of other issues, and they've got their offer. Let's put this together. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Now, that's not a law-making technique. They're all our dear friends, they're coming, they're putting them together, but half of them are already out, half of them are out in July, and the rest are already in here. That's not going to happen, it's very important. There's got to be something tidy for an impact analysis. If there's a hundred or so items in there that come back, there's dozens of laws involved, there's no such thing as a bag of law techniques. So, in terms of procedure, it's not just about this law, it's about this kind of law-making technique that the Speaker of Parliament needs to review. We, the Plan and Budget Commission, do not want to be the General Directorate of Laws and Decisions and the Office of Laws and Decisions of Parliament. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like these to be sorted out, and then I'd like to thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0052par0073	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Mr. Akif Hamzacebi of İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0053par0076	Mr. President, good lawmakers, what we really need to discuss here is the government's idea of a bag of laws. Unfortunately, the concept of a bag of laws, which should be an exception, which should be applied in emergencies, has now become traditional. The government often resorts to this path, bringing many unrelated arrangements into the same bill or proposal and making them legal. The bill we discussed included a number of unrelated issues in the General Assembly's agenda, from the Law on the Protection of Minors from Müzır Neşriyat, from tax laws to Anadolu Agency, from public tender law to highway privatisation. Such a law technique poses a major problem in the health of the arrangements. A number of different commissions should be discussed in other non-responsive commissions. Again, there is a very important arrangement in this bill. A number of censorship institutions are being brought in, which allow the executive body to be censored, to be limited to the Internet, or, through some regulations, appear to be what we would call the autoshopping of the sector, which will actually be under the government's control. Of course, the secrecy of private life is essential, and everyone has a great role in this, but let's not forget that we are in a state of law and are on the side of international agreements, and that the European Union acquisitor we're trying to become a member of has imposed obligations on Turkey. Again, there's an arrangement missing from this bill. According to Article 18 of the Public Financial Management and Control Law, an analysis table, which will reduce public revenues and increase public costs, must be added to those plans. Again, according to our Constitution, there is no way to discuss plans that will increase budget costs in the year. All these provisions are violated and this bill is spoken here. Of course, there are regulations in the bill that we support as the Republican People's Party, which we find positive, which are involved in the role of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, but look, it's a little unfair to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy to put such positive, supportive, and fast-moving arrangements next to the regulations that can be faced with obstacles. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0054par0084	Thank you. Congressmans, there has been no change in my position as a result of the procedure debate. We'll continue the negotiations where we left off. [[Continue]] The commission is in place. The government is in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 524 rows. In accordance with the decision taken, this bill will be considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Mr. Izzet Çetin has asked for a statement on the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0055par0099	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the entire law of bag number 524, which we are about to begin negotiations with. I salute you all. Dear friends, Mr. Zozani's dissension is a legitimate objection from the ground to the sky. Although the AKP's majority rejects this, it is unacceptable that in recent years, especially when Parliament is open, law enforcement and laws that have nothing to do with governance and law enforcement -- not to make changes to the laws of the law -- is especially within the scope of legislation. The AKP and the Prime Minister consider national will to be their own numerical majority, and the bag is infected with the fact that with the law, each time, it has its own record. And that's one of the manifestations of that disease, whether we're going to call it a bill or a proposal, we're surprised by the Plan and Budget Commission. The fact that most of the issues that have nothing to do with each other have only been discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission as the main commission is already against the law-making technique once and for all. So, even though this has been done to commissions outside the Plan and Budget Commission in Turkey, including the Justice Commission, Interior Commission, Development, Development and Tourism Commission, National Defence Commission, Health, Family, Social Affairs Commission, National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission, even though it has been aired to many commissions outside of the Plan and Budget Commission in Turkey, although it has been done as if it were being aired out or as if it had been aired out, we have not been able to gather because of the density of our labour loads in months, we can't express our opinion. We can't show how many of the AKP commissioners have been able to write, without the information of their opposition committee, how much of law, and how many of the law, how many of the law has been removed from the law, and how its properties, and how many of the law has been removed from the law, and how long since it has been removed. Dear friends, predictability, accessibility and efficiency are the qualities that should be in the law when it's really in the process of implementing them. If there's a bill or a proposal... they just mentioned friends again. In fact, this bill came in violation of the 10th and 17th Articles of the Law on Preparement, as well as the Civil Code. The things that need to be done are very clear. You're privatizing the land roads, and there's been no analysis of the impact, no other procedures, no commissions, no technical commissions in their departments. We have a majority; we do what we want, we get what we want, we get what we want from the commission. Look, my dear friends, we've discussed this for days at the Plan and Budget Commission, until the middle of the night. Even during the talks, the law proposals of several ruling parties lawmakers were added to the law, with one motion, and many of the law proposals made by lawmakers from opposition party groups regarding this Ministry of Family and Social Policy were ignored, and the proposals were ignored. In this regard, really, what needs to be done has not been done. The AKP's use of a specific AKP-like law-making technique, such as the AKP's law-making technique, with the Turkish Grand National Assembly open to rule over the country and the laws that have nothing to do with each other, has undermined the reputation of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The President of the Grand National Assembly has no right or authority to do so. On the contrary, it is the duty of the President of the Grand National Assembly, Mr. Cicek, to employ and invite Parliamentary commissions to work. They haven't been done. Dear friends, really, we Republican People's Party Group have always looked positively at changes to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Ta, we also contributed to the establishment of the First Ministry of Family and Social Policy. We've tried to contribute to every law he's ever made. Because in our society, we've all been involved in efforts to care for disadvantaged groups and bring them into society, to bring them into working life, and we've supported them, but there are a lot of traps in this bill that have nothing to do with the changes in services for disabled and elderly, 36 laws and seven laws that have nothing to do with it. The reason for these traps is obvious, and on December 17th, there is a turning upside down in the country. When it became clear what the Prime Minister and some ministers in his cabinet had done to relatives and children, a panic began. We found that, in such a hurry, new censorship practices are being brought in about the Internet environment, as if it wasn't enough that they oppressed society, dominated the empire of fear -- suddenly -- Mr. Group Vice President just told us. There, we, the Republican People's Party Group, participate in one single clause in 15 articles, which was... when we discussed earlier that economic punishment for economic crimes -- years ago -- we might have been able to make a positive contribution to the section where prison sentences were reduced to fines. However, the AKP's science commissions did not discuss it in accordance with the procedure of bringing it directly to the Plan and Budget Commission, without discussing it in the commissions on technology. It's not right to discuss that technical issue in this bill. Dear friends, of course, the fish will smell from the top. You see, on December 17th, we've been turned upside down, and we've been through this. Don't the ministers' children, family ephemerals get involved in corruption, bribery, and bureaucrats in institutions get involved? Here, look, the 4th article in the bill is about the Anadolu Agency. What's going on at the Anadolu Agency? What is it, Anadolu Agency? Ta, with Law 57, in 1920... Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk will enter the war or the Battle of the Instrument, prepare, have an agency, set up an agency with a phrase. In 1925, the law was adopted, and the state-run Anadolu Agency of 20,000 lira was established. So, what? Then, years passed, in 2005, from the time we dropped 6 zeros, from that 6 zeros, that $20,000 capital dropped to 2 cents, 2 cents of capital re-designed to 20 grand with a General Assembly made in 2005, with an additional $19.999.98 cents. So, what? They're building another General Assembly in the same year, and its capital has been raised to $50,000. When you look at their stocks, a large portion of it, 47 percent of it belongs to the treasury, the remaining 11 per cent -- the third share -- it's obvious, in citizens, who has 42 per cent of it. These need to be found. The state-run Anadolu Agency, which they did in the same year, says: "Let's collect 42 per cent of the shares. " Mr. General Manager, without any legal action... In our civil law, if the ownership is unclear, if it is not determined who has the right to the right to the controversy, the procedure must be carried out, to carry out the matter of the gain, and to care for the stock in accordance with it, in accordance with it, or in accordance with the law. They don't do that. What are they doing? After the General Assembly, the Zatimuhterem spends 25.65 per cent on and registers it on the nominal value, for $12,825. Then they send them to the treasure with a letter or something like that. Dear friends, the procedure is crippled. Now, there's only one reason why this process is being done here: the employees of the Anadolu Agency are civil servants, property of the state. He's doing his expenses with the money he's supposedly paid for a service to the Press and Information General Directorate. Well, because he's a private legal person, we're taking him out of any control, especially under the supervision of the Court and the Public Contraction Agency. This, for one thing, is an unconstitutional arrangement. You can't keep him out of any kind of control. He must be subject to public supervision, subject to court supervision.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0056par0108	His boss is the General Manager.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0055par0109	It's a public institution, a public institution. Why is this happening? He'll be missed. If he's a private legal person, maybe he'll be tolerated, and Mr. General Manager will probably sit on those shares. This is unacceptable, dear friends. Again, dear friends, I'd like to start with the importants, and I'd like to go to the other importants, and there are a lot of issues in the bill. About the privatisation of land roads, what we call highways, bridges, and facilities on the highway. Dear friends, when you actually look at the 110th article, you'd think that a few months ago, when the Prime Minister, Coach-Berry, called off the 5.7 billion tender for the bridges, we'd be traitors. I understand there's work involved here. Now, since the concessions at the time remain in the state, there is no transfer of property, you transfer the right to use it for a period of time, but now the bill they bring is completely against the Constitution. I'm only saying this because it's against the clause. What are they doing? With a new arrangement, they will also start land roads -- a state-owned company in the name of the state. They say -- they will transfer highways, facilities and bridges there, and sell them in the form of public supply, in the form of ownership, until the final share sale is made. Dear friends, road rights are a sacred right for every citizen. Road rights cannot be transferred. Your sale by starting a company is contrary to the Constitution. No one has the right to make such a sale. Highways and bridges are common property of the public, and even if you are to grant the right to use it, its property must remain in the state. Moreover, in this day and age, dear friends, money booths on highways and bridges will work for the company; highways, bridges, facilities, repairs, repairs -- a time of great honey. Now, I say to the Prime Minister, who says that the $5.7 billion circuit is a traitor to Satarsak, that most of your president and members of the Plan and Budget Commission have tried as hard as they can to convince us to make those facilities look small. Either they don't know the truth while they're in there convincing us, or you have a secret agenda about it, and then you can't take over the estate, and then you think, "What am I supposed to do with it?" Dear friends, another arrangement, really, an arrangement for the Public Contraction Agency. And I looked at that arrangement on the Public Contraction Agency, and it came out of 2003, from 2003, when the AKP took power, in 2003, at 2, 2004, at 3, 2005, at 2, 2006, at 2, 2007, at 5, 2008, at 4, 2009, and in 2010, you changed it seven times in the last 2013. A total of 164 articles have been changed, and now, 11 more articles are being changed, and 175 is being changed. If a government changes the Public Contraction Act before every tender, what are the dear friends looking for underneath it? When we say that your ministers' children, your Prime Minister's son and grooms are doing illegal work, misbehaving goods, you get angry, but don't you notice how much you're playing with a tender law? This is not an acceptable procedure. The details will be addressed by our friends in our motions. Dear friends, I'm looking at the exceptions of the Public Contraction Act, Law 4734, only the exceptions have passed three pages. It used to be an eight-point law, and the exceptions were eight jokes, and now it's over three pages. The institution or service of that tender, which is the subject of almost every tender, is being excluded from the Public Contraction Act, to make it rich, to make it rich. This is another form of implementation of the AKP. Dear friends, again, my group's deputy leader has just said, really, in the time of the AKP's rulings, that you let go of the opposition and the opinion, the criticism, the Prime Minister himself, said in his own words that the fallen one would be eliminated, the empire of terror fell upon the country like a nightmare. Now, we're looking, the media and the visual media have been pressured. The prime minister thought it would go well once he formed a social media army of several thousand people, and good things were happening in the social networks. But all of this was just temporary. After December 17th, they brought in the arrangements that would bring censorship to all kinds of communications on social media, almost all over the media, all of a sudden, and they put it into the law. Another big mistake has been made in this law, dear friends, in parentheses, let me tell you about it. This past June, we discussed a bag of laws here, the number of the law, I believe, was 6495. The AKP is making such a big mistake in making laws that they have imposed 26 laws that have been enforced in that law. Friends warned me, they withdrew 26 articles with a motion in the Plan and Budget Commission. They're legalized, they don't even know what they're doing. Now, here's what I'm looking at, this is a technical issue on social media and the Internet. There's either one person or two people in the Plan and Budget Commission who understand this business, including the Minister. We brought our friends, and they said, "Don't do this, because of our restrictions on basic rights and freedoms, on freedom of communication." Open it up to a technical discussion. Let's get together with sides, users. Really, Turkey needs a healthy law on this issue. Let's have a discussion, let's make a law like that. No, sir, we have a majority of us, that's what the Prime Minister wanted, that's how we make this law. Dear friends, really, after December 17th, the Prime Minister entered into a movement of factions. Whatever it takes, I'll save it by blowing and roaring, or else I'll be afraid that this label on my forehead will go with me to my grave. Fear doesn't help at all. The label stuck to your neck. At least don't put this label on Turkey's neck. Don't make me tie it. So let's make this technical issue a law after discussing it with the parties, in accordance with the procedure, in accordance with his technique. Dear friends, a few important issues... one of them, indeed, is the second article of our Constitution, which defines the state of the Republic of Turkey as ▪democratic, secular, social law. Social state means social law, protecting the poor, the needy, the needy, the disadvantaged groups in our society, keeping them under government umbrellas, making them work, reaching a place where they can live humanly. But you're looking at the AKP government, particularly those with mental and mental disabilities who will never have active labor power in their lives, are putting their employment expenses on the unemployment insurance Fund.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0057par0120	We fix it, we fix it, we fix it, we fix it.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0055par0121	The job of this unemployment benefit fund -- workers -- is not to do what the government should do, but to do what the social state should do. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The Labour Minister doesn't know, and some of the government members don't know; it's not right to destroy such a suggestion.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0058par0124	Thank you, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0055par0125	And I'm calling 5,000 foundations in Turkey: Get your foundation workers to apply to AKP, Government, Parliament to become civil servants. I'm inviting everyone to become a civil servant, without any status, without a test. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0058par0128	Mr. Cetin, thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, MP Mustafa Kalaycı will speak. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0059par0132	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the general legislature of Law Bill 524. On this occasion, I salute you all. Last Sunday, during the opening of our Istanbul Esenyurt district electoral co-ordination centre, our country has been martyred by a low attack, and I ask the good man Genghis Yücel Akyıldır to have mercy on Cenab. And thanks to his family, his relatives, and all of our fellow litigators, I wish our wounded friends a speedy recovery. We expect the AKP's government to bring out the murderers, the scoundrels, the prostitutes who committed the foul attack. Dear lawmakers, this bill, which has changed the resolution of 43 different laws and laws, contains regulations on many issues and non-integrations of purpose. As a matter of fact, it is against regulations on the drafting of several legislations that are not connected to them, and the regulatory impact analysis of the bill, which is necessary, according to this regulation, is not prepared. There is also no account for the financial burden of the bill, which must be added to the bill under Law 5018. The regulations in the bill, which are part of the task and expertise of other commissions, are not discussed in the relevant commissions, but also in violation of the Civil Code provisions. Such law-making, legal security policy, more than that, has upset the law itself, which is described as a bag of laws and is common during the AKP period. The AKP's mentality has watered down law enforcement and has not seen any harm in meeting rules, nor in obeying the Constitution, nor in respect of regulations, nor in breaking the laws and regulations. The AKP government also does not care about judicial decisions. As a result of the lawsuits filed by workers working on the highways, the judiciary has decided that they are employees of the General Directorate of Roads, which the Supreme Court has approved, but the AKP government has not implemented these judicial decisions for two and a half years. Although they won the case and applied to the Ministry of Transport, the General Directorate of Highways, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labor, they were not recruited. The subcontractors who worked on the highways recently searched all the provinces for justice. The workers are after their bread, they're after their rights. The AKP's government must respect and fulfill its judicial decisions. The rights of the workers must be given immediately. It's a crime that winning workers are still employed as subcontractors. The AKP government has been violating judicial decisions for two and a half years, openly committing crimes. The subcontractors must be appointed to the staff immediately and immediately before they can be replaced with severance benefits. The bill we're talking about has nothing to do with subcontractor work, which has become the main problem of working life. The AKP government is always distracting subcontractors and always deceiving them. The subcontractors do not have annual paid permits, overtime, overtime, bank promotion, severance, job guarantees, job guarantees, organisational rights and union rights. The wages of subcontractors are not given regularly, they are given rights. The AKP government openly condones this exploitation. On one hand, millions of dollars are hidden in shoe boxes, while workers on the other are sentenced to slavery. On the one hand, they're stacking millions of dollars in cash in their homes, and on the other hand, workers can't even put a bagel in their children's pockets. The growing problems of subcontractors are now to be resolved, working conditions and wages must be improved urgently. This exploitation order must end now. Dear lawmakers, this bill begins with the title "Family and Social Policy", but includes regulations on many issues that have nothing to do with family or social policy. There are 125 articles in this bill, but there's nothing in retirement about people who are looking forward to retirement, and there's nothing in retirement about people who don't have a bonus number of days. These citizens have been seeking their rights for years, awaiting solutions to their problems. In order to be old or retired, an arrangement must be made to compensate for the victims of our citizens who have no opportunity to fill the number of bonus days. The National Movement Party is ready to provide the support and contribution needed to resolve this problem. Again, there are 125 clauses in this bill, but there is no substance to address the problems of our mover tradesman. The movers launched a four-day lockdown in many of our provinces today. The movers, who are looking for a solution to their problems, have decided to take the action out in 15 days if it doesn't pan out. In the meantime, how will Istanbul's need for fruits and vegetables be met, and how will possible price increases be prevented? The government must not be insensitive to this problem. As the National Movement Party, we're always with our mover, and we're prepared to give you all the support we can to solve the problem that's going on. The mover's not a burden, he's a liability. Expensive diesel, high taxes, a thousand kinds of requested documents, and lack of employment have put the movers out of business. Most unemployment can't work. The AKP gives tax-free diesel to those with government, sailors, yachts, planes; the trucker, the taxi driver, the taxi driver, as he does not see the taxi driver, the traffic tickets are brutal to them. Again, there are 125 clauses in this bill, but there's no clause for our black-and-white tradesman and artist who can't pay the rent and taxes of the workplace, and how to pay a large amount of debt from his pension over the years because there's been no social security benefits cut. A tradesman who opens a business, makes it worthwhile, provides jobs for young people is being punished while he should be rewarded. As the National Movement Party, we would like to see that the tradesman and the artist's pensions are not cut off and the debt taken off. Again, there's 125 clauses in this bill, but there's no substance that can't keep up with the price of diesel and fertilizer that's always been raised, that can't afford the product, that can't pay the electricity debt. The basic problem with our farmer is that diesel, fertilizer, electricity, seeds, medicine, food prices are very expensive. During the AKP period, the farmer's entry prices increased four to five times, while the increase in product prices was far below that. The farmer is hurting. Our farmer must be given the opportunity to buy cheap input. For this, taxes from basic entries, especially diesel and fertilizer, should be removed, incentives should be increased, electricity debts must be restructured. While the VAT can't be taken from gemstones and mines such as gold, diamonds, diamonds, and minerals, the AKP government does not think about our farmer. The exception clause for the precious stones and mines of the government bill has been issued in the Commission. The bill does not provide hope for our poor citizens, nor does the provision of over 800,000 elderly people, who are 65 months old because they are in need, raise even five cents a month for our disabled persons, around 550,000, in the ministry of Family and Social Policy. The bill provides general definitions for disabled persons, general foundations and regulations for principles. However, the government does not have an action plan at the point of creating disabled consciousness in Turkey. In our country, about 8.5 million disabled citizens suffer from education, health, employment and transportation in dozens of areas. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy does not know the number of disabled in the field of responsibility today, the obstacle situation, education, health and employment situation. The latest study on the determination of the disabled in Turkey is the research by the State Statistical Institute during the 57th Government of Turkey for Responsors 2002. In all statements made by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, these research results were used in 2002. One of the most important problems of the disabled is unemployment. Employment policies for disabled persons are largely based on quota techniques. The government itself doesn't meet the quota in the public. Furthermore, the protection of the disabled before employment is always neglected. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy, which is responsible for the employment of disabled officers, and even the Ministry of Labor, other public institutions, according to the data of the State Staff Office in June 2013, are also available to the disabled officer's quota. In our current legislation, the definition is translated into the form of the bill, which needs to be used. But no policy is being followed to free those in need from this situation. Turkey appears to be a country that is getting worse and worse in terms of income and living conditions during the AKP period. According to the Finnish Ministry of Family and Social Policy's 2012 Association of Social Aid Statistics, the Integrated Social Services Information System, which is described as an inventory of poverty, includes 6.3 million households and 23 million people living in these households. According to the same bulletin, the amount of households in our country, which, as of January 4, 2013, are less than one-third of the minimum income per person, is 2.5m, and 10m,400. As the ministry publishes these data every six months, the increase in the number of poor will be intimidating, which is now even removed from the website. Again, the Turkish Family Construction Research in Turkey, which the Ministry of Family and Social Policy built face-to-face in 2011, was published on the Internet in February 2013, as well as significant findings of the loss of income distribution of families in our country. Data from the study show that 61.2 per cent of the houses in Turkey are trying to survive on $1,200 per month and below. 78.5% of the households try to live on $1,900 and less. In Turkey, the government has discovered its own lie through its own research on real household income and income distribution. The AKP's government is trying to cover up a grim picture of its work and research through real data, rather than developing policies to ensure revenue-producing and income justice. The dramatic result of these revenue tests and research has been that the AKP government's income per capita has increased to 10,500 dollars. This reminds us of the words of one of our songs: there's $10,500 per person's income in the government of the AKP government, so take care of yourself, there's a rule of the AKP mentality. Precious lawmakers are the head of the laws that have been changed most during the AKP period. So far, there have been many arrangements that allow escape from the public tender system, obstruction of rights-seeking freedom, and the arbitrary practices of tenders, so that the number of jokes added to the article that regulates the exceptions of the Public Contraction Act appears to have reached the letter of this bill and the letters in the alphabet are insufficient. In addition, legal regulations have been made for tenders of billions of dollars, such as the TOKI, the do-and-do, the do-do, the do-orala-revret, the public tender law. In 11 years, the number of regulations that have disabled the public tender system, along with regulations made in other laws, has exceeded 60. The amendments brought in with the bill are capable of raising doubts about how the bids will be evaluated, which may lead to different applications among the tenders on extreme low bids, which will lead to increased suspicions on the tenders. If the tenders are left on one of those willing to bid below the calculated border value, it is expected to be guaranteed by about 15 per cent of the cost. How will the amount of collateral be decided according to what contract or by whom? This arrangement will lead to non-objective practices and inequality. Objections are generally raised to three times the price of appeals. The fee for contesting complaints is increased and the search for rights is blocked financially. More than one administration has the right to receive goods and services to meet its common needs and to combine contracts without a limit on maintenance and repair and without limits on the number of jobs. In this way, a single tender opens the way for billion-dollar jobs to be given to supporters. Honourable lawmakers have made arrangements to pave the way for corruption, as the AKP government does not fight corruption. In public tenders, transparency, competition, equal treatment, credibility, public control and efficient use of resources have been rescinded. Most of the barricades set up in the public tender system in order to avoid favours, bribery, corruption, spouses, friends, allies. The AKP mentality, which has made these arrangements reckless and reckless, is now crying out for corruption allegations. Those who considered themselves untouchable, those who thought that there would be no account against them, are now panicking, trying to cover up allegations of corruption and bribery. Those who seek unconvincing grounds such as the imam-hating school, the university's grants, the money of the villa sold, are now trying to cloud the allegations of bribery and corruption, calling it an external altar, gang, organization. You know, the millions of dollars hidden in shoeboxes, the imam-hating school, the donations to college? I thought it was the money from the villa that sold millions of dollars in cash boxes. What's the matter, you never talk about them? Do not phone records and images show that the Prime Minister, ministers, and their children have been trading bribes, corruption and influence as part of the operation? Weren't the four ministers of the AKP government dismissed because of allegations of bribery and corruption? The construction plans in the file were made with the Prime Minister's approval. The Prime Minister has to resign. Isn't that a government minister who's been relieved of duty? In fact, it is a confession, and it cannot be denied. The external altar, gang, organisation, parallel structure, coup charges and hate speech against certain parts will not cover these claims. The government is not after thieves, but those who catch thieves. In order to close the allegations of bribery and corruption, criminally, the Law of the Judiciary Law has done studies to change the law, to threaten prosecutors, to meet prosecutors' demands, to enforce court decisions, to eliminate the independence and neutrality of the judiciary in the judiciary and law enforcement community. This bill also provides serious restrictions on the use of the Internet on individual rights and freedoms. Under the order of the Telecommunications Communication Chairman, the closure of sites to access is seriously in violation of communications freedom. Essentially, images that will bring down the AKP mentality are sought to block the circulation of corruption and bribery documents on the Internet. But no matter what you do, you won't be able to cover up the allegations of bribery and corruption. You are not too exalted to answer. You'll never be free from accountability, you'll never escape judgment. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0060par0160	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, Mr. Fair Zozani will speak. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0061par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to share with you the opinion of our group on the bag bill. I salute you all. First of all, I'm going to start with the Civil Code violations again. And then I'm going to share our opinions with you about the materials, about the content. Mr. President, look, this is the bill you printed and sent us, bill number 524. And this is the case of the AKP Commission members during the work of the Commission -- the subcommittee and the top Commission -- most of the motions were by the signature of our fellow members of the Council of the Commission.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0062par0168	Mr. Wiseman?
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0063par0169	Yeah, it's heavy...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0061par0170	You have a scholar, you have a Mr. Demiröz, you have a Mr. Bağcı.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0064par0171	Let's not talk mutually, please.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0065par0172	He's not a member of the Court.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0064par0173	Mr. Aslanoglu, please...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0066par0174	Now, I've just said, look, I'm going to share with you an example of a violation of the Civil Code: in the course of the commission's work, when we saw that no more substances could be added through substance violations, the Commission's Presidential Court came up with a new method, and I'm very clear this time by going round the back of the Interior Charter. A 23-point proposal has been made to the Commission, we have not discussed only 23 articles, we have discussed only 1 clause, what are the other 22 articles? The other 22 articles, as in the current bill, have been made, as in "copy paste," which has been attached to it, have been brought to our agenda. Then, with a motion, they withdrew 22 articles, and we had to add one to that. Now, you call it called it a trick, you call it a violation of the Civil Code, you call it a violation of the Law, you call it what you will, and we report it to the Parliamentary Presidency, the Civil Code has been destroyed, the Civil Code has been turned to the ground, it's been drilled, it's broken, it's violated, we call it an intervention. When are we doing this? We're doing it on the first day of the Supreme Commission work, so we haven't discussed the articles yet, we're doing reviews on the Commission in general, we're negotiating. The Speaker is waiting. In the 21st, 15 days later, we applied to you again, Mr. Speaker, why didn't you answer us? We say, "The Speaker is waiting again." The bill is being printed, transferred to Parliament's agenda. Then, today, I get an answer, a math answer. Matbu also says: "There is nothing more I can do because the bill has been transferred to the Parliament's agenda. Let him resign; it is not right that a Parliamentary Speaker should resign immediately, if he cannot co-ordinate his work, if he cannot follow the Parliamentary agenda. The Speaker must resign after this practice. The Speaker of Parliament, who does not care for the House Council, can no longer be Speaker of Parliament; he must resign, or the right thing to do is to state that the Speaker of Parliament is no longer the Speaker of Parliament, but the Park and Garden Manager of Parliament. If he continues in such a manner, then his own decision is his own. It's not for the Speaker to take a congressman's objection so seriously, to take it so seriously. We've just asked you for something, and we've been waiting for an app to go down in the history of this House, and we've been waiting for an attitude that might say, "Stop." Yes, you, today, could have signed an application that could be passed on to Parliamentary history, you could have made such a decision. No, I can't bear to see that the House Council has been drilled and twisted, the commissions have to deal with their own business. You should have said, "No, you should have pulled it off without discussing it." You could have done it, you didn't do it, you gave in to the usual procedure. There's no such irregularity as this. The drilling of the Civil Charter, the violation of the Civil Code, was converted into a teamule during the work of Parliament, and you did so. Therefore, from this day forward, I am returning this Civil Code to you. Now, I declare that this Civil Code is of no use, that there is no judgment for me, on my part -- and at the end of my speech, I am returning to you this Civil Charter, because this is the only thing I have seen in my three years of parliamentary work: there is one thing that is not applied here; it is the Civil Charter. The Parliament operates according to a Civil Code; it does its practices, its work according to the Civil Code; but it is nullified. Therefore, this Civil Code is no longer useful to me. There's no point in reading it over and over again. I'll return it to you, Mr. President. As for the content of the bill, there are materials that we disagree with in many dimensions, that we find incorrect, here. We spoke during the subcommittee work and during the top commission work, but unfortunately, no one listened to us, no one took the objections seriously. Look, there's a law clause here, it's being changed. There's been a change in the duration of the Grand Board of Highway Safety meeting, here. You know what his motive is? The relevant ministry bureaucrat shares with us the reason why this clause was changed during the commission's work, he says: "Sir, Mr. Prime Minister is acting as President of this board. Because of the Prime Minister's busy schedule, the board can't meet every six months. So we have to take this meeting to one a year. I don't exaggerate, I don't mean anything else, I'm expressing the bureaucrat's testimony as it is. Now, according to the Prime Minister's or a minister's work schedule, can the law be regulated? Everyone who thinks clearly says they don't, but we don't have common sense here. Indeed, a law clause is being introduced to the Prime Minister's work schedule, and that's how the motive is explained to us. We object, we say, if the Prime Minister is unable to participate because of his busy schedule. Then come, we'll show you the way, and we'll arrange it like this. We said: "Let the Prime Minister be appointed as deputy prime minister." That's one of the things we've agreed to, so they've made this arrangement. Regarding the Anadolu Agency, our valued representatives have expressed that it is one of the articles we have discussed a lot. We don't understand why you need it, why you bring it here, what it's doing in our bill. There's an arrangement, an arrangement for whom, we don't understand, but it's obvious there's no public arrangement. It's over, it's... it's a question of who you can or can't afford. The Public Contraction Act, again, has been changed again and again and again, continues to be changed. I'm afraid that in the present day, when we're discussing this bill in the General Assembly, there's still going to be new privileges through matter violations at this point, there's going to be more changes at this point, we'll see, in a few days, we'll see that in these studies, we'll see that, too.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0067par0180	Mr. Adil, I'll come to you.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0066par0181	Regarding the unemployment fund, look, it's brought in, it's set up to withdraw 132 billion from the unemployment fund, 3 items in a row. And the last time we forced them, they said, "Yes, that's right, that's why we brought this stuff." At the last moment, they were rescued from here, and the unemployment fund was saved from here. We noticed that the substance was removed. But there are arrangements that can be a precedent, that the unemployment fund will be drawn back and forth, and there will be precedents here. The privatisation of the highways, see, we're very clear and clear -- Mr Hamzacebi has just expressed -- is a violation of the Constitutional Court, which returns from the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court can't condone this. You can't make a law here that hasn't been analyzed, that hasn't been added to the ruler. You can't remove a law clause like that, there's no impact analysis. You're bringing in an arrangement to reduce public revenues. You can't take this off. He'll be back from the Supreme Court. Again, there are very dangerous substances here regarding the safety of these personal data. The TIB will be able to employ contract personnel, so it will take the hackers it finds on the market and run them on its own. Since there are no legal regulations for the safety of personal data in Turkey, I would like you to consider who may have access to personal data, personal data, information. I want you to think about that when you raise your hand on these substances. At least he's under contract...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0068par0185	He's doing...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0069par0186	Mr. Adil, look in the back.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0066par0187	Mr. Commissioner isn't too interested in the matter, so he's not doing anything.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0068par0188	Oh, yeah!
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0066par0189	So, if he had really considered our objections, such a freaky legal arrangement wouldn't have come here. These are very dangerous materials about Internet regulation, about Internet access. Look, another piece of news from an agency can be censored before it reaches the newspaper or the TV. In four hours, a news agency will be interpreted as a violation of personality rights and removed from the site and censored. It's URL-based Internet censorship. I'll put it here because his name is mentioned. For example -- but if he does -- the Anadolu Agency has put a statement on the site from an opposition member of the opposition party or another citizen, and we say that there are people in the government who are involved in corruption, who have set eyes on the poor's poor's bread. It is a violation of the civil rights. The President of TİB will automatically remove this news from the site. Therefore, there are regulations here to block communications freedom. Look, we're not talking about a personal life, not a personal life situation. We never, ever express anything about private life, and we find that that sort of arrangement is correct, but it's a way beyond censorship. When did these applications happen? Look, I'll show you the newspaper samples from 1876. This is the newspaper sample from 1876, which is censored newspaper samples. So what? Where you can see empty columns, they've been censored, and they've been exposed to public information outside of their will, beyond the will of the rulers of that period. I'm showing you a newspaper page dated 1876. Here's the second one: 1876... and this is newspaper leaves, newspaper pages from 1995, when the SS laws were in effect. What were the state security courts saying? It is contrary to the 7th, 8th, 9th, or 6th article of the TMK. What were the papers doing then? He was taking this article out, and writing on the site was censored. He said, "Alan is censored." He said, "Alan is a blank page." I'll give you another example, same dates, that's what it's like. Now, TV channels are censored by the evening speeches of opposition lawmakers, opposition leaders, and we can't give them, so don't be surprised if they say so, because it's the same practice. You're bringing back 1876, you're bringing back the 1990s, that's what you're doing.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0070par0195	Not at all.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0066par0196	If this keeps up, the destination is not good. We're warning you. Mr. President, you know damn well it is.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0070par0198	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0066par0199	That's exactly what's gonna happen. We're entering a time when it's a crime to call a thief a thief. We're going to enter a period where it's free to state that theft is a crime, but it's a crime to call a thief a thief. It won't do you any good, it won't do anyone any good. These arrangements are very dangerous by this size. So he has no place in the law, no place in the regulations. We expect you not to respond to any irregular procedure. We'd like you to think about that while you're still in the middle of the interview, while you're being discussed in general. I don't think you can read all this stuff and study it and control its details. As commissioner, it took us a month, we worked on it for a month. We've prepared opposition in both the Subcommittee and the Supreme Commission, but I can't say that I'm completely in control. The way the bureaucrats brought it in, the ruling committee members signed the motion and spent it here. So I hope you don't say yes to this bill that you don't know what it's going to cost, because if you've done it wrong, you've done something wrong. We've witnessed a lot in that time. Look, when our bureaucrats first came to our agenda -- like the bureaucrats of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy -- they were so insistent on an issue, they said it had to be. A new unit was being formed as a general manager, creating a think tank unit. At that time, Minister Fatma Hawk was benefiting from the creation of Mr. Fatma Şahin. Since they can't figure out what it's going to be because they don't have an impact analysis, when the new Minister arrives, the bureaucrats who are fiercely defending it this time, sir, we want this arrangement removed from the bill's text... Why? I thought you said you had a lot of defense. The ruling MPs, the members of the Commission, you've been defending this a lot. Why are you taking it off? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Sir, the Minister has changed. According to the Minister's change, the state's way of ruling can also change, and we've seen that in these studies. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0071par0207	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. Mr. Zozani did not comply with the Civil Code. You criticised him, but you...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0066par0209	I'll give it to you, Mr. President, I don't need it.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0071par0210	You'll need it. I think if you wait here a minute...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0066par0211	We'll need you to comply with this, and we won't need you if you don't.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0071par0212	Mr. Zozani, I have the Civil Code, thank you, but the Civil Code is not being observed. You have criticised, and we have started a formal discussion. Now, you want to put me in a position to violate the Civil Code. I think it's an internal contradiction. Because I have no authority to take a commission report, a number of people, a proposal or a bill off the agenda, there is no such decree in the Civil Code, but I am returning it to you through the authorities. If I have such authority, show me this in this Civil Code, and I will execute it. Thank you. Officers, please give Zozani the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0072par0215	I can take one, sir, but I'm not on duty, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0071par0216	I'd appreciate it if you could find it.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0073par0217	You're not on duty, Mr. Scholar.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0074par0218	Your Honor, are you on duty?
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0075par0219	I consider myself in charge of this matter, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0076par0220	Now, Izmir MP Hülya Güven will speak on behalf of the individuals. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0077par0223	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of the Parliament have taken a solemn pledge to express my views on the entire Bill of the Law, on behalf of myself, on behalf of the State Department of Family and Social Policy 524, and on the behalf of the State of the Law and Law. When we examine Bill 524, we see that it's completely out of the bag, that it's chaotic, that it reflects the chaotic spirit of your power in this bill. How? Like this, with a draft of the law, which is irrelevant to each other. When you look at it, it's a bill that goes like a five-point pensioner, three-point pensioner, one-point Anadolu Agency, five-point disability, then the Public Contraction Act, the Internet Prohibition, foster care. Does the Minister know if he controls all of these materials? Of course, I don't think he's here either. For all we know, this bill is a bill designed to make all our citizens unhappy, like the bag of laws that have been brought to this day, and we will not have a single citizen who will be happy when the law is passed. Once the objections are raised, you can bring in another bag of bills with new additions, but that'll also lead to unhappy masses. Now, this bill -- let's say -- has still not given up the need to determine the salaries of women who are looking for the disabled, and the need for ownership under its new name. Have you ever looked at the disabled, or do you know that they've been living with the disabled for 24 hours, 365 days, no matter who they are, the caring mother, the father, the aunt, whoever they are? They're not allowed to breathe, they're not insured, they're forced to pay a premium for health care, as they can't get retirement, and they're paying a contribution to medicine and treatment. What's left for him and the disabled he takes care of? Nothing. But strangers are allowed to be looked at for free with this bill again. It is said that it does not cover the entire 700,000 Syrians in our country, but who is taking care of these 700,000 Syrian patients? Shouldn't they and our citizens be given equal rights for the health and safety of all who live in Turkey? Again, when child care is provided, the disability allowance is cut off. The Minister -- if he remembers -- was discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission, and I wonder if it was thought to be studied or how to correct it. In the time that you measure your laws of need, neither the disabled nor the elderly nor the children will ever be able to live humanly with human rights, because the criteria are never objective. You know, the decision is usually between the lips of a person or two. In fact, for 11 years, no one has been able to answer the question of who will care for my child after me. Let's take the domestic transport. The fitness of the vehicles was postponed to 2018. I suppose it was thought that by then, because of the depression they'd be suffering, the disabled and their families would have no desire to go out on the street. There's another way to shut down the disabled. The Prime Minister said all buses and trains would be free. I wonder if it's been checked. Which provinces fit that statement? There's no need to check, but many of the people who apply it again are Republican People's Party municipalities. Can you provide jobs for disabled people? Over the past 11 years, during your rule, according to TİK figures, 150-200,000 people from 1,800,000 disabled people have had jobs. It's always postponed, it's always downsized. First it started at 30,000, then it went down to 20,000, now 1,500-2. It's called a thousand, let's see what time he stays. Now the disabled don't want charity, they want work and they want work. The disabled who had finished their vocational courses for employment have always been exposed because the employer had not been given the necessary infrastructure support, and time has always been delayed. Protected businesses are constantly on the agenda, but there's still no viable legislation. What is brought in today is not practical, because the money for infrastructure is insufficient for the employer. Now, about foster homes. In general, needy relatives and families are considered foster homes. The month they're not paid, they're surprised at what they're going to do, and they're left helplessly in the middle, which is a system that can't be worked properly. Why is there a need to give money to families, disabled people, elderly people? Besides, the payments aren't even minimum wage. Families are always put on the spot. Can't the government do it, too poor? He's not supposed to be poor because there's millions of dollars floating around. It is the right of every citizen living in Turkey to live with a income that will reflect on retirement, receive health care, and make their children read freely, making them work, and the government's duty is to create it. After all, your power gives your citizens alms, not rights. We face a power that boasts of the increase in poverty and the number of alms it gives. Today, citizens can't even benefit as much as the rights given to foreign nationals. And as if it wasn't enough, the Internet ban is coming, and our country is being turned into a prison. There are now many intellectuals, students, soldiers, women, sick people; not enough, all citizens are being tried to be arrested. It started with wiretaps, interfering with the lifestyle and continuing with the Internet ban. What will come next? I guess that's what we'll see in the next soup bill. Have you looked at the papers today? We read that Syrian children were married to an imam wedding. Isn't it against human rights for girls to get married, have children, Syrian or otherwise? Isn't it against human rights to prevent girls from having jobs? With the 4+4+4 brought in, you've increased children's marriages. As a result, this bill is a bill that obstructs citizens' rights, a bill that must be corrected, not accepted. On this occasion, I say again that this bill should not be accepted, and I salute the high council. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0078par0238	Thank you. Second speaker on behalf of him, Adana MP Necdet Ünuvar. Here you go, Mr. Unüvar.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0079par0242	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge to myself over the entire bill of 524 rows that are being discussed. Dear friends, this bill has a lot to do with a lot of laws, but since the Internet arrangement has been debated too much in public, I'm going to talk mainly about the Internet arrangement. Dear friends, as you know, on May 4th, 2007, there was a law made, especially given the prevention of child abuse at the time and the particular conditions of child pornography on the Internet, under the Law 5651. Of course, at that time, eight subjects were specifically described as crime, including suicide incentives, child pornography, and insulting issues against Ataturk. Eight subjects were considered crime, and arrangements were made about it. Of course, on the terms of that day, the subject of privacy and privacy was not in the bill, I'm afraid. Perhaps it was related to the circumstances of that day, or because the Internet was not so widely used. Dear friends, law is for the happiness of society, and legal regulations are for that, and it is inevitable that, at times, the laws of law are made in line with the changing needs of society. Therefore, Law 5651, which meets the needs of its time, is free from the protection of individual rights as of today and from the need to combat crimes other than the catalog crimes I just referred to. Therefore, dear friends, there has been a need to make some arrangements in Law 5651. However, during the talks of Law 5651, I made the speech of two MPs from the main opposition. One is Osman Coshkunoglu. Osman Coshkunoğlu Hoxha, Uğur MP, in particular, says that instead of closing the entire site, it is necessary to remove the relevant content inside that site. And our other MP, a friend of ours, who is sitting right in front of me right now, makes a statement at the time as follows: "Once, there is no clear punishment against the rights of personality in the Internet, honor, dignity, honor, human dignity, and attacks on the human personality. There is no such thing as a retraction mechanism in the attacks on human rights, in human honor, in the attacks on personality rights, and you can't find it, and I want to point out once. This is how Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu makes a speech, and he does it with action. He's a very charitable friend of ours. He does a charity job and finds it unnecessary to give his name, and then he's a lawmaker who can't even give his name on a website. He makes a statement and says that because of that statement. In fact, dear friends, it is the arrangement of Mr. Aslanoglu's service at the time, so today, it is the organisation of matters related to privacy. Of course, at the time -- I also made the number -- there are 4,609,000 subscribers of the Internet; today, that number is 33 million 700,000 subscribers. I mean, there's been an increase in about seven to eight floors. And we know how fast communication is, how fast an article spreads. Thus, in the circumstances of that period, it was thought that perhaps, with an arrangement, it could be resolved within seven days. So, let's say there's been a story or video about a person who's violated their right to personality or violated the privacy of private life. I'm saying this -- the current regulation in Law 5651 -- is expected to remove content providers within two days; if not, it is considered rejected; then it is referred to the court, the court, the court of justice, and the verdict is made within three days, and then within two days, if a restraining order has been made, it comes out in seven days. See, in terms of 4,609,000 subscribers, maybe that would have been very reasonable for seven days, but today, at a time when there was an 8-9-fold increase and the speed was very high, at a time when the 3G (4G) was spoken of, indeed, sometimes, in a time when human dignity, honor, can spread very quickly. So, dear friends, this arrangement, in essence, is a mathematical arrangement to correct an issue that has been criticised in the past. Now, a few of our friends have talked about timing and censorship. Actually, it's not about timing, it's not about yesterday, it's about today. See, there's a website called the Internet Development Board. When you look at the information inside that site, you see that there's a study that starts in the middle of 2011, so it's been done for two and a half years, and it's never censored. Why not censorship? Because, as our friend Mr. Osman Coshkunoglu expressed, instead of the entire site, it is also an application that protects the rights of other people who are actually protecting the rights of the page, which we refer to as "URL," which is merely a violation of the right to a person's right or a violation of privacy. So, my dear friends, this work is a very important work. We established the IT and Internet Research Commission in 2012. I couldn't get the book, and it's really heavy, and it's a volume book, about 1,200 pages. It was a commission that we did a very productive work with the MP -- 17 -- with its political opposition. It's just a summary of 220 pages. We've brought up a lot of issues there, from cyber attacks to violations of personality rights. In fact, instead of blocking the page, the entire site, we did a very efficient study with suggestions such as blocking the page. Perhaps his proposals in the history of Parliament can also be expressed as the research commission, which is the most vital in life. So I'd like to thank our friends once again who have contributed to this commission work in both power and opposition. Dear friends, so this is an arrangement that our IT and Internet Research Commission has been doing for almost two-and-a-half years, with the opinion of all representatives of the sector and the Information Technologies and Communications Agency. It's not the problem today, it's not just the problem of the AK PARTY, it's the problem of 76 million people, so it's not just the problem of politicians; everyone has dignity, dignity, dignity. So it's an arrangement that concerns everyone, 76 million people. It's not just today, but in the future, it's an arrangement that everyone -- God willing, no one needs it, but they need it. What's he doing with 15 articles of the law? Of course, I'm not going to put it all in detail, but if we don't say it in a nutshell, a union is being formed under the name of the Union of Entrance Providers, not a public institution. Turkey has 196 BTK licensed access providers, 110 active. They'll form an access provider union, pay their own costs, take their own staff, and, within that law, if the judge decides to block it, they'll do it. Again, if a person claims that privacy has been violated in the past seven days about privacy, he must also be able to prove it by applying to the judge. In four hours, he will be taken into custody, and in 24 hours, he will appeal to the judge, and the judge will decide in 48 hours. No, this does not violate the privacy of a person's personal life. If he says so, then he will continue, and he will continue. If he says so, then he will express his opinion of the relevant unit within forty hours. So the judge's decision is valid, or the opinion of the TİB (TİB) or the Union of access providers is not valid, but the actual final decision will be the judge's. I really don't want this law to be protected by the privacy of private life and the freedom of communication from that site by the people who benefit from the entire site in that frame. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you all with the hope that this law will be good.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0080par0256	Thank you. Congressmans, talks on the entire bill...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0081par0258	Ma'am, the speaker teased me.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0082par0259	I saw it, too. I'm a witness, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0080par0260	What did he say?
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0083par0261	He called me a philanthropist.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0084par0262	Reminds me of the conversation I had last year...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0080par0263	He didn't make fun of me, he said something very positive.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0084par0264	What I'm saying is, I stand by my speech again.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0080par0265	He said you were very positive.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0084par0266	If there is honor, honor, dignity, no one has the right to break your honor, honor, dignity.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit02spe0080par0268	Of course. Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0080par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 53rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 524. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers 1 to 30. First speaker on chapter 1, İstanbul MP Aydın Aghan Ayadın on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Aya morning.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0085par0010	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Bill 524. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, thanks to power, we've gotten used to the bag of laws. Now, when we think of the bag of law, we think of the AK PARTI power because they bring a bag of laws to the Plan and Budget Commission and put whatever law there is in that bag. Now, what we're going to talk about today is the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and there's an amendment to the law on the Agency's law, on 43 different laws, on 126 articles. Usually, when a bill comes to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the issues of that bill are discussed and the relevant articles are discussed, but thanks to the AKP, when a bill comes to parliament, they bring whatever law they need to change, whatever it takes to put it in that bag. We're used to it, we're immune. This bill, which envisioned a amendment to the law ruling on the Ministry of Family and Social Policy's organization, came to parliament, we discussed it in the Plan and Budget Commission, but unfortunately the ruling of the same Ministry issued in 2011 did not come to parliament. The change is coming, but the main resolution, unfortunately, is not on the agenda of the House. It's also extremely difficult for the law-making technique, but now we're used to it because of the AKP. The first chapter, which covers Articles 1, Articles 1 and 30, is more important than Articles of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy concerning the Agency's Law and most important. It contains articles related to the Anadolu Agency. I'd rather share with you my views on the Anadolu Agency during this time today. The Anadolu Agency was founded in 1920 by Gazi Mustafa Kemal Pasha. Later, in 1925, 44 partners were transformed into an anonymous company and -- the purpose -- is to actually produce news, produce the right news, inform the public. As we look at today's Anadolu Agency, today's Anadolu Agency has left aside its ability to produce independent news, provide independent news to newspapers and television organizations, and is standing before us as an agency that has become the voice of AKP power. Only an agency that fulfills AKP's rhetorics, desires, and demands. The Anadolu Agency, in fact, is a private company founded in accordance with Turkish Trade Law provisions, but the costs of its employees are being transferred from the budget of the Press Publishing and Information General Directorate, the treasury. It's supposed to be a private agency, but both the money of their investments and the money of their employees, unfortunately, from the treasury, which is where they transfer the money from the Department of Press and Information budget. On the one hand, you're saying that an anonymous company formed according to the Turkish Trade Law provisions, on the other hand, is treated as if it were founded by public law, not by private law. The state-run Anadolu Agency has the status of a civil servant with the law. So, how does someone who works for a private company become a civil servant? It's a private company and its employees will be civil servants. You'll say it's a private company and it'll be in public opinion. You'll say you're exempt from the tender law, you'll take advantage of all kinds of state resources. I don't believe that such a company in the world has anything like it, I haven't seen it, I haven't heard it, I haven't read it; it's unique to Turkey. Now, if you're transferring money from the state budget to the Anadolu Agency -- like the Anadolu Agency -- there are more independent news sources, there are other independent news sources -- there are Ihlas News Agency, there are Agents News Agency, there are Doğan News Agency, there are NKA News Agency -- then let's fund them. If you are a private company founded according to Turkish Trade Law provisions, these are established according to the Turkish Trade Law provisions, and let's transfer public resources to them. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In 2012 alone, 130 million Turkish liras were transferred from the state budget to the Anadolu Agency. So, if it's a private company, how do you transfer money from the government budget? If it's public, then more than 51 percent of its capital is under the control of the state today, 75 percent of its capital. How does a company that controls 75 percent of its capital become a private company? The goal is to free him from the Court's control, because when his capital is over 50 per cent, he will be subject to the Court's audit. They make it so that by reducing their capital to less than 50 per cent, the Court is free of control and the Anadolu Agency becomes a farm. Today the Anadolu Agency has become the AKP's farm and trumpet.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0086par0021	That's right.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0085par0022	What's with the law now? This law states that the public stake in the Anadolu Agency is 47.75 per cent, 41.25 per cent owned by people who have been unknown for a long time, and 11 per cent belong to people who have been known to own it. Now it's said: let's take these underprivileged owners in the name of the General Manager in 2012, let the government pay for them, let 25 per cent of the company be the General Manager's personal property. This law brings it. So the head of the Anadolu Agency will own 25 per cent of the Anadolu Agency and will pay for these shares from the government's treasury. Now, it is said, "Sir, the General Manager will make a commitment, and I will transfer my shares to the treasure after I leave the post." Is there a unilateral will? After the appointment of the General Manager the day after tomorrow, I am not handing over these shares. How are you going to take them away from him if he says? If your goal is to transfer funds from treasure to the Anadolu Agency, let's not go around the back, direct the treasure to the Anadolu Agency and let those shares become shares of the state's, state's treasure. But you're not doing that, you're trying to keep the state-run state-run Anadolu Agency's money below 50 per cent so you don't have to account for where it's going, so it's your farm, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours yours, it's yours, it's yours yours, it's yours yours. The Anadolu Agency is not a free and independent agency. He kicked out a lot of his independent and free employees overnight. Why did he put it there? Because he's cleared those crews to make room for his followers. Today, many journalists in the streets are empty, unemployed, but there are journalists close to power in the Anadolu Agency who receive huge amounts of money and do no work at all.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0087par0027	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0085par0028	This is not true, this arrangement is not right. Come, together, if this money needs to be transferred, let's transfer it directly to the Anadolu Agency, from the treasury to the Anadolu Agency.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0087par0029	Thank you, Mr. Ayadun.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0085par0030	How will the General Manager own this 25 percent? Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0088par0034	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Eskişehir MP Ruzar Demirel will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0089par0038	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute everyone here with love and respect. I'd like to repeat my best wishes to the Minister, God willing. I've been promised to express our party's views on chapter one, but I'd like to draw a general framework. You know, we call the janitors "apartman" anymore, and the secretaries are called "assistant," but if we still don't treat the doorman like an apartment manager, then the image and the image in our head hasn't changed, it just doesn't go beyond an aesthetic arrangement. That's why I'd like to make a point or two about the law first. For example, the 1st article said such things -- only under opening -- that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy should be added. You'll see why I'm making this point. When you look at Article 2 of Law 1117 concerned, you find the ministry: Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. Mr. Secretary, members of the Justice and Development Party, those who are already found here, there is no ministry like this, so you probably haven't noticed in 11 years, or if you open the 6th article, you'll see the Ministry of Publicity, Housing, Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs. That's why I'm telling you, calling the janitor the secretary "Assistant" doesn't change anything in the world as long as your perspective and image don't change. So, why am I saying all this? The bag laws, you know, have been created in particular in these last ten years to use some legal loopholes against the public or to cover up the actions against the public that have been used in a bag. So, it's either a misdemeanor and it's put in a bag first, or it's a misdemeanor, and it's set up in a bag, and it's put in a bag. Now, Mr. Secretary began his mission on December 25th. You know, we're very fond of the Turkish nation. He must have spent a few hours with his days in good health. I don't know if you're aware of the fact that you've been in office on December 25th and the commission you've been working on and the talks you've made during the time you've been in the House, when you've studied the 125+1 clause about this Ministry, when you've been fully involved in these matters, and what's hidden in these bags, I don't know if you're aware of that. Because now you're the 5th concerned minister of this government process. Because of the change of name, he was the state ministry, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and you are the 5th minister. I said in a budget talk, and the friends were annoyed, and I said, "You're telling Mr. Prime Minister, as of the 3rd term, he's never mastered the Ministry. He's barely finished the first term, because he's the Ministry's ministers. Why am I saying this? In recent times, all members of your government have been stressing a fetish, insisting on a fetish. What's a Fetret? Open up, look at the dictionaries. You've worked for the Ministry of Culture, you'll know better than we do. Fetret represents a period of weakness in power, rule, or will. You are in such a state of weakness because the entire cabinet, including the Prime Minister, says we are in the age of Fetret. And you sit as Minister of such a bag of law, I want to admire your courage, I don't want to make a comment. But, of course, no matter what anyone sits by, no matter what they say, there's a saying in Turkish that you can't cover the sky directly or the sea. You can't cover the truth. There's been a December 17th in this country, the beginning of which is known to all. I mean, you can put it in a bag, bag, bag, bag, whatever you want to call it, parallel, tangent, cube, square, whatever you want, but in memory, any time you call it a shoebox, it's equivalent to stealing bribes, favors, and public resources. And you, I say again, unfortunately... this has often been used by your own government in one sentence, even by the Foreign Minister three times. We are, at the moment, without authority, we are weak, we are not in power now, or we are ruled by incompetent people. As a minister of the fetal period of the word, you will defend 125 articles plus 1 supplements very well, I congratulate you. I assume you're interested in history because of this fetal emphasis. Let me remind you that 1571 is a very big nirgy point for the Inebahti Ottomans, and I think it will be for you on December 17th. History will answer for it, consciences will ask for it. Because you're in a hurry to say that even this law, as a minister, let me examine it. You haven't had a chance to say it. Now, what's the rush? Not every coward escapes. But if anyone's running, they're scared. Not every coward escapes. So this is a time when anxiety is so high that bills and costs are paid. Some of this price is material and some of that is spiritual. Everyone pays a price, we see. Because you don't stop for a moment to experience and feel the moment you're in. You're in a panic, a cloud of dust. Mr. Secretary, first of all, you, for this brief period of time, please, enjoy the moment. Wait and see: December 1571-17. And I think you have a lot of history, so you'll understand what it means. But we all know that there's a ten-year process behind what happened on December 17th. Now, if you wash that ten years with Kevser, it won't be washed, and everyone knows it, please know it. And you have a phrase that hangs in the air that you don't have a lot of control over it: child marriage is innocent. Wherever you buy it, it doesn't happen. It doesn't work like this: there's an oxymoron. There's no such thing as terrible beauty. It's not good if something's scary. You can't say disaster is cute. It wouldn't be too cute. That's your definition of hanging in the air, he couldn't find his place. If there's a Minister of Family and Social Policy who says children's marriages are innocent, forgive me if this country is really in its prime. Now, you are the minister of women, children, disability, poverty in Turkey. I, for her, would like to put aside the matter of women and children, if you don't mind, for that matter, a little emphasis on poverty. There's a 14-story difference between the richest and the poorest in Turkey, Mr. Secretary. In this country, yes, it has increased in gross nationals. You know how the Prime Minister says, "If there's corruption, do we have this many nationals?" Right, it's increased, but the difference between the rich and the poor also increased, there's 14 times the difference. Thus, in modern times, it is described as: If there is a income below the average income per person to say poverty, we call one poor; otherwise it's $2, $3, that's a fan of spirits, there's no account. Nearly 2 fifths of this country, which lives under half the national income per person in Turkey. I hope you'll at least say something about poverty, but since your government is a certain contradiction, let me remind you of a few other things, perhaps a road map. Because you'll see here in the law, the arrangement for AFAD. I made a special emphasis on our party group speaking on our behalf in December 2011 and December 2012, in terms of our party group's opinion: you have to be in AFAD. We draw your attention to the Church, there are changes that will sabotage our family life with Syrian refugees. When I said that our family life, our family culture was being hit, Mr. Secretary of the day came out and said: "I visited the Church twice. I said, " Angelina Jolie came to Hatay twice, but she doesn't know Hatay's truth. So sometimes we're happy to see what we say come true. I'd like to give you a few more tips. You're saying that the average age is too high, that the births should rise. But do you know that you're still paying 103 lira to the laborer and the shopkeeper, and that you're not evenly paying the officer $192? In the name of equality and in the name of birth, I think maybe if you make an effort to increase people's income in this matter, history can forgive you a little bit more. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0090par0051	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Tiger.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0091par0055	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, now that this bag of legislation is included in the subcommittee, there are a lot of things that we have corrected by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy concerning the disabled. We called the positive positive positive, but when you put the toxins in there, we see that the pros are more negative than the positives. We're going to try to fix this; we're going to make a motion, we're going to try to convince him, we're going to try to tell him, but we need to understand that. Now, for God's sake, can you tell me what this Anadolu Agency is? State official news agency. Where does he get his budget? He's getting it from the Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information. He's getting it from the Prime Minister. Is there such a trade company in Turkish trade law? New release, Turkish Trade Law just came out. Take both the company and the public as you want them to, and then kidnap them from the control of the Court, kidnap them from the control of the OSCE, overcome this company's 10 per cent threshold... who are its associates, for God's sake, and we don't know their associates. Please bring in his record, his business record. Does this have a business record, or is the officer appointed according to 657? What kind of system is this, what kind of order is this, what kind of lawlessness is this, what kind of mess is this? There's no law system like this, guys. With such a system, there is no healthy law in this House. Now, when we leave here, we look at the Anadolu Agency -- the media is silenced from one side, the media is silenced, while the world's most journalists are arrested here -- employees in certain newspapers are all brought here, filled with special positions, given a special position, given special authority, and favoured while they're being privatized. That's not how it works, guys. It has no place in law, no place in trade, no place in justice, no place in the public. Now, in this bag of law, really, there's a lot to talk about. This Internet censorship thing is an isolated event, my friends. The TİB will decide on the Internet in four hours. Why? It's a violation of personality rights. How will the administrative boards decide the violation of their rights, and with what mechanism will they decide? There's no particular mechanism. Now, from China here, after Saudi Arabia, Turkey will come in third place in the world's internet ban; it has another ranking in the world. In Turkey, which closes this order, we're looking at a union of access providers. We asked how many companies have access to Turkey? We wanted Done, we didn't get it. How many are too big, how many too small? What if, hypothetically, you set up an access provider unit from these assets... and there's 10 more set up tomorrow? Can't these be members of this unit or will you block it? Such an event in trade, in this global world, in this global world, when we consider trade, art, copyright, world markets, and now, with billions of dollars, it's going to be controlled in Turkey, when we take into account companies whose shares are the most involved in real estate capital, except in real estate capital. Now, we will take precautions when the rights of individuality are violated. You say. We asked for another data. What do you understand about personal rights? During the election, the opposition party here was blackmailed, blackmailed, friends. You still haven't found those who serve this Internet; you've replaced 10 of the head of the intelligence departments, and you haven't taken them out again. If it's not removed, there's a question mark here, it's not meant to be removed. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, the ministers have violated their civil rights. The president of the TİB is under their command. Despite them, can the president of the TİB make such a decision about their decisions and their comments on the Internet?
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0092par0061	He'll give it to
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0091par0062	Is there any such thing as the president of the TİB, the director, who's going to censor the Prime Minister in four hours? Is anyone going to impose a restraining order? Is there such a model, a special-grown staff immunity? No. Now, fellas, look, it's not a simple thing. If you take it from the judiciary, if you take it from the law, if you take it from the judicial guarantee, if you subject it to administrative leave and censorship, the experience of the past 12 years in the state of a government states that it will only work against the opposition; ban, censorship, and only in violation of personality rights of every word... how is it violated? I don't know, you'll say the box will be violated, you'll say the cloud will be violated, you'll say the word "cuval" will be violated, you'll say "robbery" will be violated, you'll say "corruption" will be violated, and someone's rights will be touched. Well, then, is there a setting for this? No. The president of TİB will make that decision in four hours. You're going to appeal this verdict, and the magistrate will give it to you in 24 hours. Look, the president of the TİB won't take a decision on what's been banned because they've given the president of the TİB a right to appeal to the nearest court. Where is Mr. Ozturk? He knew his stuff, he was a lawyer, but... Now, imagine this: Second objection, hasty appeal... from the sentence of peace... is there a limit to the nearest peace sentence? For example, the special court of law for our arrested MPs has kept the case pending for 12 days. If the decision of the TİB is contested -- Mr. Ozturk is an experienced lawyer, as a member of the Justice Commission -- will the other close court be responsible if they decide in 25 days? So, what in God's name would happen with this HSYK? He'll be on the Internet for a month. Well, that's easy, the world has found a system called a warning-lift system. Well, the world says to the system provider first: "This, my friend, is this, you're violating personal rights, I'm going to sue you. He's looking, he's looking, he says, let me take it down." You're missing this system. Just as you've missed this system, you're not doing the regulation of these system providers by Parliament law, you're sticking to regulations. What's the regulation gonna be? It'll depend on the minister. It's the Minister's policy. So, what's it gonna be? Friends, it's very difficult. Look, there's tax regulations in this bag about precious stones. So they forgot to put it in the bag; one gram of this saffron flower is pretty expensive, about $11-13; the radium is $58, platinum is like that; there's something called meth, $100. Look, the VAT, the entrance was forgotten, or it would have been in the bag. Let her go, I'm asking you: how many child porn decisions have you made on the Internet, how many sexual publications have you made, how many political websites have you shut down? Can you give me a transcript of the court rulings? In Ukraine, the government resigned now, and the Prime Minister resigned, and the people were in the square. Now, if news like this comes in, will it be censored? Look, the Central Bank has issued an open letter today according to Article 42: the inflation target has lost its aim, the exchange rate is falling. Now, what will happen when you write them as news on the Internet, is it going to enter the ban? Friends, these are uncertain and dangerous things. It won't win anyone. Mr. Ozturk, you didn't tell me how many days a hasty objection was.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0093par0073	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0094par0074	Mr. President, he picked on me, you see.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0093par0075	I saw and heard. There's nothing wrong with that, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0094par0076	But, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0093par0077	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk, please... Congressmans, we're done talking on behalf of the groups. Now, we're going to go to the speech section on behalf of the individuals. The first speaker is Mersin MP Ali Öz. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0095par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we now live in an environment where we make a habit of making a habit of making a normal law in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, completely out of the way, when we think about it, what law, what law, what law, where it's missing, it gets better and better. I, this bag of legislation, what's in this bag of legislation, what's in this bill, what's in it for us, what's in it, what's in it, what's taking us, I want to make some statements. As earlier oratories have stated, this particular bill contains a violation of the Civil Code, a violation of the lawmaking technique, an unrelated clause. All of which have nothing to do with each other, all of which need to be discussed separately, especially the Supreme Parliament, where we see it as a reflection of the national will in this Parliament, there is a barrier to the freedom of lawmakers to express their views on the matter, even if it is in the interest of passing it to the authorities. There's infrastructure for the law, there's a bypass for the commissions, there's a disregard for the opposition's legal proposals. Here are several law proposals related to most of the clauses planned to be held within the bill, stating that each political party group has not been transferred to the commissions by the Speaker of Parliament after the Turkish Parliament passed the President of the Laws and Decisions, either in the same condition or expressed the parties' views and attitudes on these issues. You're not going to do any of this, and then you're going to come back, you're going to draft a bag of bills, and then you're going to talk about democracy, freedom, advanced democracy, the rule of law in this country. We need to express that we're dealing with a great deception, a great deception. We've been through this before. When the provisions were issued under the law, we stated that the timings of the judicial decrees were not right in many ways, that they had problems in many ways, that the burden of Parliament was increased by proposals or bills to correct them, that we wasted time, that we wasted the nation's time, and that we wasted it. The bag bill is now in such a state that any ministry sees anything missing in any field has a desire to expand the bag as volume and content. By the way, of course, as we bring up this bag of bills, we're also inventing new regulations in Turkey's Grand National Assembly as never before. In order to make a habit of these, we set such a precedent in the future, saying, "This is what we have done in the past. " We're combining irrelevant topics. We don't run commissions. In this bill, which we need to discuss, especially in this bill, which we need to discuss, in particular, most of the disabled people you refer to as positive discrimination prior to the election, ignore all proposals and proposals and proposals related to the problems of disabled families, and immediately eliminate them in the Plan and Budget Commission. Honourable lawmakers, dear friends, as we come to the 17th December process, we have stated that the infrastructure of some of the laws that had previously been passed in this Parliament has been laid down, that this will bring great things to your head in the future. But I suppose, as we understand it, a plague is better than a thousand counsels, but you continue to persist in the same error, ignoring the plague without even understanding it. So, as opposition, we consider it our duty to warn you every time. The bill has positive regulations on family and social policies, social services, disabled, technology centers, RD, innovation, testing property rights... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I respectfully salute the High Council, which means it's not right to be inflated so much.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0096par0093	Thank you, Mr. Oz. On behalf of him, the second speaker, Mr. Abdullah Nejat Koçer of Gaziantep. Here you go, Mr. Coacher.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0097par0097	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have taken my solemn oath on the first chapter of the First Amendment to the Law and Law Orders of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy No. 524. I salute your high council. The work and the work of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy since the establishment of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy have provided great satisfaction in the entire community as to some of our problems come from years ago in terms of the social state phenomenon. The success of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in the fulfillment of social aid and services for our needy citizens -- especially children, women and disabled citizens -- is well-appreciated and modeled by various charities, foundations and foreign countries. In the process of the adoption of the laws that led to this success, the support of valuable opposition lawmakers is also important and valuable to our work in the great Parliament. Again, I believe that the Law Bill 524, which brings a significant change and innovation, will soon be completed with the contributions of our dear opposition friends. As a result, this bill has been drafted due to the need for certain legal arrangements to ensure that the assistance and services offered by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy are actively and efficiently within the country. Although the amount of resources used in social services and assistance has increased 15 times over the past decade, and the GDP rate has increased by threefold, it has also been necessary to implement and implement policies on the changes in the amendments to the laws and laws that we have been working on, in line with rapid change and transformation across the world, in accordance with a number of social issues. To be a strong country, we need strong family structure, strong family, peaceful, happy individuals with society. It is also the government's top priority to ensure that its citizens actively participate in social life without any obstacles. We are responsible for enforcing laws that allow every part of society to benefit from equal and just social life and all kinds of possibilities. In order to promote disability employment, bringing disabled persons into the labour market, reducing jobs for mental and mental disability studies that are difficult, the unemployment insurance of disabled workers who work in protected workplaces is an arrangement that all of us wishes would be paid for from the fund, making arrangements to meet the demands of disabled officers who are disabled from the disability situation, and all of the other materials that will be added to the disability Act will be made available to all of us. However, there is no obstacle to the principle of equality in the eyes of the law in favour of those involved in the disadvantaged population, as a result of the principle of positive discrimination and acceptance. In addition to this, the law we have discussed, the amendment to the Expendance Tax Act 6802 and the special communication tax for invoiceless line users and invoiced line users are being organised, and regulations are made to ensure that the Anadolu Agency can work flexiblely and effectively under national and international competition conditions, exclusion of the agency's legislation concerning some general public administration. The amendment to Tax Code 213 also aims to prevent the informal economy, to fight loss and fugitives. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the law to be good, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit03spe0098par0106	Thank you. Congressmans, no questions, no answers. Talks on chapter one are complete. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit04spe0098par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 53rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 524. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Italy with the Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development Areas, with the European Commission and Foreign Commission Reports. Commission? No. It's been postponed.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit04spe0099par0009	Mr. President, these commissions don't work. Why aren't they sitting on the commission?
tbmm-2014-01-28sit04spe0098par0010	If I knew...
tbmm-2014-01-28sit04spe0099par0011	Check it out, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-28sit04spe0098par0012	We will begin negotiations between the Government of Turkey and the Government of Iran between the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Foreign Commission Reports. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will no longer be found, the decision was made Wednesday (January 29th 2014) to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Good evening to all the MPs.
