tbmm-2014-06-18sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 105th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Congressmans, my dear friends, if we ease the hum in the General Assembly, I will promise our friends off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement is from Bart's MP, Mr. Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya, who wants to talk about the planned thermal power plant project in Amasra district of Bartın. Here you go, Mr. Yalcinkaya.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment today to bring this matter up once again regarding the thermal power plant, which is a very important problem in Bartin's province. I salute you all with love and respect. Dear friends, where is this place? This is the district of Amasra, Bartın Province. In 1460 when Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror went out to take Amasra away from the Genevizites, when he first saw Amasra, Lala, Lala, Laşm-i jihan, he said, "Is this the beauty of the world?" In its 3,000 years of historical history and natural beauty, the apple of Bart's eye, the pearl of the Black Sea, the thermal plant of the Amasra, is to be built, and indeed, Amasra, a very important tourist attraction of our country, is wanted to be destroyed by the thermal power plant that will be built, an act of murder is being committed against Amasra. So, the main theme in today's speech -- I'm here to ask you for your support and your contribution in the non-building of this thermal plant for Amasra. There's irregularities, there's mistakes, there's mistakes, there's mistakes, I'd like to address people here who are concerned that they need to be returned from these mistakes as soon as possible. As we finally arrived, the Hema Industries Incorporated Institute's CED application files were made by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism in 2009, 2010, 2013, 1/100. Despite being extradited at the 2000-scale Zonguldak-Bartin-Karabuk Regional Environment System, the CED process was finalised at the last review and evaluation commission on 8 May 2014. The decision on the final adoption of the CED report and the end of the review and evaluation process was published on 10 June 2014 on the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism website, and the ten-day appeal process was launched. It's really, really, 1/100 that this process has come to this day. The ministry, unfortunately, did not respect its own plan, but insisted on setting up a thermal power plant for Amasra (Amasra) by disregarding the decisions he had made. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, which he built for Amasra, is 1/100. In its 1,000-year environmental order plan, Amasra put in place the plan to make it an important centre for tourism, in terms of historical and archaeological values, that it should be brought to the goal in terms of tourism with its continuous development plans, while unfortunately, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism quickly continues its attempts to establish thermal power plants for Amasra, even though it is clear and clear that they are not to establish thermal plants in Amasra. Amasra and Bart's people have shown great resistance to the thermal plant, a great struggle. Amasra and Bart's people are 1/100. He voiced the need to follow the 1,000 - year plan of environmental order, and on June 5th, on Earth's Environment Day, the people of Amasra formed a chain of hands and expressed their reaction to the establishment of a thermal plant for Amasra. Now he's about to appeal 30,000 objections to the Ministry of Environment. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, dear friends, in the matter of setting up a thermal power plant for Amasra, please, I wish to review the decisions made once again, and I invite you to come to Amasra. I invite you to eat the fish of Amasra, and to eat the salad of Amasra, and to eat the manna of Amasra. I invite you to see the beauty of Amasra. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit01spe0003par0023	Thank you, Mr. Yalcinkaya. But let me ask you something: now you've invited everyone. If we pack up and come back, will you pay?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit01spe0002par0025	We'll pay, we'll see.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit01spe0003par0026	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit01spe0004par0027	I'll pay, Mr. President, I'll pay.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit01spe0002par0028	We look at it as the people of Amasra.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit01spe0003par0029	Yeah, well, then you're included, so, yeah, okay. Mr. Yalcinkaya, you are invited by Mr. Tunç. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı, an MP who asked for a promise on the damage caused by natural disasters to agricultural fields and orchards. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit01spe0005par0033	Mr. President, I've been promised off the agenda of natural disasters that have hit our farmer's farms, fruit and vegetable gardens. On this occasion, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to briefly discuss the developments in Iraq. News from Turkmeneli is breaking the heart of the Turkish nation. Turkmen are being subjected to genocide, indiscriminately. Unfortunately, the world is watching this, and the worst of it is the AKP government watching this. Where's the Prime Minister who's been blowing blanks for years? Turkey's territory has been invaded, its flag has been lowered, its people taken hostage. The prime minister who tried to pull a hair out of butter didn't even tell ISIS he was a terrorist. The Turkishmen have died unconscionably, abasing their lives, while the Prime Minister and government are playing around with explanations that don't touch soap. Turkmen are a matter of honor, honor and honor for the Turkish nation. The security of Kerkuk, Mosul, Telafer, Tusurmatou is Turkey's security, and Turkey's Turkmeli will be unsafe if it is unsafe. The AKP government must not ignore Turkmeneli's distress call, the Turkish military is present. The Prime Minister and his government must take a decisive stand, abandon cowardly, weak, lame and wimpy policies immediately. An effective deterrent strategy based on Turkey's operational military power must be fully implemented Dear lawmakers, following the drought from October to May, our manufacturers of frosts, rainstorms, and flood disasters have suffered major damage in recent months. Our farmer has suffered natural disasters that he hasn't encountered in years. While the damage caused by natural disasters differs according to the provinces, nuts, apricots, apples, tea and kivides are at 20 per cent and 50 per cent in wheat, according to a report by the Union of Agriculture Rooms of Turkey. It is the largest wheat producer in Turkey and produced 2 million 292,000 tonnes last year, and is envisioned to reduce production to 1m35,000 tonnes by 40 per cent this year. The cries of millions of our citizens working in agriculture are rising in waves. Our fencers are desperate, waiting for a helping hand from their government. The fact that our farmer is not abandoned to his fate is said to have contributed substantially to our agricultural production during the spring of 2014, as the Minister of Agriculture said last week, when I made a motion to implement an agricultural support package based on agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture has made it clear that he is unaware of agriculture and is indifferent to the farmer's problems. Our farmer, who can't sell the product he's producing, and is now devastated by the drought, frost, hail, flood and flood disaster, which has increased his credit debt to banks, which comes with high rates of agricultural inputs, particularly diesel and fertilizer. However, the AKP government does not care about the situation of the farmer or Turkish agriculture. The AKP government is corrupt instead of supporting farmers and peasants. As a matter of fact, while our farmer expects ease for electricity debt, the AKP government has decided that agricultural support should not be given due to electricity debt. In the process, the government has again invested in imports, importing wheat, barley, rice, corn with zero customs. The government says we have delayed the farmer's debt to Agriculture Bank and agricultural loan co-ops for a year. Farmers, whose products, animal assets, facilities or greenhouses are at least 30 per cent damaged have been delayed by 3% interest. It is unfair to put interest on the debt of farmers who have nothing left because of the natural disaster. The government must show compassion and goodwill by offering a helping hand to our victims, but why was our farmer's problems ignored in a bag bill referred to by the government as the most comprehensive amnesty law in the history of the Republic? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit01spe0006par0042	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0006par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 105th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The third word from the outside of the day belongs to Mr. Faruk Illum. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0007par0005	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the High Council. As in many different geographys, the understanding of the nation, which the 20th century spread throughout the world, has caused us great pain. It's a pity that in every part of society, the anti-human futata, the understanding of an authoritarian state that has reached algebra, has left deep marks. Every color, every region and every race of my country has experienced it in the most painful way. But these pains have become much more painful in my geography than in the fact that there are different actors involved. The most burning laments, the worst tragedies, the most brutal acts, the most unjust treatments, the cold cases, the law-missing courts, the tortures, bans, denials, assimilations, and so on, have brought hell to our region. Fortunately, the 14th of August 2001, when the EC PARTY was founded, for my country, for my nation, was the end of poverty, backwardness, insecurities, insecurity, hatred, hatred, assimilation, and so on. Now, I want to tell you how this history felt in Mush. I'd like to talk about the vast, heaven-size plain, the curving of Murat and Karasu Rivers, the Kurdik Mountain, which has snow on it even in August, and most importantly the Malazzirt, where the Turks and Kurds cry out to the world what they can do together. In almost every field in the past decade, our province has been experiencing a process that has rapidly completed its physical infrastructure in almost every field, with education, health, transportation, environment and social equipment, taking on a little bit more and more of the city's presence every day. With the completion of this process, I believe he will be able to make amends for the losses he has suffered so far. As a matter of fact, with the achievements recorded during the AK PARTI administrations, it is clear that it has been ahead of the republic's history. In the meantime, I'd like to make it clear that over the last three years, nearly 800 million dollars has been transferred to Mush. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in addition to all of this, perhaps the most important investment, the most important project for my country, my region and my city, is the resolution and peace project. In the last thirty years, we have buried tens of thousands of our children and young bodies to the west, to the north, to the south, to the Kurdish, to the Turkish, to the Arab, to the Laz. In short, we have passed through a bloody time cave that has made each of us murderers or victims, despite our thousands of years of common history, who have made us both brothers and sisters, who have made us both for the joy and religion of common life, but we are on the brink of a new era where we call it my solution or the peace process. So let's take this historic opportunity in the light of reason, conscience, and truth, without allowing any political anxiety and interest, abuse, or prejudice, and build a more prestigious future, both regional and global. Dear lawmakers, it has been 19 months since our government's solution process began. For the past nineteen months, no young man has lost his life, no mother has shed tears, no child has left an orphan. It's the biggest win of the process. The ability of young people who lived yesterday to live today is the ability to keep our young ones alive tomorrow. Wise King Aliya Izetbegovic, in his interview with a journalist following the peace talks, says: "This sign does not necessarily imply a remarkable deal for Bosnia, but if I hadn't signed it at that moment, many Bosniaks who were alive today would be in the ground, many of them starving to death. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] At least now the Bosniaks are alive and our Bosnian case is ongoing. Not much, but if the solution had started a year ago, thousands of young people today would have been alive. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0008par0015	Thank you, Mr. Light, it's over.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0007par0016	Just a moment, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0008par0017	No, we don't have a second. You guys talk, I can't tell him anything.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0007par0018	I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0008par0020	You've had a lot of applause.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0009par0021	And you shouldn't have left the most important thing at the end.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0008par0022	Nothing! Yeah, I'm gonna make ten of our friends a little promise. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0010par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. The PKK has closed the road to Diyarbakır-Bingöl for 24 days, will build a ditch on highways, destroy bridges, do ID checks, and you will watch. In 24 days, the PKK will come and stop cutting roads, stand ready within 100 metres of the road in the tents, and you will claim to be the government and that you rule. There's no power, there's a terrorist organization that's causing a roadblock. You are guilty of allowing Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to exercise sovereignty over the state of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation. You have actually created two authorities in Turkey. You have taken your place in history as a government incapable of securing the lives and property of the Turkish people. You've left the government and the nation helpless and helpless. You have become hawks in the field, and doves in the kandil. You jeopardized the undivisable integrity of the state with its country and nation. You're the government, you can't rule, you're the power, you're not capable. You're not with the public, you're with the PKK.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0008par0028	Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0011par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. From 2009 to 2012, the Republican People's Party ruled the municipality, and the workers worked in peace, brotherly, no distinction, with a great business peace. After the March 30th elections, the new municipality in Susurluk Municipality, which moved from CHP to AKP, immediately kicked out 80 workers who refused to work without a union. Today, in Susurluk, 80 of our brothers and sisters in front of the municipality are fighting for their rights. Mr. Secretary, the massacre of workers isn't just in Soma. Look, we're fighting a great battle today with 301 of our citizens after the massacre of Soma, our dead citizens, but the massacre of workers is not just in the mines, but in every area where AKP is in power. Look, today 80 workers lost their jobs, their vaccines, their bread, and their children's bread. This agony...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0012par0034	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0013par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. I strongly condemn the terrorist attacks on Iraqi Turkmen. I salute the Iraqi Turks who are trying to protect their land, their honor, against the traitors in Iraq, against the killers, from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and once again, I say we are with them. In addition, the province of Tokat has been in grave danger for the past 15 years because of a disease called the Crimean Congo bleeding disease, called a tick bite. About 50 people have died from this disease, and hundreds of others have been hospitalized. However, the public is suffering from this disease. Nine people died this year, too. The peasant, the farmer, has a great deal of anxiety on his way to his field, his garden. The Ministry of Health must immediately quarantine the cities of this disease, especially the province of Tokat, at a protective clinic, particularly the vaccine.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0014par0039	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0015par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to ask the Home Secretary through you. Earlier -- I'm an engineer retired from the county's private administration -- I asked him about the properties of the state's private administration. Despite the agency's preparations for this, I believe, Mr. Home Secretary is writing us a very brief response, which was handed over to the institutions and organizations according to the decision of the appointed Commission for Reciprocity, Determination, and Sharement. I'm condemning the Home Secretary here, and I'd like to ask the Home Secretary if he was specifically elected to be a bureaucrat so that it could be this way. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0016par0043	Mr. Halaman... Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there's been a political unrest in the Adana area in particular lately. So there's also commercial unrest. The market of the orange era, the citrus era, didn't pan out, it didn't go well, the citrus stayed down. The wheat has been harvested, and it's not good because of climate conditions. Now, the sunflower's coming up, the watermelon's coming up. At least let our Minister, who represents politics, who's involved in this business, say something about this sunflower, so they should be a little concerned at the point of their introduction. I just wanted to say thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0017par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. About a week has passed since the traitorous attack on our consulate in Iraq, today is the eighth day. The events of Iraq with our consulate are clear. Over 100 of our citizens are prisoners and hostages. However, there is not a single voice from any government official, especially the Secretary of State. We will solve this in Turkey as it has not been heard. The understanding, which says, "We will solve it." The idea that silences the media and bans the media, has not yet given the Turkish Grand National Assembly -- unfortunately, it still has not given the MPs any information. I wonder what measures they're taking with our citizens. I'd like a statement from the government officials, the Minister, who is now in the ranks of the government. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0018par0052	Mr. Öpün... Thank you, Mr. President. The application of the announcement on the privatisation of 71 acres of property in Istanbul on 8 May has sparked major and justified reactions. The privatisations include sites and archaeological sites, creek beds, roads, green areas, military areas. In particular, it is a huge score of privatisation of the Agricultural County Directorate in Erenköy. This is the largest green area in the region, and in the event of sale, this area will be opened to construction. Previously, many steps have been taken to build the land, but it is legally blocked. The head of the government said there were no green areas left in Kadiköy before the 2009 elections, and announced that the land would be made green. Why is the land in Erenköy in Istanbul, where there is no one left to breathe? Moreover, the new development plan, which the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has launched in Skopjedar, is also a major boost. The only park in Yazbadem has been opened to construction between Burhaniye-Altuniade and... Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0019par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. The two neighbouring states in the south are experiencing a bloody process in which Iraq and Syria are threatened by division. ISIS continues to advance after taking Musul. Do not test our power in the face of radical organizations based on sects of millions of innocent Muslim people in the region, especially Turkishmen, and the abandonment of the barbaric ISIS terrorist organization. I call on the Foreign Minister and the government, who can't go beyond the point.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0018par0059	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0020par0060	Mr. President, İştan Önder graduated first from Izmit Gazi Anadolu High School and in the final part of his speech on the graduation stand, he was transferred to the disciplinary board after the graduation by the school board, stressing the killings of Ali İsmail Korkmez, who had been taken away from his right to live in Eskişehir, 15 years old. I condemn all cowards who have given this punishment to our student, even though it is not in the 163, 164, 165, and 166. I also congratulate the Christian Leader and his family for bringing up such a free son. Maybe...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0018par0062	Mr. Sesame... Mr. President, I'd like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question through you. The farmland has suffered severe damage due to natural disasters, the crops of our village have been filled or damaged by other disasters. The government's position on making amends for this damage has been shown no alternative but to delay the debt of those with TARSIM insurance. In this sense, the peasant is desperate; he can't get his product and get his money, but he can't do anything to compensate for the natural damage to his product. I'd like to say to the Minister of Precious Development who's here immediately -- that at the point where the farmer's damage has been done, the Council of Ministers must take precautions, support the villager's production damage, just...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0021par0065	I remind you that they need new support to produce, not their debt. I'm inviting you on duty.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0018par0066	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation. I'll have the motions read separately. In the 2nd place, the parliamentary research motion that I'm going to read will be read over 500 words, but the full text of the motion will be included in the Tutorak Magazine. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the Association of Turkish Publishers (TYB) Freedom Report (June 2011-June 2012), there is a significant increase in the number of thinkers in prison for having opposing opinions and expressing them verbally or in writing. According to the report, many authors, translators and painters were tried in 2011 for their work and work, and faced restraining decisions and practices against the rights of publishers to publish. According to the BIA Observation Report, 100 journalists and 35 distributors are arrested as of the end of March in our country. The draft of Ahmet Şık's Army of İmam was confiscated and collected in March 2011. In December, Harun Gürek's contracting crafts were collected. Starting in January 2012, Moses Anter's books from the Aram Press were banned. Zülfü Livaneli was not allowed to hang on the Istanbul subway because the cover of the Support Publishing House, which produced a comic book version of the book Kamashma Posters are posted on the subway after the censored cover. According to the TYB report, Deniz Yıldırım from Cumhuriyet daily, İlhan Taşçı from Cumhuriyet daily, Ali Mountains from Hurriyet, İsmail Saymaz from Radikal daily and Hanefi Avcı were sued because of the book published by Metis Publishing, because of the cartoon he had drawn from Penguin magazine Bahadir Baruter, and because of the books he had published. Chuck Palahniuk's Death Porno, published by William S. The book of Burroughs' Soft Machine, published by Irfan Pain and Translator, has been sued for lewdness. The case continues on whether two world-famous authors and their books are literary and if their translation is done correctly. According to the report again, an investigation was launched into a teacher in Ankara who recommended Mina Urgan's book of Memories of a Dinosaur. In many cases, the report also reveals that books have entered criminal cases as evidence. Hundreds of books that are not banned in our country have been cited in indictments as evidence of crime and evidence of organization membership. And in the houses of punishment, the situation is even worse. The entrance to prisons, many books that are not banned, sold in the market, is against the law. Prisoners and prisoners have no freedom to read. Since the day the AKP came to power, writers, painters, publishers have put a lot of pressure on the press. Individuals who think and express it are threatened by cases. This is proof that the greatest obstacle to freedom of thought and expression is the current power. Books were banned, collected in AKP rule; publishers, journalists, writers, intellectuals explaining their thoughts were imprisoned; newspapers, websites were shut down. What happened is proof that AKP power does not tolerate any opposition noise. In order to determine the problems ahead of the freedom of thought, expression and publication and to address these problems, we respectfully submit to the establishment of a research commission in accordance with Article 98, Article 104, Article 105, and Article 105 of our Civil Code. [[40s.]] 2) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[Çanakkale]] 7) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 8) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Manisa]] 14) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] 15) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] 18) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 21) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] 23) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 24) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[İstanbul]] 26) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] 29) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 32) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] [[Ardahan]] [[x]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey is known to have about 2 million workers and more than 200 million children worldwide. In Turkey, large numerical data are produced when children working off the books at small-scale businesses are considered. Child labor is the worst form of labour exploitation, but millions of children are exploited spiritually, psychologically, emotionally, physically. The economic crisis is likely to lead to an increase in child labor in Turkey. It is clear that these rates will increase further by the new education policy, which has been adopted by the government as a result of a new law change called 4+4+4. Therefore, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened in accordance with Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Subsection. [[İstanbul]] [[Ardahan]] 3) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 4) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] 15) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 17) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] 18) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] 20) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 21) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 22) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Mersin]] 24) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 27) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] [[Hatay]] 30) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] "In the 6-year period between 2000-2006, the number of children working for 246 million has dropped to 216 million, " says the UN-based International Labour Organization (ILO). Child labor is the most important problem in the world's agenda that needs to be ranked at the top and needs immediate solutions. In various parts of the world, millions of children work under conditions that harm their physical, mental, emotional, social, educational, and cultural development, and are not in line with national laws and international standards. The International Labour Organization (ILO), which discussed the issue worldwide, has created a work programme from 1992-1993 that aims to protect working children, protect children, fight child labor and end this problem. The long-term goal of the IPEC is to ensure the end of child labor, while in short and middle term, it aims to improve children's protection and working conditions, and at certain times, data is published by research on the overall state of child labor in the world. Based on the basic indicators of the Children's Workforce Survey October 1999 by the ILO Statistical Agency, the proportion of 16,088,000 children in Turkey among the 6-17-year-old group has been estimated to be 10.2 per cent (,635,000 people). One of the key factors that has been effective in reducing the number of children's workers over time is that eight years of mandatory education has been implemented. This factor does not offer a solution to child labor, but only to bring delays, which raises concern that the government's implementation of 4+4+4 education system will increase the number of children's workers again. It is possible to achieve permanent solutions to a multi-directional issue, such as the removal of the problem of children's employment, but to make the problem national policy and to ensure the participation of all relevant institutions and organisations. In addition to the worldwide work, nationally-based proposals for solutions need to be developed. In addition to business review boards, relevant ministries, local government agencies, voluntary organisations, labour and employers organisations, mechanisms for co-operation with research organisations and universities will be effective in reaching the desired conclusion. The absence of a child's policy to protect and remove children from these problems, which will grasp children's rights in our country in every way, arises as a problem in all areas of children and a major flaw. Therefore, it has been thought that it would be appropriate to investigate the Parliament under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, TBM Underlaws, 104, and 105, in order to identify these problems and find solutions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "In order to ensure that necessary measures can be taken to determine business accidents and related diseases, to reduce or eliminate the risks of injuries and employees," we respectfully submit to the need for the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104, 105, especially the Constitution of the Grand National Assembly's Internal Charter of Turkey. [[Eskişehir]] 2) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Samsun]] 4) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Kayseri]] 6) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Inconceived]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] [[Mersin]] [[Lug]] [[Kütahya]] [[Manisa]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Adana]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Kastamon]] [[Adana]] 21) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] While health is an integral part of occupational safety practices, the basic philosophy of job safety is to protect, improve, and sustain the health of employees. According to a study conducted by registered employees in our country, one of every two employees is in a business accident, and it is estimated to be even higher in off-the-book employees. A general prevention policy, which will minimize the negative effects of working conditions on employees on health and security, has to be constantly harmonised with the developing technology of the workplace's design, the choice of business equipment, the way it works, and the way it works and the way it works, and the effects of other factors related to social relations and the working environment. The employee's safety began in our country for the first time in 1969, under contract with ILO, but it never had a law of its own. As clearly stated in the declaration in Seoul in 2008, which constitutes the infrastructure of the Istanbul Declaration, It is the duty of governments to implement full and proper health and safety standards, including a strong and efficient business control system to protect employees' health and safety." It is estimated that in our country, where there are 1 million child workers and more than 600,000 of them work as heavy workers, 71 per cent of all registered employees are unhappy, it is necessary to create economic and sociocultural infrastructure that will increase the well-being of employees, not just the prevention of business accidents as part of the collective responsibility that is being imposed. The lack of health and safety concerns of employees is undoubtedly one of the greatest factors to increase efficiency. The overall purpose of the study is that measures can be taken to "enhancing public awareness of employees' health and safety, to regulate risk management, working conditions and to determine the methods of control." 1) To determine the number of registered and unregistered employees and children's workers and the working working staff, 2) To determine the number of employees who were injured, sick and lost their lives, and the causes of the incidents, 3) To determine the distribution of occupational diseases and business accidents according to the working arm, 4) Identifying occupational disorders, business accidents and related diseases and risks for employees 5) To determine the socioeconomic infrastructure for boosting employees' welfare levels, morale and motivation, 6) To determine control methods and frequency for preventing occupational illness and business accidents 7) In our country, it is to determine problems in harmony with international contracts signed for occupational illness and business accidents. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it and put it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's 18/06/2014 meeting on Wednesday (now), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. "It has been suggested that a parliamentary investigation of the Turkish Parliament's agenda be met together in Wednesday's 18/06/2014 merger of the General Assembly, in order to determine the measures that must be taken by investigating the entire dimensions of the negative situation of beekeeping and honey producers. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, the first statement belongs to Mr. Adil Zozani of Hakkari MP. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0022par0288	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, Mr. Sırı Sakek, who was elected Mayor of Ağrı in the June 1st election, was going to give this speech. However, due to the fact that he's taken over the mayor's office, Mr. Sakik has given up this speech because of the appreciation of our Deputy Speaker, and it's up to me. So I'll talk about the motion. I wish Mr. Sakık....congratulations on his newly elected mission. I hope that as a group, he will also sign the services of the country that we can be proud of. We wish him success in his work already. Now, in Turkey, mainly in intense turmoil, amongst the busy agendas, the producers, the tradesman, the farmer's troubles, have always been unspoken, I'm afraid. So we've brought up this group proposal, in a way, to Turkey's main agenda, so that the House will not be indifferent to Turkey's original problems, and the House will not forget these problems. The beekeeper problem is very important for us because we have a number of people around Turkey who are beekeepers in traditional ways, and it raises Turkey to the fourth in the world class, with what our people, our manufacturers, have produced, with traditional methods. There are nearly 5 million hives and 81,22,000 tons of honey annual production in Turkey, but there are so little to say about it that the beekeepers, the manufacturers in this sense, have no guidance mechanisms, scientific mechanisms. One of these mechanisms was in our Bitlis province, founded in the name of the beekeeping and research institute, a mechanism that, in particular, guided the beekeepers in the region, was a scientific mechanism, but it was later shut down, and after this institution was shut down, we witnessed intense bee deaths in the region, particularly in the Bitlis region. Traditionally, bees can't be protected, bees can't produce honey. We're talking about it here today, both to point to the woes of beekeepers and to point to the need for scientific work that needs to be done in this sense, to contribute to the people who produce it, to provide support, to provide data. So we're talking about a very important problem for Turkey in terms of both Bitlis and the region as a whole. When it is focused on this area, the Ministry of Agriculture and Animalism can make it a country that is essentially producing export products in this area when it develops preliminary policies, projects. But unfortunately, we don't see any of that. Speaking of Bitlis, I'd like to share a freak from here, which is that in 2009-2010, when TEKEL was privatised, 950 shareholders were given to the municipality as a factory area. In the five years we left, the city went to build a firehouse on this land, social aid buildings, etcetera, and so on; it was used in five years. However, in the March 30th elections, we witnessed a freak because of the change of hand by the municipality. A month and a half after the election, TEKEL land, which was donated to the municipality by the Prime Minister and four executive ministers, was reinstated on May 12th. The decision, signed by the Prime Minister and four executive ministers, was published in the Official Gazette on 14 May. Returned on June 16th, lands granted to the municipality... just after May 14th, authorities of the Diyarbakır Privatisation Administration go to Bitlis, 15th of which go to the office of the deed, they take the deed to themselves, and the deeds are completely surrounded. Now, there are similar problems in Mardin City, but I especially want to bring this freak to your attention. Why did the city use those land for five years? This is the land of the citizens there. After five years in the municipality, where 950 shareholders donate for free, why was it needed to get it back when the city changed hands? What are you going to do with this land? Who are you going to build a factory site for? In the first place, the ruling party's Bitlis MP should have gone out and rebelled, and they shouldn't have said such a freak. But I think there's an interest in this decision, they're like berries, and they don't give a damn about it. There is a similar problem in Mardin City. Somewhere else in the world, this scandal even causes governments to change hands. Mardin Metropolitan Municipality is currently a tent municipality and is a municipality without a building. The reason is that a day before the elections, one of the lower-level municipalities used by Mardin Metropolitan Municipality was transferred to Artuklu Municipality. It's been built into the building of Artuklu Town Hall. The reason was, why Artuklu City Hall? In the polls, maybe we'll win the Artuklu Municipality. He had expectations. When he didn't win, the expectation failed, but this time the building remained in the city of Artuklu. After the change of hands at Mardin Metropolitan Municipality, they found that they had no building to live in, that the mayors had no rooms to live in. The service building, which Artuklu Municipality currently uses, is being used jointly with the Metropolitan municipality. Mardin Metropolitan Municipality is an intruder in the service building of Artuklu Municipality. I'm not saying that. Artuklu Municipality is applying for governorship with a petition, and my building has been occupied by the city's municipality. That's not the end of the freak game, so it's not the endgame. The debts of all district municipalities were written in the city municipality in Mardin, but all assets that must be passed by the Metropolitan City Law and to the capital city have been left to the governorship's savings. I mean, the city will pay the debts, but their assets, including the tools of the state's private administration, including the vehicles they used, were normally required to transfer them to municipalities -- all left to the governorship's savings. This weirdness, this weirdness, this funkyness, somebody's got to come out here and explain it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0023par0299	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. Mr. Yunus Kılıç is a member of the Kars MP against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0024par0303	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party, I have taken a pledge against the proposal of 21 MPs to form a parliamentary research commission on the problems of beekeepers and honeymakers. I salute your high council. Respected lawmakers, what does beekeeping first mean to us, for our country, for the world's sake, after giving a brief piece of information about it, I hope to answer questions about the establishment of the Research Commission. Turkey is second in the production of world beekeeping, especially one of the beekeeping products. Mr. Zozani said he was number four, but I don't think he was paying attention to recent developments. Currently, our honey production is around 95,000 tonnes, our hives are second in the world after China, and Turkey is second in the world at the point of honey production, while the population of Turkey corresponds to about 1.1% of the world's population, while our honey production is around 5.5-6 per cent in the world. So when you actually look at it, at the honey-making point, Turkey is in a pretty good position, but can Turkey produce more? Can the income level of your people increase the income level of those who care about beekeeping? Of course it's possible, it's possible. More or less 20,000 villages are beekeeping in Turkey, and in those 20,000 villages, about 80,000 families -- if you count it as an average of four hundred and twenty thousand -- are personally beekeepers, producing honey, producing other bee products, and contributing to family life, setting living standards with this. And another number: 1.26 kilograms of honey consumed per person in Turkey. That's a number that's way above the world average, friends, because honey consumption is 0.2 kilograms per person in the world. From this point on, it's pretty clear we're actually a good place. But when you draw the general framework, especially when you think about increasing diversity in agricultural production, producing in territorial areas, building businesses with small capitals and contributing to the family budget, in countries such as Turkey, we're looking at it as an area that should be diversified, diversified, promoted, supported. What has Turkey done in the past since this general acceptance? What does he do today about beekeeping, about the problems of honeymakers? Is it enough to do? Do you need more? And I think looking out that window is going to be a more accurate assessment. Respected lawmakers, in fact, in Turkey -- Anadolu-Trakya, since this region existed -- have been an important production area of beekeeping, because the plant diversity has been very rich, and the public has always had this breeding and production. However, in recent years, with activities of more modern beekeeping, our hives have been transformed into modern hives, our honey production has been partially increased by the hive -- of course, we have to admit that the levels are still below the hive -- and all of our people -- especially those involved in beekeeping -- have been included in a recording system -- sir, beekeeping registration system -- have been established in each province, converted into a central union of beekeepers, and have already produced honey, producing other beework, producing other bee products. They have been supported in various pencils, starting in 2003, and these supports continue to increase. Did it exist before 2000, before 2003? No. So, the AK PARTY, in fact, is the party that started the development and purposely support of beekeeping. Actually, here, I think we should thank you for that. From 2003 to 2008, friends, supports and incentives for the production of main bees and filtering honey have been supported by the hives starting in 2008, and today, all beekeepers included in the beekeeping registration system are supported by $10, $10 per hive. Is $10 a small number? It can be increased, more can be done, but, friends, the price of a hive, a hornet's nest in Turkey is around 200 dollars already, so from that point on its point of view, it corresponds to 5 percent each year. And that's not a very small number. Can there be more? Of course, it can be given in terms of the country's resources. More importantly, friends, we said that the beekeeping industry is a business made by people who are low on money. So in order to develop beekeeping businesses, to diversify their products, the Agriculture Bank, agricultural loan co-ops, the European Union-backed IPArd Project, they can get subsidized loans in agricultural loan co-ops, if they are able to get funding from rural development to 50 per cent, in significant amounts, up to 1.5m euros, if they are able to build a business, and they can get subsidies in the Agriculture Bank, if they can get subsidies in agricultural loan co-opts. In particular, those who have over 50 buckets of businesses can take advantage of this place very easily, if I want to expand my business and raise it above 50 buckets, and those who say, can also benefit from these subsidies. This is the activities of our beekeeping to be more conscious in recent years, to be more grounded, to see the future a little bit more clearly. Beekeepers, beekeepers, they know that, but that's not the end of it in our country. Of course, we also know that beekeeping has other problems that need to be solved, that need to be resolved, that need to be developed, that needs to be improved. In particular, it's about increasing support at the migrating bee point and contributing to the creation of winter zones for these migrating beekeepers, especially in agricultural areas, where bee-building is done by consultations with the Department of Agriculture, particularly the control of pesticides, especially during certain periods of time -- that's the most important thing to prevent this from happening -- the unconscious, timeless use of pesticides. This is also the main cause of the mass deaths of bee colonies in the world, especially in the United States of America. At this point, there are still steps to take in our country that need to be taken, but you should also know that the pesticide used in Turkey during the AK PARTY has been reduced by 80 percent in plant production, friends. 80 percent is a very important number, and instead of spraying from the air, its permanent impact has now been significantly increased by ground exterminating. At the same time, friends since 2002, the number of hives has increased by 57 per cent; this means transition to the modern hive at the same time. That's a very important number. At the same time, honey production in Turkey increased from 75,000 tons to 95,000 tons in 2002, which is an increase of 27 percent. It's an important increase, actually, but from this point on, Turkey can still produce a few times as much honey as this. He can produce honey, and Turkey is looking for ways to do it right now. The Ministry of Agriculture gives serious support in this sense, especially at the point where their business is growing. To prevent sugar use during the summer, the Ministry of Agriculture also provides subsidies loans to beekeepers if they ask them to. Now, Mr. Zozani also filed a complaint regarding the closure of the honey production station in Bitlis. In fact, my friends, it's not closed, it's been handed over to national real estate to be converted into a conventional production area. It was a department of agriculture and was transferred to national real estate. The national real estate later handed it over to the Bitlis Bee Growers Association, and with that, it gave very serious support from agricultural, rural development funds, and made it a honey-packing plant and a wax production facility, and made it a centre that could train regional beekeeping. At the moment, Bitlis was given serious support to become a very civilized, modern institution to contribute to beekeeping in Turkey and to the world's beekeeping. I expected Mr. Zozani to thank our government in that sense. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Perhaps if he made a promise again, I would like to thank him for this late thank you, all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0025par0318	Thank you, Mr. Sword. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Mr. Ali Sarıbaş. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0026par0322	Thank you, Mr. President. Very valuable lawmakers, I can't say outside agriculture and agriculture in Turkey, but one of the most important issues is beekeeping. Beekeeping is, in fact, a sector that currently occupys the most important issues of Turkey and has plenty of growers all over Turkey, but in Turkey, in the last 12 years, the production of honey in beekeeping has not been justified in the world and Turkey, as my speaker friend has just said. The main reasons for this are not just support of beekeeping and that the conditions in Turkey are good. In fact, we see that for 12 years, the conditions of nature where bees have been raised have been destroyed in Turkey. So when we look at all the arrangements that are made for him here, along with the meras, the environment, the mountains, mining and other medicines that we use, we see that beekeeping changes every day -- its own structure -- and it changes its own kind -- we see that our bees are disappearing day by day, and we see that they have difficulty making and producing sons and making them themselves. In this year's time, especially not in my friend's speech, but this year there's been a huge decline in production. First of all, the fact that it's full shows that the production of spring honey throughout Turkey has fallen, and the lack of rain is the main indication that it's fallen. In particular, there is no spring honey in our region during this period, and in that sense, our manufacturers are victims of this period. The beekeeping industry, which is in Turkey's 50,000 - capacity beekeeping hive, which provides a serious population's livelihood, unfortunately when it says "responsibility" in its interests, is a subject that is not much of an issue when it comes to the Ministry of Agriculture and Animalism. But in Turkey, including my region, it is beekeeping, which is particularly the livelihood of a large portion of Turkey's region. In this sense, in agriculture, in Turkey, when you say the iari sector, you know that there are five of the most important species of bees -- which belongs to Turkey -- and it's very important to protect them -- in the making of honey. No, it's about 16 and 17 kilograms/koloni in our country. Especially...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0027par0325	In terms of honey production around the world...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0026par0326	Sir, if you have any questions, I can tell you in private later. Just listen. For him, I really do benefit from expressing and caring for issues in this sense of beekeeping. And in that sense, if we were to count the problems of 50,000 of our people who actually make a living on beekeeping: 1) The problem is that they can't find enough Turkish resources. 2) The lack of the main institutions and institutions to consult in Turkey for the solution to the problems they face in production. 3) There are problems where a certain standard does not occur and does not exist in production. 4) The problems they face as they market the honey that they produce are very important. 5) We can list the problems that bees face in dealing with their illness. For him, I also know that the Ministry of Agriculture and Animalism is not interested enough in the solution of these main problems, especially in the units of beekeepers and in our region, the cooperatives are in trouble and in trouble with marketing. In particular, they have also expressed to us that the production of this honey, along with the production of it this fall -- the failure of its output -- should be supported within the issues -- should be supported within this year. In terms of honey, as I have just said, 85 percent of the difference between colonies is due to the environmental conditions, 15 percent of the country's honey efficiency is expected to be one of the highest countries, while we see that beekeeping is not developed in Turkey, despite its overall structure and problems -- data on the production and trade of its products and the very potential resource. My dear fellow lawmakers, in terms of marketing -- within the framework of today's laws, within the data of the Ministry of Agriculture -- in terms of today's conditions, packaging and exports, we see our beekeepers are turning to co-operating to solve their problems within themselves. However, even though they are moving towards co-op, they specifically say that funding for their own problems is not enough and they need to be supported. We also believe that the Ministry of Agriculture should support our beekeeping along with these laws by making special laws on this matter. On this occasion, 70 percent of the world's honey plants are being produced in Anatolia, while 40 percent of it is endemic plants, and I keep telling you over and over again that Turkey is not in place in terms of the quality of this honey raised with endemic plants in Turkey. My dear fellow lawmakers, we must remember that bees, especially bees, depend on the nature of today's environment. Here in Turkey, the diesel inputs in the transport of bees are the first demands of honey producers, the first factor. For him: 1) Mazot prices must be downloaded for beekeepers. We can't lower the main entry unless the price of diesel is lowered. 2) In the purchases of hives -- in the sense of scientific shell casings today -- I'd like to remind you, folks -- with a special discount on the support of co-ops and marketing of these fires, it's a prerequisite for providing them to our co-ops and troops. Again, I believe it's right to give our small peasant, our beekeeper farmer -- especially in this case -- a cheaper and longer-term loans on the marketing and packing of beekeeping -- to overcome the challenges of the law in terms of integrated facilities, and to be supported in this regard, because he cannot compete with international companies. For him, it is imperative that environmental conditions be improved first. In addition to the recent amendments to the Mera Law, the conversion of our mera Laws to the construction site, especially with environmental sensitivity, is one of the main problems of beekeeping, including the extinction of plants in nature, especially with the use of trees around us, and especially many drugs. Again, one of the most important issues of beekeeping in our country is the use of medicine, you know. Unfortunately, in Turkey, our farmer has to take cheap drugs and harms nature for using toxic drugs. In this sense, all agricultural producers, farmers, are more scientific, not to harm nature, are to be directed to agricultural medicines that are raised under the leadership of our universities, while the pesticides in agriculture should be supported, preventing toxic drugs, thus allowing our bees in the environment not to die by being given cheap medicines. We must not forget that when our bees die, when our bees are destroyed, as well as all the plants of the world will be destroyed. We must remember that the living of bees is equally precious to humans' lives and nature. A bee is part of life, a piece that completes nature, a creature that transforms nature. In this sense, I think that in Turkey, especially in terms of the value given to the farmer, the AKP should also provide diesel support and cheap credit support for beekeeping, and we should definitely get what he calls second-degree clearance in terms of the world's honey industry. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0028par0345	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Mr. Recep is a member of the Isparta Special. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0029par0349	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge against the group proposal given by the People's Democratic Party. The group proposal to investigate the problems of beekeeping and honey in Turkey...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0030par0351	Yeah, people's problems... are they the bees' problems now? Is it time for a bee?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0029par0352	...to set up a commission on this and bring in proposals for solutions... of course, any matter can be requested, research commissions can be set up. If all demands made by the opposition were met, I don't think we'd have enough deputies here, commissions couldn't stop working, I don't think we'd be able to run the General Assembly. Of course, beekeeping is often a social, economic activity in our country, which has been a tradition for many years. According to data from Turkey's FAO beekeeping 2011, Turkey is ranked second in the production of world honey production, with 6 million colonies after China approaching 100,000 tonnes. Turkey -- our country -- is among the most important countries in the world in both hives and honey production.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0031par0354	We're in the 2nd place, in the 2nd row.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0032par0355	Does a lawyer know anything about bees?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0029par0356	Given our share of the world's honey trade and our honey production per colony, it also turns out that we are not getting enough of our country's current beekeeping potential. On the other hand, it is not common in our country for other bee products to produce and honey bees to provide adequate pollination in plant production.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0032par0358	It rained heavily on Isparta. Tell me about the hail in Isparta.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0029par0359	Clearly, if honey production per hive is increased, other bee products are produced, and honey bees are more widely used in plant production, we will better assess our potential. The transition from primitive and gate hives to modern hives has been largely completed, increasing average honey production per colony.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0033par0360	Where did you do it? Where are these modern shells, show us?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0029par0361	While the ecological and socioeconomic structure of our country is capable of beekeeping all over the country, most of its Aegean, Black Sea and Mediterranean regions are among our most important areas of beekeeping in terms of production. In our country, which has the perfect conditions for beekeeping, there are also reforms to develop beekeeping and to achieve the desired production and exports. I'm here to remind you of the European Union's decision to stop importing honey from our country in the past years. Today, that is not the case.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0034par0362	How's he gonna fix the bee? How can a bee be reformed?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0029par0363	Right after I came to power, starting in 2003...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0035par0364	Say it before you read it.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0029par0365	... our support, which began with 200 beekeepers, has now been given to our bee manufacturers, with over 40,000 beekeepers and over 5 million cobs, and about 45 million dollars, for which we have no money, for which we have no money, for which we have no money. As it turns out, we've never victimized our farmers and producers in agriculture and livestock...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0035par0367	Tell me about the reforms, the reforms.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0029par0368	And we won't. Another practice is that our Ministry of Forestry and Water is now doing what Mr. Seyfetttin Bey, who was once a bureaucrat in the forest, building honey forests, support for this sector, support for this sector, support that has not been done so far, doing what he couldn't do at the ministry where he was a bureaucrat himself, building the honey forests...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0036par0370	Explain to me, what are honey forests? Where's the honey forest, what's the honey forest?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0029par0371	...for our honey farmers, for our honey makers. Now, I've come to tell you that he's about to be forgotten...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0037par0373	How many queen bees are there? Let's hear it.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0029par0374	I'd like to put an end to my words by sharing a proverb with you. And that proverb is: 'Asil is not horny, it does not smell of honey, but it smells of oil.' I say, 'It is butter'.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0038par0375	Tell me about the queen bee, what does queen bee mean...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0029par0376	The HDP declares that I will vote against the group's proposal, with respect to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0039par0378	Thank you, Mr. Special. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Wednesday (June 18, 2014), there is no consensus among political party groups, so I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. There have been remarkable developments in our political literature since June 10, 2014, and in the recent period of the issue of Cyprus, which we have given to the head of the MHP Group, and MP Oktay Vural of İzmir and MP of the MP of the MHP Group and Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoglu since 1953. The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) sentenced the State of the Republic of Turkey to pay 90m euros in moral compensation for the division of Cyprus following the 1974 Peacekeeping Operation. This decision, which directly and deeply contradicts the universal principles of law, is intended to influence the negotiations between the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (KKTC) and the Greek Cypriot administration (GKRY). In addition, the statements made by US Vice President Joe Biden during his visit to the GKRY on 21 May 2014 led to Turkish public opinion as to the future of the talks. Our motion to open a general meeting on Wednesday 18/6/2014 (now) was proposed to be read in the General Assembly on Wednesday (now) to give a thorough and comprehensive assessment of all these events and an opportunity for political parties operating under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to express a common will to the world's public. In favour of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, Ankara MP Yıldırım Tuğurul Türkesh. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0040par0392	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin my speech, I salute the High Council. As you all know, Cyprus is our national cause. The issues facing this national case today need to be discussed in detail under the roof of this House. Therefore, our group's vice presidents suggested that this issue come as a recommendation to the General Assembly as a Council of Counsellor, but it was not accepted. Here, the opposition's general proposals have always been seen by the ruling party as an unnecessary topic and a diversion of the agenda, but in the past months, the issues of Republican People's Party Manisa MP, Mr. Free Special, and in recent developments in Musul, the issues that our MP, Mr. Sinan Oğan, has raised on the agenda are as important as his ruling party, even more important. Dear MPs, as you all know, on March 18, 2014, the European Court of Human Rights made a decision referring to Dante's work of Divine Comedy about the terrorist leader. The shame of the decision remains fresh, while the same authority has taken a step towards granting legitimacy to Greece's 200-year-old Megali Idea. As it is known, the European Court of Human Rights sentenced Turkey to pay 90m euros to the Greek side on 12 May 2014 because of its operations in Cyprus in 1974. It is also thoughtful that the decision coincides with talks with speed and pressure, which we find suspicious, as if it were already smuggling goods from a fire. What is new here is only the new Turkey, which Mr. Prime Minister desperately dreams of, in a more accurate way, the AKP's view of Cyprus. For the first time in our Republic's history, a power is so ready and willing to give up the land, watered by the blood of a sainted martyr. This time, the AKP has acted earlier than the West and has taken the lead in the matter. On this occasion, I will sell like a father. I must declare that today the logic of Cyprus and the flesh have been transformed into flesh and life. Dear lawmakers, when we're called Cyprus, we look at the past, whether it's like this or what happened, and we look at it, and we remember it. For example, we would so desire that the late Menderes, which Prime Minister Erdogan tried to exploit at every opportunity, should be a fraction of the Cyprus approach. Cyprus has been a national case for the Republic of Turkey since 1953. In 1955 and 1957, the 22nd and 23rd governments, founded by the late Adnan Menderes, referred to the Cyprus issue as the cost of our nation. In August 1955, the deceased Menderes, whom we kindly refer to, was a continuation of the Cypriot Anatolia, and one of the main points of his safety. Indeed, in 1955, the late Menderes gave such a powerful national air in the interior of Cyprus that on 25 August 1955, the late Innu made a statement that it is our duty to show the world that the air of our domestic policy is also full of Cyprus. We welcomed our government's energy statement, which we had read in all the newspapers, which we had long been waiting for, about the matter of Cyprus and the imminent danger that threatened our brothers there at the same time. On this occasion, I once again remember the late Menderes, the late Inönu, and the late Squadron leader, who had once claimed the cause of the nation from this glorious bench of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There is no political mentality in Turkey's history that divides the nation and its representatives to this degree in Cyprus. From this bench about our Cyprus case, stop the negotiations. America doesn't like it, but I remember the late Necmettin Erbakan, who called me from America, who spoke enthusiastic and heatedly here, and who sweated after the talks of Cyprus, and I remember the late Necmettin Erbakan, who said with mercy and good. Of course, I remember and think of the late Bulent Ecevit. I remember saying, "We are not going to war, but to peace." I remember the national stand of the late Ecevit, who showed that the Turkish nation and its soldiers had not forgotten and would not forget their humanity even during a campaign. May Allah be pleased with them all and grant them mercy. Why am I telling you this? In our democratic life, in our great tradition of state from Menderes to Ecevit, every manager knew how to put the internal conflicts on the shelf when it came to Cyprus, and he sought as broad a national consensus as possible. And all of them have achieved a great deal in this. Do you know what brought Menderes and Inöneh, Ecevit, and Erbakan, and Demirel and Turkesh, and these great people together? The national case was the unconditional defence of Cyprus, the Turkish Cypriot and the genius Anatolia. Dear lawmakers, since the AKP came to power in 2002, our national values have been destroyed so much that Turkey has been damaged from within that we are no longer surprised at the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, our flag being taken down from the military union or anything else. In the outside world, the AKP's government has shown such a compromise towards the opposition to Turkey, that in the end, global forces can force Turkey to do whatever we want, and we can take everything from it. It seems that the same AKP's government has been so preoccupied with what has been happening in the Arab world lately that it has not had time to explore the Turkish world and the Cyprus case. Two conflicting statements came from the cabinet's two ministers on the day after the European Court of Human Rights announced its decision. This landscape confirms our claim that the Cyprus issue was not discussed at the last Council of Ministers or at the last National Security Council. Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Davutoglu found the decision offensive, while Mr. Atalay mentioned that the decision would not affect the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you can appreciate that at the beginning of my speech, I didn't give samples of our dead statesmen to make them sound good or to pass the time. History has shown us clearly what our country can overcome when Turkey is united in the Grand National Assembly, and what our nation can accomplish. This is our call to the AKP government: Gather your courage and suspend these talks that continue in Cyprus and are in no way in the interests of the Turkish Cypriots and Turkey. All parties under this great roof, let's get together and sign a joint statement. Let's condemn the political and Helenist decision of the European Court of Human Rights and point out that it is wrong for international law to be shaped against Turkey. I also believe that the European Court of Human Rights, in the 21st century, should be debated whether universal law has the ability to make decisions with objective criteria. It should also be discussed how such an institution, the ultimate decision-making point, should have biased decisions. Yes, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0041par0405	Thank you, Mr. Turkesh. Against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0042par0409	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group to oppose the party's proposal for Cyprus on the basis of the European Court of Human Rights ruling, and I salute you all. Mr. President, I would like to point out that the more valuable Istanbul is to us, the more valuable it is to Ankara, Izmir, Konya, Kayseri, Magosa, Nicosia, Lefke, Karpaz, and Girne. As much as the Sultan of Eyüp means to us, as much as Haci Bayram means to us, so much as it means to us, so does Sultan and our Umm-i Mama, and all our values in Cyprus are equally precious, meaningful. Our connection to Cyprus did not begin today or in 1974 or in 1573. It began with the dream of the Prophet, by the command of his Lord Osman. He was still a witness there. 1573, II. Selim, Lala Mustafa Pasha is one of our most important moves in history. 1974 may be one of the most important achievements of our republic, where we always retreat, lose, take one step at a time, take one step at a time. Dear friends, we have not been told about Cyprus's geopolitical position, we have not read it, we have not read it. It is said that the eastern Mediterranean, which dominates Cyprus, dominates the Mediterranean Sea. The American Marine Domination Theory has been shared, I've been told. It's a warship that can't swim. It's said, it's shared. However, over the last few years, they have uncovered a number of extra geopolitical significance. For example, natural gas has brought this political problem to a different place. For example, Turkey's life-water project -- 105km -- from Anamur to Cyprus, which will solve the drinking water of all Cyprus -- has added a whole new meaning to it -- the Plain of Mesary, our Northern Cyprus -- which is now unusable. Not enough, but the electricity supply project, which was to be laid out from Mersin to Girne, which had all its works in order, attributed a separate geopolitical meaning to Cyprus. The number of universities increased daily, the fact that we had more than 65,000 college students, thousands of foreign students from nearly 100 percent of the countries were in Northern Cyprus, in a sense, meaning that the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus was actually recognized. In recent years, development, transport, similar investments, art activities have begun to bring up a very different Turkish side in Cyprus, a very different Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. However, Cyprus is very important to us, not just to the Cypriots, but to the Turkish Cypriots. At times, it is unacceptable for some to say that Cyprus is a burden to us, even overstepping the bounds that we all refer to as "homeland" because of the slip of the tongue. Cyprus is not a cub; Cyprus is a country, with its flag, with its land. We have to get to know him first. If it's a puppy, those who haven't raised it so far and those who haven't taken the necessary steps are responsible. Cyprus is our country, Cyprus is our country, I think it should look at it that way. Dear friends, the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which is concerned about the group's proposal, is not the issue of today, but has taken significant steps to resolve this political problem long before the EC PARTY, and so have former rulings. However, one thing we all know is that the original application, which is the basis for this decision, was made long ago, but was put on the agenda after the application -- the third time in 1994. Until then, victims cannot be detected. It is either tried or cannot be considered because the sacrifices are mutual. However, for some political reasons, you know, a different legal ground has been established, as if unfairly made president of the European Union, accepted as chairman of the term, the Greek side has been decided to be recognized by the world and especially Turkey. Dear friends, the heart would love it if we could end this problem by now, more or less. Every time we, as Turkey, took a serious step in the international arena, two major problems were brought to our attention: One, the Kurdish problem was called: two, the Cyprus problem. Praise be to God, by the strong will of our government, Turkey's ancient problem, which is called the Kurdish problem, has been largely resolved. Hopefully, it will. We want the Cyprus issue to be achieved by Turkey's will, by the will of the Turkish Cypriots. If the Annan Plan had been passed today, we'd be talking about other things, not this motion. However, we regret to inform you that then our opposition and then the Greek side have sabotaged the process, as you know with excuses as soon as possible. If that plan were accepted that day, we wouldn't be having these problems today. But today, the decision of the ECHR is in front of us, and the pressure that says, "Get to know the Southern Cyprus." But, dear friends, when we look at the legal process of that law, that ECHR decision, I'd like to highlight a few issues. One of them is, you know, when you apply in 1994, you make a decision on the basics, but there's a victimship at the time, but I'll discuss the compensation later. He said, "It's 1994." The same process continued. As a result, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus set up the Moving Property Commission in Northern Cyprus and demanded that its victims be resolved here, taking precautions so that there would be no wrong wish. Interestingly, the ECHR acknowledged that this commission was binding in terms of internal law and that it was necessary to apply to the ECHR. That was a very positive step. By 2010, however, the Greek side, inscrutably seized the authority of this Commission and applied again to the ECHR. But what is even more incomprehensible -- in Egypt, so far, in the EU's stances in the process that assumes the rotating presidency of the European Union -- the European Union, which we have witnessed in every different form of hypocrisy during the democratic test, has made no noise about it, and in May 2014, Turkey's ECHR condemned it, conflicted with its own convictions, stepped down on its own side, and accepted what it had already said. But even worse, the ECHR has a basic principle that every lawyer will know. Although their application was fundamental, the states accepted the Greek side's application in its decision, despite different assessments of the law, and ruled to pay compensation for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which he claimed did not know even worse. There's a lot of legal reasons for that. Since I don't have time, I won't go into details. But this decision is a political decision, and the people who made it know it, and we know it. This political decision has no correlation with us, no response in the legal world, so it didn't sound too big. There is no way that this decision alone will be a response in the legal world, when 90m euros will be given to whom, whether the process on behalf of the applicants is valid, who are alive or who are not, what will be the victims on the Turkish side. For one thing, the fact that this compensation decision lasts nine years and ends at the time of renegotiation actually gives us an important clue to their intentions. You're going to wait nine years, you're going to come back at the end of nine years, and you're going to make that decision again in a process where the negotiations start, and the good intentions of both sides are presented. I think it's very clear that this is a step away from good faith, from law. The required documents of Cyprus so far are a process that demonstrates who are the dead, whether they are alive, whether they have not given the information required as technical requirements in a file, and whether the argument is intended to continue. I hope that by meeting with his opposition in our national problems such as Cyprus, by understanding each other better, as he has shown his will to resolve many of the fundamental problems that are tied to Turkey's feet, in Cyprus, with the work of all of us, that the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus is a well-known, respected state, that we will present it with the zeal of the Turkish Cypriots in Cyprus.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0043par0419	Thank you, Mr. Turan. In favor of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, Istanbul MP Osman Taney Korutk, please come in.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0044par0422	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, before me, I'd like to thank my dear congressman, who spoke on behalf of the Justice and Development Party, for what he said. He said, "Let's get together, we'll talk about these things as much as possible, we'll discuss them as much as possible, and we'll come to a certain line." That's what we agree, and that's what we want, and as I understand it, that's the point of the general debate proposed by the National Movement Party. Indeed, we should be able to support such important issues, national issues as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and support them. When we go abroad, we can unite on national issues when there are different views on many political issues between our parties. That's one of the things we need to be united on. But now I'm sure, after I've given this speech, maybe another friend of ours will talk, then it'll be put to a vote, and this motion for general discussion will be denied. Why is he being rejected? If the Foreign Minister were to come here and tell us what he wanted to do, what he had done, and what he had done with the State Department's staff, what he had just said was that this was a political decision, that the European Court of Human Rights had damaged this issue in this regard, that the government had foreseen what the government had predicted, what they wanted to do, what they wanted to do, wouldn't we be in a much more decent, much more conscious position if we were to support you? That's what we want. I've been on this stand a lot. Research motions, general consultation demands, all of which are rejected because they came from the opposition. I don't understand what you want to hide. So what's going on? What are they talking about behind secret doors, what are they talking about? Which one of the people is hiding? Now it's hidden, it's done in secret, it's done in motion, and there's a good outcome, and we say, "Yes, they did it for this, but look, they got the result." I'm afraid there's nothing good going on behind these secret movements, folks. There's something out there behind every covert move. After every covert move, we fall into positions we don't want as Turkey. But we say, "Here's what we'll all talk about. Let's talk about it over here. So let's bring in our ideas, and you guys come up with your ideas, and we'll take a national position, and we'll defend it all over the place. See, now that we're already having this meeting with a little turnout, those who don't agree, the motion isn't accepted. It's going to be called, it's going to be passed on to something else, it's going to be passed on to your honor, and it's going to be very well-intentioned, and it's going to be the right wish that I've attended. The Cyprus issue, which began in 1963, has not been resolved fairly, rightly, permanently, despite the past 50 years. The Turkish Cypriot side is indeed a victim here. Look, the Turkish Cypriot side and Turkey have always made every effort to resolve the Cyprus issue, supporting him. In 2004, the Turkish Cypriot side adopted a bilateral federation solution with a referendum held in northern and southern parts of the island, and the Greek Cypriot side rejected it. When the Greek Cypriot side rejected this, almost the same year, after which the Greek Cypriot government -- which only controls one part of the island, has no legal or actual authority in the other part -- was incorporated into the European Union as if it represented the entire island under the name Cyprus. This unilateral movement by the European Union has completely paralyzed the Cyprus issue. Because now the Greek Cypriots have no incentive -- no ex -- to pursue this problem as a bilateral, bilateral, co-founder partnership based on the founding will of the two equal constituents. What they're waiting for now is that the blessings of the European Union, which Cyprus is taking advantage of in every way today, are also seen by the Turkish Cypriot side, and the Greek Cypriots have gradually defected to that side and extended it to time, and as a result, the Greek Cypriots' membership in the European Union... The Turkish Cypriot issue is to be resolved in a way that is incompatible with the interests of the Turkish Cypriot people. That's what they're waiting for. In 2011, the seabeds in southern Cyprus were found to contain oil, serious natural gas. This serious natural gas presence has suddenly doubled the strategic and economic importance of the Cyprus problem, and so far, the Cyprus issue has been considered a political problem -- even a part of the defence problem -- while it is mentioned in the region that it can be used as a fixed aircraft -- this time Cyprus has now become a very serious strategic and economic area in this region, and for the first time in a very long time, the new negotiation process has begun. The European Human Rights resolution, mentioned by the two veterans who just spoke before me, contradicts this negotiation process. Because on the one hand you're negotiating, you're trying to solve the problem, and on the other hand, you're bringing it to a different legal level with a very high compensation clause, suggesting that there's no such thing as an invasion. Now, how does the government connect these two conflicting elements that we want to support the negotiation process? He's got to tell us about it. Could these two elements be on the table at the same time? Other than that, when the world became a fire in the Middle East, we don't know how right it is to enter a Cyprus talk behind closed doors when Turks, Kurds, Alevis, Sunnis, Shii, Assyrians are in grave danger. We don't know if unwanted compromises, unilateral compromises will come to the agenda or not. The Cyprus issue is the problem of Turkey as well as the Turkish Cypriot people, both spiritually and financially. In the negotiation process on this subject, how far is the understanding of shared sovereignty, duality, political equality, the understanding of the founding state of the two sides evaluated? There is talk of the European Union's validity at the primary level of law, but we need to see how the principles of conservation of existing civic status include natural gas and, of course, the principles of fair sharing of resources. And for Turkey, it's not just a spiritual thing anymore -- as I just said -- it's a material thing. Energy sources, energy security, defence, political developments in the region, the importance of the island is also crucial to Turkey. We need to discuss these issues thoroughly within the scope of a general discussion in this House. Cyprus -- as our friend mentioned -- is a separate state, a country known to Turkey. If this becomes too much of an agreement between the Greek Cypriots and the Turkish Cypriots, it should also be discussed whether it is right or not to put it in drag until the end. There is an idea in several articles by former British Foreign Minister Jack Straw, who says that there are much smaller states, and if not, there are two separate states, and then two separate states, if they agree with their own interests, if they see fit for their own interests. Turkey must now speak a little. What I've just told you is that with the Greek Cypriots' entry into the European Union, we may be able to re-integrate the encouraging element that has been eliminated, perhaps by the emergence of such a possibility. But to talk about all this, to discuss it, we need a general discussion here. With these thoughts, I support the request for a general meeting proposed by the National Movement Party. There's a point in that general request that should not be overlooked. It also mentions a joint statement by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. And I think it might be a very important element to ensure the unity and unity that you've just mentioned. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0045par0437	Thank you, Mr. Korutk. Mr. Ramazan Can against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0046par0440	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. First of all, our Foreign Minister, Jedde, is at an important meeting that concerns our state, our government, our nation. I declare you attending that meeting. On the other hand, our esteemed congressman, Bkent, had a nice talk with his tour, really briefed the General Assembly. I also want to thank Mr. Turan. On the other hand, I participate in the statements of Korutrk. Indeed, he gave a speech on a national matter that concerned our country and our nation, free of politics, or rather in the interest of our country. Mr. President, my fear is that this decision by the European Court of Human Rights is of course not legal, of course not binding, a political decision. However, as far as we're concerned, the compensation here is moral compensation. In other words, the European Court of Human Rights has adopted a violation of torture and property claims in 14 violations of the Greek people's claims. Thus, after 20 years, with the trial in 1994, compensation was denied in 2001, but it reached the altar in which the actions were violated. Here I consider the decision made on May 12, 2014 to be a decision for moral compensation. I'm afraid we need to make an effort to address the European Court of Human Rights in this decision, in a legal and logistic sense, by acting together both in terms of law and internationally and in our country. I would like to point out that I am concerned that 90m euros remain in a very small, symbolic amount when the financial compensation lawsuits for future claims of property are filed, and that we may face financial compensations that will put our country through further hardship. If we come to the analysis of this decision in 2001, the material facts have been reduced to subsidized, and in terms of compensation, the court has waived its hearing for compensation, so that we may decide at the point of assessment of possible compensations in the future. When it comes to May 12, 2014, unfortunately, it's about the Greeks living in the Karpaz region and the people who disappeared after the operation in Cyprus, and the compensation for the Greek part is 60m+30m, 90m euros. On the 17-member administration of the European Court of Human Rights, 16 members voted to accept this compensation, and 1 member voted against Light Karakash, and the opposition gave him a plea. We haven't had time to examine the opposition, so I think we should look into it and take advantage of it. Of course, global forces have always been able to influence decisions in international law, international strategic situations. As you know, the European Court of Human Rights acted on political debates rather than legal. Although it is not the legal binding of the decision, I think it is clear that the ability to conduct the decision, without the ability to apply it, has caused the process of resolution, the process of peace, the process of resolution, psychological distress. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as I just stated, are certainly not binding on this decision from the European Court of Human Rights in the context of international law. The timing of the decision also makes sense, as it is a universally ill-conceived, flawed decision. In Cyprus, there has been serious progress in the framework of comprehensive peace in the talks, while a new peace process is under way under Turkey's lead, while international public opinion is being directed towards this, and it has also negatively affected the process, as the chief negotiator continues to talks about the garantor states, both the Republic of Turkey and Greece, as well as the outcome. As a result, we share the same sensitivity as opposition parties in the events expressed in this group's proposal. Both our foreign affairs and our government follow the decision. This decision is a political decision, not a legal decision. It's not a legal decision, and it's not right to give up this political process. As I've just stated, cases for financial compensation are likely, and he believes that at the point of interception, we need to do our part by hand, both in terms of civil law and comparative law, and the group's proposal says that we will vote against the intensity of the agenda, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0047par0452	Thank you, Mr. Can. I'd like to submit the National Movement Group's proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I've had a lot of conversations that I've actually taken advantage of. Thank you personally. And without such a scuffle... The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's 18/06/2014 meeting on Wednesday (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Manisa MP Sakine Öz and 31 MPs have been appointed by the Parliamentary Research Front (1379 rows) of Turkey's Grand National Assembly in 23/05/2014 to determine the measures to be taken by the families of those who lost their lives in the mine accident in Soma district of Manisa to determine the extent of the trauma of the survivors. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations Wednesday (18/06/2014) and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, the Manisa MP, Mr. Sakine Öz will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0048par0466	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion to investigate individual and social traumas that have deepened and deepened the effects of the Soma mining disaster, to reach out to the region with a new and urgent hand by Parliament. I salute the High Council. We have suffered the deepest pain of our working life in Soma. Profit greed and privatisation have been following an inhuman course for years. As lawmakers of Manisa, we warned the government 13 times before May 13th, drawing your attention to heavy and long hours of miners' rights, social guarantees, compensations and control issues, burn treatment centers, and houses that are in grave danger because of the mine. I don't listen to everything, I don't accept anything you say. This tragedy, which the government has openly challenged, has not been resolved for thirty-six days, although it has not been resolved. The wages of our miners have grown deeper because of the stockpile of the coal-packing plant, the position of the tradesman and movers, the months of death, the deep trauma of our families, the indifference of the state, and the attitude of those who have lost their wife and son. I'm sorry to tell you, Mr. Lawmakers, we have all the numbers that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has announced. But these numbers never cover the public shame of the mothers in need of care who died in the disaster, and the social security of early birthing women, waiting by the hospital door, waiting by hand. As many of our mothers who put their pain into their children's bitter ration day look with desperate eyes to the future, while their employment and children bear the anxiety of the future, I see as one of the closest partners to the trauma of women: the cold face of the state has dominated Soma. We're dealing with a bad government that stalls, but doesn't speak clearly, that extends the trauma and the grieving process in false steps. While the ministry has explained that 30 families are in need of psychological support, there are hundreds of deep stories that are intertwined with economic problems, income and future problems in many of the homes we have reached, the problems we share. The rulers of the state still did not take a concrete step in order to overcome the great problems of women and children in Soma. With the bill that they brought before us, Soma clearly abandoned him to the subcontractorial ambitions of large corporations, the unemployment benefit fund, which was cut from the new worker they were going to receive. The bill that came in front of us with 61 articles exceeded 106. Soma grew smaller and smaller in this huge scheme. The positive, focused steps that we recommended for the care of the miners' spouses and children's families were often rejected in subcommittees. Dear lawmakers, we, along with unions and civil society, would like to make a separate law for Soma. The AKP is also seeking to turn the Soma pain into an opportunity for rich and ruling staffs. Those who refuse to overcome the pain together today have been concerned not with the supplements they bring to the commissioner's table, but with the distribution of barley to their followers on other matters, continuing to settle with the congregation on December 17th, spreading the subcontractor on every field. While we are pursuing those in Soma, state and company responsible, the AKP ranks are giving our miners a tax pardon, not a right to 45 supplements, but to the rich before the election. When the government had nothing to do with the pain in Soma, the HES projects, the additional watch on the health staff, the privatisation provisions dedicated to setting up court decisions, finding money for Railroad and PTT. The court brought regulations that missed the RTÜK broadcast tender from the back door. The bag is written in the law as an insult to Soma's grief, that if the school principals, police, judges and prosecutors decide to be extradited in cases against them, they will not wait for two years, while those who have not carried out the decision will be exempted from prosecution and investigation. Those who underestimate the trauma in Soma (Soma) and listen to the miner who groans for his labor leave their promise to the mining representatives in Ankara. Today, the AKP ranks that can't face their mining families, I ask you first: What have you been doing for a month? Why didn't Soma have a priority agenda in the Parliament, which runs the bag by law? I want you to know that every day the Somans watch your steps, and they never forget you, because you silenced the poor boy who wrote on the miner's payroll, and you called out to our workers, who said, "Bart miners are moving in with money and force." You've run out of faces to look after the mother of our 432 orphaned children. You watched the father who buried his sons, the father who had a kidney, the mother who had epilepsy, the wife who had given birth early, cut off her social security. Yesterday came payday, where was my prime minister? We didn't have a Soma politician to respond to the miner who opened the banner, but Soma was now a fixed TOMA. A large bakery, a painful home for women, beautiful eyes of my children looking far away, waiting for the minister, who wore the same shirt for two days, for 36 days, to take a step in Soma. Do not go down to the mines without proper controls in the mines in Soma. When we say, "You are silent again." You stood aside in the face of the uncle's company's summons to work. The mining families have been waiting days to hear from you because they survived the mine, but they didn't sign up for 486 people. It combines poverty with pain, but you listen to it. We're not 486, we're missing dozens of people and we have lists. No, you said the company's list. The condition of our 67 miners, who have not reached the primordial number of days, is still waiting for the law to pass, and you're not in a hurry. You've only mastered the ability to deny your own word, lawmakers. First there will be 36 hours of overtime in the mine. You said, last week, you changed the bill. You've put the time and time of landing in the mine out of 36 hours. We want eight hours of overtime at Soma. You tried to get a written petition from the workers, and you kept it pure next to those who forced the workers to sign. Members of lawmakers, so confident that death and poverty will never come near you, this corrupt understanding, which considers turning crisis into an opportunity, is the essence of politics today, giving Soma (a much greater pain). In Soma, we should be more attentive to the future of women and children. We shouldn't limit this trauma to the ministries. The primary agenda of the Soma Commission, which has been established, is not the trauma of families. That's why we need to be sensitive to the problems of women and children. A commission that will act on permanent solutions that will lead to the grieving process will be much more effective, objective, inclusive, and fast results, especially in the free use of public resources from our fellow miners, women and children. We await your positive votes for a commission aimed at salvaging wounds, where the workers, all community components and experts will be formed, with real demands, expectations, and needs taken to the focus of our mining relatives in Soma. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0049par0477	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Republican People's Party Group proposal against Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0050par0481	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we haven't been able to change this Civil Code, so to speak against it... we'll talk about it, my friends. When I say Soma, we're burning up. We've submitted several research proposals here, the need to be discussed, the mines, the flu, we've gone to Soma, we've studied in Soma, we've reported to Parliament. They threw it away. Our 2010 Mining Research Commission report has not been discussed in this Parliament, my friends. If it had been seen, this disaster would not have happened in Turkey. It happened. So, what's the government doing? What's the government doing? So we've been struggling with a bag of laws for 10 days. In this bag of legislation, we arrange for 301 miners who lost their lives in Soma. The public is being misled. What's it gonna be? The working hours are reduced, pensions reduced to 50, and the work is reduced to 36 hours a week. Well, brother, we have 50,000 workers working underground in mines, underground, coal, chrome, copper, all over the ground, and they work in coal mines under the most difficult conditions. In the 2010 report, why wasn't the measure taken, even though we reported that the flu disaster would go deeper and deeper? None taken. Now, what do you want to do with the bag of law? A small arrangement, two, followed by an opportunity to turn these sorrows into opportunities, to place particulate positions in the bag of law, to exploit them, and to bring this into Parliament as a bag, and to do so on the sufferings of our 301 citizens in Somah, this is not a moral stance, my friends. Look, every day we communicate with Soma. Thirty-six days. Only 485 survivors. The subsidiary paid $460 per person, $460, friends. There's a government that aims to put something into this bag of laws about the monthly commitment of the dead to their families and the delivery of the rights they deserve. For ten days we have spoken in this bag of laws, separate the Soma workers, separate the mine workers, and bring them out in two days. We say, "Let's get them out." We can't convince the government. Look, we have a proposal upstairs -- the mine commission -- we work in the bag of law on Soma. I work on the subcommittee, we're on the upper commission. I'm calling from here to the government: If you feel the pain of 301 workers in your heart, separate the arrangement for Soma mining workers, bring them, we'll legalize them in two days, that's all that's open. There are workers who don't get paid, friends, you know. There are workers who can't buy food for their children, so be wary of God, who have worked for 11 days and 15 days and not get paid. Now, aside from the 460 lira that my co-manager gave to these workers, the Social Aid Fund, to our people so far... this state, for God's sake, must bow down with compassion, embrace the pain of its citizens, support, sociology, psychology, the condition of the families, all of this... yes, the ministry, civil society agencies, the bar committees are going, and the platforms are not enough. This Parliament must have a duty, and if it's just the law, we're saying we should take this law out, but this Parliament's Commission for Human Rights Review, I ask you, has it gone to Soma? Don't the workers, the people who died in pieces in the gray, the bodies that were torn apart in the coal flames, the people who died, have human rights? Doesn't the worker have human rights? Shouldn't this Assembly's Human Rights Commission go there on the first day? Is there a TOMA right, my friends? Is the government the only one who has the right to gas when he calls? This cruelty doesn't cure you. Look, she's on the subject of the Women's Opportunity Equality Commission; she's part of the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission. You are in charge of this Parliament's Commission, all of them, and the presidential courts are in the hands of the AK PARTY. Don't you think it's in any of your space to set up a committee here and go there? You're not going to Soma. Shall I tell you what happened in Şırnak? Turkey's Coal Company has turned all their basins against the governorship. The governorship -- look, look -- bought these coal basins in exchange for redevance -- gave them to private companies first, then to thermal plants. Two units, three units, four units not enough, seven applications. Now two more companies have permission to use thermal power plants in Avgamasya. In ten days, five workers lost their lives in the coal mines in Şırnak. Has the Minister of Energy been there? Did the Department of Labor go there, check it out, see if it was registered or illegal? Well, let me ask you something: their village was burned down. They were immigrated. Now they're being lowered to death by a hundred meters, two hundred meters of rope, a can, a date, and their bodies are being pulled out of the bins. This is what the primitive furnace was like in the 1800s. This state, especially TKI, has subcontracted the government's businesses to the subcontractors of Turkey's Coal Company. Redevans must have responded. There's been a lot of dirty work going on in Redevan. Billions of money were taken. The citizen's billions of money have been confiscated. There's never been a rescue team or a gas mask to take out that citizen's funeral. That's how coal comes out. That coal goes to the thermal plants. Thermal power plants are leaking profits into companies, bosses. In those conditions, coal is being dug out. They provide energy under those conditions. They're polluting the environment under those conditions. They're profiting under the circumstances. The government's TİKÝ, at the government's behest, gives these subcontractors to these subcontractors, and these thermal plants are in dirty cooperation with power plants, friends. It's brutal capitalism. We have to remove subcontractorization with this arrangement. If you don't lift it, if you don't remove this exploitation order, people will continue to die everywhere in Şırnak, Zonguldak, in stone coal. Look, the Somalı workers I interviewed in the morning say: "We can't buy milk for our house, our child." For God's sake, we've had the last sensation that the Prime Minister's wife, the lady, has been helping us with some money. How... the Manisa lawmakers know better. So, is the government a social state or a social state, for God's sake? Why does this government end deep in the mines? Why does the social state of this state end in labor killings, labor killings? Why is he so insensitive? Is that the best step in 36 days? Look, we're discussing bag law. We've been waiting ten days for the Minister of Energy to come in this bag and tell him two things. They didn't send them, they sent their bureaucrats there. That's not gonna happen, guys. A little conscience, and we're all in debt to humanity, and we're all in debt to the House. Frankly, it's our call to all of you, so let's take a step forward.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0051par0495	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. In favor of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr. Erkan Akçay, please.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0052par0498	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received your word on a parliamentary research motion to investigate the traumas caused by the Republican People's Party in the Soma mining accident. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, on May 13th, in Soma, as we all witnessed and knew, there was a great disaster. This tragedy has not only shaken Soma, but all of Turkey, all of our people, and all of our nation, and it is still shaking. It's a common regret for all of us as a nation. And I would also like to point out that as the Manisa MP, we're talking about Soma now, but let it be known that I'm also talking about the mining accident and the disaster that happened in all Turkey and the last one in Şırnak. However, this disaster that took place in Soma, which has cost the lives of 301 of our people, has thus far been a Turnsol on all business accidents and catastrophes, especially mining accidents in all Turkey, and we're doing talks and studies on it. And those sufferings, especially their families, will also live as a bitter sadness and a memory in one corner of our hearts all over Turkey, including the towns and provinces in which that accident took place. Dear friends, nations are communities with memories, and those sufferings will leave a deep mark on our national memory. Now, we survivors and all of us responsible, all of us saintly members of the nation, especially the government of the Republic of Turkey, who must carry the responsibility of all state on their shoulders, as well as the government of Turkey, all of our institutions, all of our political parties, our civil society institutions, all of our media, all of our economic actors, all of the business peoples and the business world, as well as everyone else's collectively trying to heal these wounds from one side, and on the other side, we have to take the measures that we need to prevent these disasters from ever happening again, and I believe that we can take as many measures as possible, and that we can take as much of this country as possible. Our miners' wives, their children, their parents, their nearby environments and all of our miners in Turkey experience the most severe psychological, physical, medical, and sociological trauma of this great disaster, as well as economically. Right now, our people are about to overcome these sufferings, unfortunately, because the events of the accident after the 13th of May are feeding this pessimism. The promises, the promises, and what we have seen so far are unfortunately far from overcoming this pessimism. We heard yesterday, and I want to give you a very simple example, dear friends. In Manisa, 40 students in an industrial vocational high school are left behind for absence. Some of it is a normal student absence, but a significant part of it is that with the impact of this mining disaster, some of it has lost its relatives, and there's a great deal of pain in that county, and it should have been thought to be effective. So everything doesn't necessarily take place in a command. A school principal or manager there, teachers, could easily take precautions. Yesterday, our miners were unable to receive their wages, and that led to serious and right reactions. This happened despite all warnings. Just after the accident happened, we all asked, and the workers asked: "What will happen to us? Can we get paid? How will the security measures be? But we regret to see that the government was only left to watch. On June 4th, a bag came in the form of a bill, and they're still negotiating. As opposition parties, it's almost as if, repeatedly, we must remove these important, urgent items from the General Assembly. Despite our insistence, the government is still dragging its feet. So there's gotta be more problems than there was to be paid yesterday's salary? Unfortunately, we don't have the solids as of right now. Believe me, many of our citizens from all over the country, even abroad, flocked to Soma, hundreds, thousands of our citizens, and made a great effort to embrace these wounds, to provide material spiritual support for our citizens. Some government executives, Mr. Prime Minister's wives, and the ministers' wives also visited Soma. We also know that they were in some assistance, but what is the government doing? What's AFAD doing? What's he done now, what's he done so far? This doesn't work with charity. The state must do its part as a state as soon as possible. Some reports of rescue activities, deaths in the crash, reliefs, fees to miners, conflicting reports about reopening mines, the families of those who lost their lives in the accident, and the psychology of our miners and their families, who survived the accident, have been severely affected. Now there's a cloud of pessimism over that pain. After the accident, the Prime Minister's remarks actually triggered this pessimism. Death is in the fringe of mining. The statement of energy minister Mr. Star and some members of the special - dressed congregation, whom we later saw in the facebook, also had a serious negative effect on these families as they tried to deliver messages through the families of miners who lost their lives in the accident. Because they had to give their suggestion to the citizens, not to the victims of the accident, but to the state officials, the mine owners, and their rulers. Because no one of our miners who lost their lives in the accident has ever rebelled against fate. The rebellion of these families is for those who tolerate negligence, negligence, and negligence, and rebellion. When a miner's family sues Soma Coal Company for the death of his family in a mine accident in Soma, all of this company's assets are seized, they can't be paid. The arrangement we made yesterday is a very, very temporary arrangement, and there are many things that need to be done. Therefore, it has been greatly beneficial to all of you to consider a motion to investigate a parliamentary investigation into both this Soma (Soma) and these mining accidents that have occurred in all of our cities.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0053par0511	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Against the Republican People's Party proposal, Mr. Muzaffer Citizen, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0054par0513	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute the High Council. May God have mercy on our 301 citizens who died in the Soma mining accident, and my condolences to the rest. As soon as we got word of the incident, we were in the area with our Minister of Energy, with all the MPs in the region, with our deputy ministers. As a member of the Manisa MP who was established in our parliament and served in the Research Commission of 17 MPs, I will also provide information on the work our ministries, institutions have done so far. The Mining Accidents Research Commission visited Soma. He visited our miners, our martyrdom. He paid condolences. He met with surviving workers and other workers. He received their demands and demands. From the moment of the accident, our government mobilized all its resources, NGOs mobilized; national medical rescue team, AFAD, our Ministry of Family and Social Policy, our Ministry of Health, and rescue teams in private and other institutions were involved. A total of 2,743 personnel were involved in these studies. 258 land vehicles and nine aircraft have also made an effort to save individuals. Forty-eight hundred and eighty-seven of our workers were saved, and 301 of them died. The work continues on psychosocial support for rescue workers, survivors and injured survivors. Our Ministry of Family and Social Policy's county departments have reached out to all families, within 301 families, how many children do they have, their children's education situations, their debts, their needs, their demands, their economic status, and now they're being analyzed. And our Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Department of Social Services, has helped every family, each family, each family, each family, each of whom has passed away. In addition, our Ministry of Labor and Social Security has provided $465 for each family. To date, the work of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security has resulted in the death of 580 owners of 301 of our citizens and 632 of the 254. As for the remaining 67 dead, the legal arrangement for the monthly commitment is required, and that legal arrangement will be in our Parliament next week with a bag of legislation. Aids are being collected by the AFAD. These funds will be delivered to the relatives of the deceased, the injured survivors, in the form of financial assistance for the victims, equally and fairly. Our Soma Mineral Accidents Research Commission has quickly begun its work, and will continue to work until the results that will shed light on what we think is in total darkness, satisfy the public conscience. The commission has two important tasks: this accident was caused by the accident, the causes of the accident, the neglects, and will reveal them. And secondly, the work that will be done after this, the work on occupational health and safety, what kind of measures will be taken in mining from now on, the technologies in developed countries -- our mining commission -- will reveal them. Public opinion has great expectations of our commission. The eyes of the press, the victims and their relatives, our people will be on our commission. Everyone must be sure that we will be able to work hard. We have an important problem. We need to focus on solving these problems. We must conduct objective and transparent work by avoiding prejudices and prejudicial judgments. Without rushing the matter, but without delay, our commission will bring up all the details. There are many arrangements that must be made in the short and middle term. Last night, in our House, one of the provisions needed to be made in the immediate and short term. In the proposal of a law offering to change the Turkish Penal Code, a clause was signed by lawmakers of all power and opposition, and thanks to this clause, the production of these mines has been halted since the Soma Mines of Light, Eynez and Atabacai mines are currently short of work health and security measures and lack of necessary regulations. Thus, since the mining company, which has been assigned to pay the monthly payment of our employees around 5,800, now, with the offer we made yesterday, these workers will be paid by the unemployment fund and paid by the employer, along with interest from the mining company. I'd like to thank everyone who contributed to the arrangement. In the middle term, arrangements to be made will be included next week in what we call the law. What's wrong with that? The reduction of pension age to 50. The employment of one person near those who lost their lives in public. We told our 67 citizens that he couldn't get a monthly connection. Even when working in these mines for a day, there is also an arrangement for the pensions of those who have died as a result of a business accident. That way, they can be paid to 67 people we can't afford.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0055par0527	Tell me about the psychology of the citizens.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0054par0528	It is also included in regulations on how time on the ground is made to appear to be working underground.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0055par0529	I'm making this motion for him.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0056par0530	Mr. Oz, please, please, please...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0054par0531	We all have lessons to learn from here. The mining sector will be reconsidered and put on the table. Maybe it's just coal mines, because it's a property, and coal mines in the mines, and underground coal mining, it'll help to make an arrangement for it. The production of businesses that have failed to meet the issues related to occupational health and safety will be halted. So far, 114 mines have been shut down. The current mine is now in operation, and its inspections of occupational health and safety continue rapidly, and their production will be halted once their shortcomings are detected.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0055par0532	Tell me whether you accept the motion or not.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0054par0533	The arrangements for living rooms or oxygen masks -- God willing -- will be made shortly in the coming period. As the Manisa MP, I'd like to bring up one more matter in particular here. In our Manisa, we have eight organized industrial areas, many mines. We have forwarded to our ministry our work on the occupational illness of workers in this region and their diagnosis and treatment to three occupational hospitals currently in Turkey, and also the establishment of them in Manisa. Hopefully, we are asking everyone for support. Dear lawmakers, any word against the sadness and sadness of those left behind remains true. But it is known that we are with them as a nation. The work we've done so far, our miners, the miners... it's a very simple matter to close the mine. The important thing is that when we go there, the power is there, and the opposition lawmakers are all saying that we want to work. Make the mines reliable, we want to work here. It's up to all of us to make these mines safe for business health and safety and to contribute to Turkey's mining, mining sector, to open the way. The wages of our workers who work hundreds of feet below the ground are their rights to the fullest extent. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0057par0538	Thank you, Citizen. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0058par0540	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0057par0541	Not after I've said it.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0058par0542	You're not finished.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0057par0543	I was gonna take a break anyway, so...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0059par0544	I already have one.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit02spe0057par0545	Yes, I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. Two of our friends didn't get along, so I'm voting with the electronics, I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0057par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 105th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the Republican People's Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0060par0005	Mr. President, sir, on May 5th, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey agreed to a motion to investigate four ministers who were stealing.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0061par0006	Mr. President, does he have the right to speak like this about the ministers?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0060par0007	Wait a minute! What do you mean, no?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0061par0009	Mr. President, I'm going to have to ask you to implement the Civil Code. This isn't right! Are you in court? Are you a judge? You're a prosecutor?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0060par0011	Mr. President, from May 5th until today, June 18th, the investigation commission was not established. According to Article 100 of the Constitution, the establishment of the investigative commission at its fastest -- the establishment of its commission within two months -- should be granted two more months, if it cannot function within two months -- if it does not do so.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0062par0012	I get it.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0060par0013	The chairman of the Turkish Grand National Assembly is writing to the groups, and these groups are not giving members of the investigative commission.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0062par0014	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0060par0015	Now what? In Article 109 of the Civil Code, there is no sentence for the investigation commission -- which group, or -- of the group's time to report, but it says, in this time, it's worth something. Now, Mr. Cemil, chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, says... of course, Mr. Cemil is a man who is working to cover up these thefts and corruption.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0063par0019	Mr. President, what theft? Apply the Civil Code, he can't talk like that.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0064par0020	Now, Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0060par0021	Wait a minute, sir, the procedural debate...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0064par0022	I get it, but... Mr. Young, now, from where I sit...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0060par0024	No, no, I'll remind you of your mission. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must present to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey at each unification: "Hey, people of Turkey, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; look, the investigative commission was established on May 5th, but the AKP does not provide a member of this investigation commission." Since it has not done this presentation, I would like to have a debate on how the agenda should be held according to Article 63.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0065par0026	It has nothing to do with the procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0066par0027	Is that even a thing?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0067par0028	Well, then I'll put the debate on the procedure to your votes, see if we can open it or not.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0068par0029	No, don't, sir, you can't vote, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0067par0030	Wait a second...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0068par0031	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0067par0032	I don't have the right to vote on the legal debate.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0068par0033	Yeah. But you have to open it.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0067par0034	So, the right to open... no, there's no right to open it because it's not about my attitude.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0068par0035	Mr. President, the 63rd article says that the issue of the Parliamentary President's compliance can be raised in accordance with the agenda.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0069par0036	It's on the agenda, it's on the agenda, it's on the legislature. He's on the agenda right now.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0068par0037	Ahmet, don't talk now...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0070par0038	That's not on the agenda, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0068par0039	No, no, look...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0071par0040	Mr. President, what in God's name is he seeing? Every time...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0070par0041	What should I do now, Mr. Aydın?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0071par0042	But every time I come out and...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit03spe0070par0043	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger. That's enough!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0070par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 105th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. 1st place, Turkey's Grand National Assembly Proposal for Change...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0072par0004	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0070par0005	...and we will resume negotiations with the Constitutional Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0073par0009	Mr. President, I have a request, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0074par0010	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0070par0011	Yes, please.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0074par0012	Mr. President, Mr. Kamer Genç has just made a request for a procedure debate over the establishment of the parliamentary investigative commission because the Justice and Development Party has not reported members so far. Of course, it's not a matter of direct concern to you as a person, Mr. Coral Akşener or as Vice President, but since the Speaker of Parliament has not taken the initiative on this issue, this investigation commission has not yet been cleared. So, let's open the discussion of the procedure requested by Mr. Kamer Young, and let's discuss it, sir, because so far the Justice and Development Party Group has prevented the commission from being formed by not reporting these members.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0070par0013	Now, legally...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0074par0014	And by the end of next week, by not reporting it, I'm going to put the House on vacation without setting up an investigation commission.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0070par0015	Mr. Hamzacebi, now, I am a man who strives not to offend or hurt any of the MPs under the roof of this House; I try not to interrupt, I try not to interfere with their speech, that's number one.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0074par0016	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0070par0017	And I've met all the demands of opening a formal debate, but I've been informed by law that I'm not allowed to argue in any way or even vote in the form of a vote. So now there's nothing I can do. I mean, why don't you guys...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0074par0018	Sir, now, if the House President had reported the commissioners, it would have been on the agenda of the House. He created the agenda by not reporting those names to the Speaker. So what it should be is an agenda for the members of the investigative commission to be read to the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This item has been blocked from the agenda. That's why we're discussing the procedure, sir. Article 63 is clear, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0070par0019	I get it, but you found me! Okay.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0075par0020	Sir, don't ask them, they don't know.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0076par0021	Mr. Kamer knows everything!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0075par0022	He's not keeping up with the agenda, Speaker.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0077par0023	Now, Mr. Hamzacebi, normally I can't argue with you about the procedure, but the way he argues about it...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0076par0024	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0077par0025	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0076par0026	Now, Mr. President, the procedure...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0077par0027	We had a problem like a ball of light. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0076par0029	But it shouldn't be a problem, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0077par0030	Whatever. No anger, no anger, okay.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0078par0031	There's a problem, okay, there's a problem.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0076par0032	Now, Mr. President, is there any way that we can have a conversation about every matter, is there such an possibility, that the Civil Code will allow it? No.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0079par0033	Sir, he's in the presentations, Mr. President, in the presentations.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0080par0034	Now, I have listened to you, and I have listened to Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0076par0035	Civil Charter 63 is very clear. The agenda is clear. It may be requested in connection with an agenda. Besides, we're off the agenda and we're on the agenda. Our agenda is clear. It's not about the agenda; it's about one. Second: There is no such thing as the alleged issue. The Republican People's Party, however, has not already named it according to the Constitution, according to the Civil Code 109, and by law, they have not named it. Because we've had objections about it, and the Speakership has approved these objections, along with their reasons. Therefore, the names they gave are not legally valid. They don't seem to have a name right now.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0081par0037	How do you know that?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0076par0038	Mr. President, I'm finishing. Because the Civil Code 109 is very clear: MPs who have submitted the parliamentary inquiry motion or had previously expressed their views on this matter in the Grand National Assembly or outside the Turkish Parliament, which under the Law of Criminal Law would prevent judges from looking at the case or entering the verdict, cannot be elected to this commission.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0081par0040	That's different!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0076par0041	We objected to them because they gave the MPs who had expressed their views, our right objections were justified, and therefore the Republican People's Party has not legally named them, as they are now unable to renew their names.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0082par0042	That's another matter.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0083par0043	I mean, it's getting longer and I'm going to open it.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0084par0044	Before that, I have something to say. Our request for a formal debate is separate.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0085par0045	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's not legal.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0084par0046	Mr. Ahmet Aydın has been harassing our group, sir. I mean, he made an assessment of the names we gave to the investigating commission. Our group must have said something against the truth as if they'd never made a name for themselves. I want word according to Article 69, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0085par0047	I didn't speak on the stand. He's speaking in his place, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0086par0048	Now, wait a second...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0084par0049	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0086par0050	I get it, I get it, and I'm going to explain an attitude. Now, do I have to explain the attitude, and that's the end of this whole bullying thing?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0084par0051	Sir, let's discuss the procedure as well, but he's been picking on me.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0087par0052	Mr. President, for God's sake, is that true? I mean, they'll say anything. And I didn't speak on the stand.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0086par0053	Okay, now you'll be bullied, and you'll be given the floor. We started with the best. In the name of God!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0087par0054	But I mean, that's not the way it should be.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0086par0055	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0088par0056	Mr. Aydın, I'll tease you, you'll get a say in this. So, you can come up here.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0087par0057	No, no, you don't have to tease me. I'm not interested in talking like that.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0088par0058	Mr. Aydın has made one thing clear, and I thank him. We've given the Speaker 12 names to take part in the investigation commission. Aydın says: "We object to those names. " How do you know that these names are between us and Parliament Speaker?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0087par0059	What do you mean, how do I know?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0088par0060	Is the Speaker sending these names to you in order to see if they've been paid or not?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0089par0061	You don't follow the press?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0087par0062	You don't follow the press?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0090par0063	It was in the press, in the press.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0091par0064	You were caught red-handed.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0087par0065	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0092par0066	The papers wrote it, sheets and sheets.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0091par0067	Now, we've reported these names, and the Speaker of Parliament said: "There are some who have been made available." So with your surveillance, it appears that he has informed us of these names. No, the General Assembly is actually in charge of that. If there is Ihsasire, it is the General Assembly who will consider it. He insisted again. All right. We said to get that gun out of your hand. We also called those names to the Speaker of Parliament. 12 of our names stand in the House, but the Justice and Development Party Group hasn't announced a single name yet. If you flee or do not flee, come forward and say, "We will inform you of all these names tomorrow." Are you in? You can't. Now, look, I'm giving you a say in saying you can't say that. I'm waiting, Mr. Aydın, if you're not afraid of the establishment of the parliamentary investigative commission, we'll report these names tomorrow. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0093par0070	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0094par0071	We gave the motion, we gave the motion before you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0093par0072	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0095par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Once, from December 17th, here, until May 5th, you'll make some allegations, make a bunch of unwarranted legal claims, and you won't demand an investigation commission, even if you can count.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0096par0075	If you're not afraid, then why didn't you prove it?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0095par0076	At our suggestion, at our request and at the first time the AK PARTI came to an extraordinary meeting, we said we would set up the investigation commission in 19. We submitted the request for the commission for the investigation.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0097par0077	You were scared, you couldn't come...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0095par0078	And it's the AK PARTY, which demands the establishment of this commission, which leads to the establishment of this commission, you couldn't stomach it.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0097par0080	But you still don't give names.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0095par0081	You've only acted on rumors, slanders. I'm sorry. If it were our fear...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0098par0083	Don't run, Ahmet, don't run!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0095par0084	If anyone is wrong, whoever is doing it, we will not stand on the side of the wrong.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0099par0085	Don't protect thieves, don't defend theft.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0095par0086	Didn't we demand that? We requested it.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0100par0087	You've got 300 or so MPs, lawmakers do their job.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0095par0088	Secondly, the Civil Code is very clear, who can be a member of the investigation commission and who can't be.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0101par0089	Look, on your way to the presidential election, you're going to protect the thieves.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0095par0090	By violating this Civil Code, you demanded those who had been given the favor and wrote them in the press sheets. It's not a secret, it's not unknown. Thus, we said: "You will give the proper name of the Civil Law.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0102par0091	Ahmet, did you give a name? Names, names!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0095par0092	We have 313 MPs; we're investigating every single one of our lawmakers, and we're keeping whoever's doing a good job out of it. When we do it, we do it solid, we do it right.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0103par0093	You're doing a good job of stealing, too.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0095par0094	We call upon those who do not do good in this matter, and we place them, and we do not do business symbolically, as you do, in an irregular way, as if they were doing business. (CHP and MHP rows) When we do it, we do it right, and the public appreciates it. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0104par0097	Ahmad, defending thieves doesn't suit you, Ahmet.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0105par0098	Yavuz said the thief fired the landlord.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0104par0099	Are you a member of the foundation, Ahmet? You're a member of the foundation.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0106par0100	What a disrespectful man you are!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0104par0101	Are you a member of the foundation, too?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0107par0102	Now, in the meantime, we're finishing up our discussion of the procedure. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0108par0104	Mr. President, we called an extraordinary meeting on March 19, 2014, with the participation of the Republican People's Party, Peoples' Democratic Party, and independent lawmakers to read the proceedings in order to form a parliamentary inquiry commission.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0109par0105	Why did you call? What was your request for a meeting? It wasn't the investigation commission, we opened it.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0108par0106	You ran away, you didn't get in, you didn't get in. You waited at the door so we wouldn't have majority, and when did the majority get in?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0109par0107	On what request did you assemble the House?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0110par0108	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0108par0109	On the same day, we submitted a parliamentary motion to investigate four ministers.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0109par0110	Explain to me what request you have assembled the House.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0108par0111	We submitted those motions on the same day. And you gave it to me in a hurry. Then these motions... your motion was not in accordance with the Civil Code, it was wrong. That's what we said here, that's when we said, your motion is wrong, it's not in order, it's against the Civil Code. In a panic, you changed it, you changed that motion, you came to what we said.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0111par0112	You didn't make a motion, then. You called a meeting and you had no motion.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0108par0113	The commission of investigation has been set up here at a meeting, but since then, as the Justice and Development Party Group, you've been avoiding assigning members to the investigation commission.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0112par0114	We're not running. We're gonna give you a real, solid, real member.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0108par0115	Look, Mr. Aydın, I've just paged you from here, so go out there and say it.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0112par0116	We're looking into it. We'll give it to you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0108par0117	If you're not running, tell them we'll report those names tomorrow. Come on, I'll give you till Monday, not tomorrow. Come on. All our names, 12 of our names are there. The Speaker said that he had done something wrong, that we don't agree, but we don't want to create an obstacle to the establishment of this House's investigation commission. We don't agree with his opinion, but we did what he said, and we gave him 12 names, and the Speaker has it. You don't have a name yet, you can't report it, and you're not saying it here. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0113par0120	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0114par0121	Mr. President, I'm just saying, for the record here. First of all, I've just said, we have 313 MPs, we're going through it, we don't run from it. We'll give you a solid member of the Civil Law. Second of all, this is not the reason why they called the assembly to an extraordinary meeting, but during the extraordinary meeting, we, the EC PARTY, said that if you do not set up the inquiry commission, we will. On top of that, they demanded it later. AK PARTY will stand behind you, this commission will be set up, sir. There'll be a commission, and we'll give you a member.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0115par0124	Mr. President, did you have a formal discussion, sir?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0116par0125	I haven't opened it yet.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0115par0126	But I mean, open it.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0116par0127	Now, look, I've never used an order to anyone until today.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0115par0128	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0116par0129	You're ordering me!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0115par0130	I demand it.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0116par0131	You demand it, but look, I haven't opened my mouth yet!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0115par0132	All right, don't open it. I mean, I demand you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0117par0134	Mr. President, what in God's name is this?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0118par0135	I don't know, I have no idea what happened!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0115par0136	I mean, I demand you, I make you an offer.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0119par0137	Mr. President, are you running the House, or is the deputy running it, dear?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0118par0138	Now, Mr. Young, do you know what I'm saying right now?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0119par0139	That's enough! Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0120par0140	Yes, sir, I'll wait.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0118par0141	You don't know why you're commenting!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0120par0142	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0118par0143	They've only responded to teasing each other, and we haven't been able to get there yet.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0120par0144	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0118par0145	Reverend!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0121par0146	Oh, that's a shame, word of honor!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0118par0147	Congressmans, what Mr. Hamzacebi has stated is not related to a business that is on our agenda. In accordance with the principle of commitment to the agenda, the procedure discussion of an issue that is not on the agenda is not open. The investigation commission is being carried out by the presidential office to determine the membership candidates. I'm opening up a discussion of my position that there is no way to open a legal debate on this issue.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0122par0148	Against you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0118par0149	Okay, okay. I know you're against me, my dear, and I know him the oldest in this House. We're two of our oldest friends, but...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0123par0150	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0124par0151	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0125par0152	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0126par0153	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0127par0154	Mr. President, I congratulate you, sir, that the grounds for a formal debate were extraordinary.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0128par0155	I mean, I've been an expert in law-bending for two days. Now, in favor of Doğan Kabbat, Ahmet Aydın, Yusuf Halaçoğlu, Alim Ik... There's a gap in the appeal.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0129par0158	I can talk, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0128par0159	Okay, Alim Light will speak against you. Mr. Kubat and Mr. Aydın are in favor; Mr. Young, Mr. Light is against you. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0130par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, your attitude was correct. It's just that you've faced a number of demands about something that isn't on the agenda, about something that we haven't discussed, about something that we haven't discussed, about something that's not happening, that's trying to bring it here in peace, and try to bypass the agenda. Yeah, well, since it's not on the agenda, it's not supposed to be a subject to a formal debate, but I'm thinking maybe we shouldn't have brought up a procedure like this here. Because we're discussing the procedure right now, and that's actually what we're discussing, not just the way we argue, but the way we do things. So this will take us nowhere in the future, but I'm just saying this for the last time. In the meantime... Because there's no need to make a play here. The 63rd article of the Civil Charter is very clear, whether there is room for discussion on the current agenda, whether the President is on the agenda, whether he is invited to comply with the working procedures of the Grand National Assembly, whether he wants to move one matter forward or put it behind him, before other matters are discussed, he says. There's no agenda here, no invitation to the working procedures of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and nothing else. So we're going to talk about the Çanakkale Gelipoli Bill, which the Presidential Court has already put on the agenda by the Council of Advisors. We should have gone through the negotiations on that bill by now. Besides, you've already made your point, and it didn't happen before it came up. You've been on the agenda, you've also stated that you've been on the agenda, but unfortunately, here's a friend of ours, Kamer Young friend, who, in every case, is a young friend of ours, who's always been young, every time, in an unlikely situation, he's been bringing up a number of arguments, he's trying to disrupt the House, he's speaking the language of insult, he's talking to all the people here, he's speaking to all the lawmakers in the eyes of our people in a way that is not appropriate for all of our people. For him, first of all, he's the one who needs to be warned. If he does not give up by warning, the relevant criminal action must also be carried out if we are to run the Civil Code. We have to conduct this in accordance with the Constitution, the Civil Code, and Parliamentary Conventions, which we have to manage. If we ignore the Constitution, if we put the Civil Code on the shelf, if there are no regulations, then it will be very difficult to manage this Assembly. Dear friends, with his opposition to his power, the House of the People, the Veterans Assembly we boast of, the Parliament, which governs Turkey, says that we all need to pay attention to our actions and actions in the Parliament, where all problems are resolved.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0131par0167	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0132par0168	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0131par0169	On the contrary, Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0132par0170	Mr. President, I'm not against... at first, he teased me, he spoke out of turn. If you'd like our friend to speak up, I'd like to speak up, but then I'll speak up. He insulted me very badly, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0133par0171	Now, Mr. President, he's going to say, "Thief!," he's going to say, There's nothing wrong with them.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0131par0172	Now, look, talking outside the box... What are you saying?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0134par0174	Mr. President, I beg you, let me take the word without taunting, and then let my friend speak against me, and then I'll speak to him, but he picked on me, sir. I'm sorry, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0135par0175	Mr. President, you're condemning 550 MPs to one MP!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0131par0176	I'll add a minute, please.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0134par0177	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0131par0178	You're speaking against me, I'll add a minute.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0136par0179	We're being sentenced to a congressman, for Christ's sake!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0131par0180	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0181	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, look... You've given me three minutes again, so...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0131par0183	No, I'll add a minute.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0184	I've been working in this Parliament for over thirty years.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0138par0185	Too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0186	Look, Ahmet, now, you said out of line. Look, friends, now, the 100th article of the Constitution says...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0139par0188	Don't pull the coven so low!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0189	Hey, listen to me! Listen, learn something!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0139par0190	I'm not listening. Do I have to listen? Enough!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0191	The 100th article of the Constitution states that the investigating commission works for two months, and at the end of the two months, if it does not finish its report, it will give two months. In addition, the Civil Charter of the Civil Code includes the establishment of the investigative commission of 107, 108, and 109, and states how it will work and how it will report. Well, now, there's no time for groups to join the investigation commission. What are we gonna do, guys?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0140par0193	We'll change the charter.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0194	If the group doesn't give members to the investigation commission, will we wait two years? The investigation commission is a very important institution. What's going on in this institution? The ministers have committed theft, the prime ministers have committed theft; there are serious allegations against them; they are thieves of the Turkish National Assembly. According to the Penal Code, a decision must be made.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0141par0196	Mr. President, would you invite him to speak in a clean language?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0142par0197	The House does not say that, it says that it should be investigated. It says that it should be asked.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0198	Here, this matter of corruption and theft must be determined by a commission channel set up by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as soon as possible. Now, look, the investigation commission was established on May 5th, today is June 18th, two months past, and the AKP is not giving out members. The Speaker says: "Do I have a rifle?" No, you don't have a rifle. Here, Cemil Cicek, you act as a militant of the AKP.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0143par0199	What kind of language is that?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0144par0200	Mr. President, the House also insults the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0201	If you're not acting like a militant of the AKP, you're going to say here every day on the agenda you've brought in: "O MPs, you Turkish people, this Turkish Parliament has accepted the motion to investigate these four ministers, but the AKP won't sign up for this investigation commission."
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0145par0202	As big as the AKP, rock on your head!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0203	You'll announce it from here, and you'll say it in the presentations. People, this AKP does not give members of the investigative commission. Let these people hear.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0146par0204	You're telling me, they don't give you credit.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0205	But Cemil Flowers doesn't put it on the agenda. The purpose for me to open a formal debate here... is Cemil Cicek, who says: "I don't have a rifle in my hand. You don't have a rifle in your hand, but you are a militant who covers the thefts and corruption of the AKP."
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0147par0207	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0208	Wait a minute, sir, wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0147par0209	Mr. Young, look, you're under oath because it's called "out of order," so don't...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0210	After that, you're going to say that people will say that the AKP does not give members to this commission of investigations. Let him explain.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0148par0211	Put on your manners, your manners.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0149par0212	Mr. President, do as you're told.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0213	Therefore, the public must know that the AKP has not assigned a member of the investigation commission here.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0148par0214	You talk like that every time you go out.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0215	Because they have a goal: to cover up corruption, theft in public until the election of the President. So, did you, as an honest and honorable group, grant the motion to investigate, or did you agree?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0150par0217	Don't say words like that, man! Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0218	Why don't you sign up for the commission, and why don't you give this commission members after two months?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0151par0219	You don't have the means to measure honor and honor.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0220	So you're trying to cover up the thefts, you want to back up the thefts, you don't want people to know the truth. Call in the members of the committee. Can't it be reported in two months? What are you afraid of?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0151par0221	Mr. President, we don't have to hear these insults.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0222	Because your thefts have been registered because you're guilty, because you don't have a face to face.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0152par0223	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0224	Because it's against the moral code. So, by not reporting the commissioners here, you insist on footing to cover up the thefts, corruption, and the Speaker is helping you, and Cemil Cicek is already providing you with a huge share of this power.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0153par0226	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0154par0227	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0137par0228	Let's explain it if you want, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0155par0230	Yeah, one second now.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0156par0231	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0155par0232	I'll give you my word, but let Mr. Light speak.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0156par0233	I have to make a point of this, Mr. President, before this is completed.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0155par0234	Okay, here you go. So, if possible, make a speech that won't be answered, and let's get this over with.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0156par0236	Mr. President, first of all, the public is watching, and you're following what your friend is saying. Look, for once here, you need to protect the Speaker's office, the Speaker's office. That's what he said... the third chapter of Article 161 of the Civil Code is very clear, and I demand it from you. During the talks, it would require a temporary punishment for insulting, insulting the President, or threatening the President, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the President of the Grand National Assembly, and the Chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Vice President of the Grand National Assembly, the Vice President of Turkey, or for cursing the Turkish Republic or its Constitution.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0157par0238	Please, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0156par0239	He calls the Speaker a member of parliament, he insults the Speaker by name, he insults the entire group. We would like you to run the Civil Code as acting chairman of the EC PARTI Group and punish us with a temporary suspension of at least three days. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0158par0242	He told the truth.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0159par0243	No one comes but you. Let the commissioner finish this.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0160par0244	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about teasing.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0161par0245	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0162par0246	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0163par0247	Shame on you! That's a lot of criticism! For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0164par0248	Look, Ahmet, I'll explain your companies.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0163par0249	Just do what you're doing!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0165par0250	Mr. President, don't let that sound like that.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0166par0251	Mr. President, I believe you'll make an assessment because you made a statement like that, but you promised Mr. Aydın when he first requested a statement. It is up to the Speaker to make the necessary statement regarding the office of the Speaker of Parliament, to make the evaluation. In addition, Mr. Kamer has made a strong criticism against the Young Speaker. That was a harsh criticism.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0163par0252	What a pity!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0166par0253	No, if there's an insult, I may have missed it.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0163par0254	You're going to say 'thief', you're going to insult 'em, you're going to say'militan'...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0167par0255	It's an insult, an insult, an insult.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0166par0256	Look, I certainly don't tolerate insults, I certainly don't. Look, I don't care if I'm part of my own party, but I took the words in their speech as a harsh criticism.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0168par0257	Ya, he's calling the Speaker of the House, the Speaker of Parliament.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0166par0258	If there's a different opinion, of course you can.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0169par0259	The deputy of the AKP, the deputy of the AK PARTY, calls him the militant.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0166par0260	He used the word "militan" for the Speaker of Parliament. Militan is a harsh word of criticism, not an insult.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0170par0261	Where does it say he's tough?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0169par0262	I think it's an insult.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0171par0263	Why don't you punish me? I'm asking you to punish me.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0170par0264	That's a harsh insult.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0172par0265	If they are asked to act according to the Civil Code, let them observe the Civil Code, and let them appoint men to the investigative commission.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0171par0266	Mr. President, it's my right to tease you, so after teasing you...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0173par0267	Sit the fuck down!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0174par0268	Now, look, from now on, it's my turn to ask for it. Let me finish this. After that, I'll make a statement. After that, please... I mean, everyone's exploiting my goodwill, dear! Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0175par0270	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath against your position, but I would like to express that I have to speak against the Parliament Speaker's position, as I speak in favor. As it is known, on December 17th-25, the public's agenda of corruption and bribery operations involved the names of the four former ministers in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and on March 19th, our Assembly met with an extraordinary call to the opposition party's request to read the proceedings in parliament at a time of holiday due to local elections. Then the AKP Parliament members waited outside, they didn't come; the opposition couldn't provide a majority, the proceedings could not be read, the irregularities and corruption prior to these local elections...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0176par0272	We were here, I was here.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0175par0273	You were outside...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0176par0274	I was here.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0175par0275	Or the majority of you weren't here. Therefore, the opposition majority has provided, parliament has opened, negotiations on these issues have unfortunately been rejected as a result of a secret vote by members of the AKP (AKP) Parliament to prevent the proceedings from being read. So, as all lawmakers, you've already established the deed here that day, and none of you can be a member of the investigative commission.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0177par0278	Why don't you ask around?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0175par0279	Therefore, you have sinned, and you have sinned.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0178par0280	What crime is that?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0175par0281	Because in those ballots, you voted not to vote on these allegations, not to read the petition here. That's why you can't get a member so far.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0179par0282	You used it, and neither can you. That doesn't make sense.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0175par0283	Because we're the opposition party MP, we have to make a statement, we'll do it, we'll continue to do it. Our views on the theft and corruption of these allegations will continue at all times in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The President of Turkey's Grand National Assembly has misused his position because it is the General Assembly's decision that his statements regarding the names of opposition parties cannot be a member of this parliamentary investigative commission, and the Speaker of Parliament cannot. Because this will is given to the General Assembly in the Constitution and the Civil Code, the Speaker of Parliament has no such duty, no such duty. The AKP has no right to reject members of opposition party groups at the request of the AKP. We'll appeal to the judge on this matter. I'm speaking as one of the members of the National Movement Party. Therefore, before our opinion is revealed, the Speaker cannot refuse my commission membership, nor does he have such a duty. Therefore, the Speaker abuses his position. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit04spe0180par0286	Thank you, Mr. Light. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0180par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 105th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Congressmans, you are aware that we are running our legislative activities on a fixed agenda. The political party group proposals for the change of agenda issues were also processed in the part on the agenda. There is no change in our attitude that we cannot discuss anything outside of our agenda. In order for us to continue our work on matters on our agenda in a healthy manner, it is important for us to carry out operations in accordance with our Civil Charter, to do our vows accordingly, to use a clean and constructive language and style in our talks. I remind you that each member of this House has an obligation to maintain and maintain the dignity of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. From this moment forward, I think it would be appropriate for us to move forward with the discussion of the locations of the events of our history, such as the Canakkale Wars. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0181par0007	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0180par0008	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0181par0009	Mr. President, it is the duty of all lawmakers to protect the dignity of this House, its presence. In particular, we've had a request for a sentence regarding the relevant MP. At the point of using a clean language, the Civil Code has executive provisions, and there are criminal charges in return. Of course, we don't like to see the MP get punished, but I insist on being punished. And I insist that if our Parliamentary Prime Minister, including the Parliament Speaker, uses a traditional language that insults all MPs, I am the Speaker of Parliament, and I also offer it to the appreciation of the CHP Group's administration. I also say we insist on our punishment. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0180par0011	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0182par0012	Mr. President, this doesn't understand what I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0180par0013	That's enough. We will begin talks with the Law Bill on the establishment of the 3rd ranked Gelibolu Historical Area of the Çanakkale Wars and the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report. The commission is here. The government is here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 601 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this bill will be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Kars MP, Mr. Property Onetane who wants to speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Birtane. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0183par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised by the Legislators of the Çanakkale Wars on the establishment of the historical field presidency of Gallipoli. I salute you all. Before I start speaking about the law, I'd like to say a few words about the situation in Iraq, which has changed every day, even every hour. I was at Hewler's when the ISIS gangs attacked Mosul. The reality of the situation in Iraq was evident from the rhetoric and attitudes of the people. Children, these gangs will come and cut off our heads. They do not sleep. Women are anxious, as a whole, and the people look to the future as a whole. For years, there has been no voice in Syria and Rojava, while Kurdish people have been fighting and fighting against these gangs and being massacred. Four years ago, Kurds said that these gangs slaughtered people for their faith and ethnic identity without knowing any human measure, and that they were a threat to all Middle Eastern peoples and countries, but they were not considered in any way. As the latest entry of these gangs into Mosul (Musul) gives many people the right to speak, dozens of people comment on it each day. Unfortunately, the government has stressed that the flag must be lowered at its consulate and that the press-release organizations must remain silent, despite being detained by dozens of employees and citizens. We wonder if, as they say, the real goal is to protect the hostages there, or if it's to show that even though the relationship with ISIS has been revealed when the trucks are being sent to Syria, it's to remain silent. It is clear that those weapons did not go to the Turkmen as they claim. Suppose those weapons were sent to the Turks, this is an intervention in Syria, which in no way is acceptable. Mr. President, the current developments have shown that Turkey must immediately change its foreign policy, followed by AKP rule for years, especially Kurdish policy. By confronting Kurds, Turkey will never be able to democratise and achieve peace. Dear lawmakers, I would also like to share our views on the bill: Yes, as we've always said, Turkey is founded on a land where many civilizations are the motherland. However, national state-run identity, culture, beliefs, pluralism is a product of an understanding that rejects pluralism, and Turkey's process is full of massacres, exiles, migrations, assimilation, destruction, elimination and many more pressures and denial policies. To the people who fought side by side in Çanakkale, it was to exist or perish as Turkish Sunni. In Turkey, religions, languages, cultures have been ignored in the process of making a nation state. Here, historical monuments, monuments, tombs, monuments, walls, castles, churches, the most conclusive proof of civilization, history, have been destroyed. Turkey has either destroyed or looted or redesigned the historical remains of its civilisations based on its own nationalist understanding. Of course, denial and destruction have been initiated against the history of the peoples before, in these lands that have been stripped of its essence, from its true identity, from its reality, from its history, from its existence. Historically destroyed peoples have lived as refugees and refugees in this country. To survive, they lived to hide their language, their religion. Turkey has ignored the history of civilizations and has created an official history that has nothing to do with historical reality. This, of course, has been the most important reason not to bring Turkey into real democracy so far. In fact, Turkey destroyed its own history as it tried to wipe out languages, historical, belief. To date, generations have lived in ignorance of the true history of Turkey. A forced history, of course, has created an enemy of other peoples, languages, beliefs. Multicultural, multi-lingual, multi-religious land was transformed into a pool of blood by one religion, one nation, one language. Today, the people of Turkey still suffer the consequences. Mr. President, valued MPs, historical structures all over Turkey are now facing extinction. Turkey either spent a great deal of energy destroying these structures or Turkified them by changing them. This understanding of the historical structures, even the history of other civilizations, is based on Turkising everyone, and today it's all about leaving historical structures to their own destiny. Turkey must at least face its true history from now on. Because each of the historical structures represents a belief, a culture, a language, a people, and we have to accept that they have the right to live in this land, their language, their religion, their identity. We believe that this bill for the establishment of the Gallipoli Historical Field Presidency of the Çanakkale Wars, which will be taken from a holistic perspective of the area of the Çanakkale wars, which will operate as an open-air museum and run its operations as an open-air museum, should be adapted to ensure that all historical structures in Turkey are preserved in accordance with the historical reality. The area in the Kumkale region, where the Çanakkale wars took place, and the Gallipoli Peninsula, UNESCO, was also taken to the Interim List of World Heritage. We are not in favor of what reality these wars are based on, but on what real history is, what people are going through in these wars, we are in favor of the actions being carried out in a way that is consistent with their true history. How other peoples were destroyed, not by an enticing, enhancing understanding of war, but by the idea that Turkey should bring about a reality that it has never done, has never done, has never achieved, has never been able to face reality, with its idea of bringing truth to society, with its understanding of community, with its intellectuals, with historians, without destroying nature, by staying far away from artificiality. As this bill was drafted, the views of NGOs, historians, environmentalists, and interested scientists were not received. We think the AKP's government has ended the change, as it has always done. It is also another matter of what conditions the workers will be employed in this area, and we expect the government to clarify that. In the same way, we don't know how to associate the locals with the citizens who live there. The arrangement of this area must be made clear to the public how it will affect it, how the problems of the people who will not consent will be known, and whether the benefits of Law 4533 and local people will be included. As a result of an application by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism to UNESCO, this project will be carried out by the World Heritage Centre as a result of its assessment, not as a project to be avoided, but as a result of the nature of the field of history. Çanakkale is also part of the Gallipoli Peninsula, where sea and land battles are fought. Ships, cannons, trenches, castles, horoscopes and relics of war, graves of those who lost their lives in the war, graves and monuments of Australia, New Zealand, British and French soldiers. The arrangement of this field should not represent a sense of peace, plurality, tolerance, equality, that all peoples are of equal value, that every people deserves respect for their language, their symbols, their identity. Turkey, Turkey alone and its achievements should be carefully avoided by the approach that only costs Turkish and Turkish. As I just said, Turkey must make peace with nature, as with history, because nature and history are intertwined. As remains of the Çanakkale wars are preserved, Kars Ani Kören Diner, Kars historical Russian houses, Diyarbakır walls, and the city of historic Efes must be protected with the same care. For example, there are hundreds of historical structures in Kars, my own constituency. On this occasion, I would like to say that these structures in Kars are about to be destroyed. The city, which is found among the most backward cities in socioeconomic terms, also has major historical heritage, such as the world-famous ancient city of Ani and Kars Castle. The ancient remnants of history, dating back to ancient times, are an uninterrupted settlement from the Yontima Stone Age. There are many historical houses, mansions, mosques and Paleolithic Periods in the city. There are also numerous artifacts and mines from the Urardus, Seljucians, Roman and Byzantine period. The Sudden Ancient City is one of the centers visited by foreign tourists with curiosity and interest. In addition, the Museum of Modern Kars is one of the most important museums in the history of archaeological, ethnographic and stone. This rich historical heritage is about to be destroyed due to disinterest and lack of care. Most historical and cultural beings have been destroyed and the province's tourism facilities have not been assessed in any way. There are few studies in Kars to live and promote historical heritage and cultural values. There are no significant investments in culture and tourism in the province. They don't promote historical artifacts, they can't find an officer to guide tourists who come with them. Because the Sudden Ancient City was unguarded, gold was searched around the castle and inside it, huge holes were opened inside. The calls were made to the church walls, carved out of the walls, all of the walls were drawn with chalk or stones. The Sudden Ancient City covers a vast area, and a day's time must be set aside for a full tour. However, the absence of a rest facility around the ancient city in any way leads to serious problems and the location loses its appeal. Kars is in the same situation as Kars Castle, which is located in the centre. While I'm calling for restoration and protection for all historical structures, I also need to make a call for the Sudden Ancient City, plates and Kars Castle. Mr. President, I would also like to point out that while Turkey is praising its own history with a nationalist approach, it must refrain from burying Hasankeyf (Akakari) in the water, from the policies of the military use of the Fort (Kela Milan) and from eradicating the history of the districts of Derim, Zilan, and so on. If he's going to make an effort to protect historical structures, he has to stop killing nature. The pluralist of the 21st century must also reconcile with nature on the basis of its democratic, environmental and peaceful understanding. He must stop destroying rivers, streams, forests, and historical sites with HESbooks, dams, concretes. Lake Bafa, which is about to be destroyed by pollution, we see Ankara Tea, Kars Tea, drying lakes as other injustices that we live in and pass on to the future, and we stress that urgent measures must be taken. Of course, we've listed up here what needs to be done regarding this bill. Regarding these, we end our thoughts here and pay all of our respects, thinking that Law 4533 was actually a legal proposal for the amendment.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0184par0041	Thank you, Mr. Birtane. Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0185par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, yes, the Turks have come to Anatolia for the second time since 1056. They were facing only the Byzantine Empire, the Eastern Roman Empire, and in turn they found it, fought against it, and brought Asia Minor into their territory, and made it a Turkish homeland. The Turks have never engaged in any assimilation work against other nations in their geography. If they had already entered, it would have been impossible for any other race to live on Anatolian soil for a thousand years. Even the French made Algeria French in Algeria for a hundred and thirty years, changing their language. The Ottoman state, which remained in the Balkans for 500 years, changed neither religion nor language in any Balkan country. In fact, for the first time in the events in Anatolia, the Byzantines have eliminated the Armenians. When you go to the Museum of Anatolian Civilizations, you see Frigs, Lidians, Assyrians, Hitites, and dozens of other such states and civilizations. These are often with the state, which has been wiped out by Byzantine, civilizations. After the establishment of the Ottoman State, he followed a policy in Anatolia that respected everyone, respected all religions, respected their foundations. As a matter of fact, the Crusaders carried out the biggest invasion of Anatolia and destroyed many Byzantine artifacts in Anatolia. It is a fact that the Latins who invaded Istanbul in 1204 looted Istanbul and destroyed all the artifacts belonging to the Orthodox church in Istanbul. They are the Latins who destroyed the statue of Justinyanus. Usually, almost all of the Byzantine sculptures with their eyes carved out are pre-Turkish events. Because it was created in relation to Christianity, Christianity after paganism destroyed it. If the Turks hadn't been in Anatolia, I suppose you'd have seen that no trace of the Anatolian civilizations stayed in Turkey, Anatolia. Even today, there are still so many architectural structures in Asia Minor that no one can account for them. In the emergence of the Christian world, you all know that because paganism, which existed before Christianity, oppressed Christianity, Christians built places of worship in caves and hidden places. In fact, underground cities were established at this time. Therefore, I believe it's the highest form of ignorance to the Turks that I've ever seen. Dear MPs, of course we're talking about Çanakkale. For us, Çanakkale is extremely important in Turkish history. Because the war here is also the war of imperialism. It is a sign that people from thousands of miles away will punish the Turks for destroying East Rome and again capture Istanbul. Thus, with such a law, it is seen that a complete work to preserve the historical fabric of the Gallipoli Peninsula is being done by us as well. When the 18th of March arrives, the honorable lawmakers fill our hearts with different feelings. A little bitter, a little proud, a little sad, but full of pride. Because there is an unforgettable note in history that mankind will look back on until the end of time and take a look at it and learn a lesson. In Çanakkale, we have a past that will be proud of what history has done, and will not blush at what it has done, and will look upon it as one of the rare nations on earth. Many documents that have been removed from the dusty shelves of history and laid out before mankind today speak of unimaginable events in Çanakkale. Today, many books and articles are being written about them, trying to shed light on those days. I sincerely applaud all those who have genuine zeal for this matter, and I want to express my gratitude to them. And I don't think there's much to say about whether or not we're doing the right thing for the rest of the job. The Canakkale Wars are one of the greatest events in the world on its own. The absence, the faith, the disbelief, the humility, and the vanity have brought ruin to his pride. When approached like this, there are many lessons that can be learned from Çanakkale, some of which may be: First of all, Çanakkale was seen and accepted by all the worlds that can't be crossed by war. The superpowers of that period proved to be edible to the entire world, even the armies of the British and French armies, known as the Undefeated Armada. In almost every period of history, Britain has suffered a great loss of prestige, with the greatest loss of defeat and soldiers in its history, causing problems, headaches, headaches, boils. The First World War grew longer when Çanakkale couldn't get through. The Tsarial Russia, who joined the war on the side of the Allied states, hoping to get a share of its fallen Ottoman cake, was unable to overcome its internal turmoil and the Bolshevik Revolution, as it did not have the help of the alliance forces to reach it through Çanakkale. Survivors of their brother's life-and-death struggle at the last outpost east of the Turkish army celebrated the victory of Islam. The philosophers of history can learn more results and lessons than that. Congressmans, we, the descendants of the people who made Çanakkale impossible, who were martyrs in the Battle of Çanakkale, should know the historical, political, military and diplomatic aspects of this war and appreciate the impact that has reached our time. As a result of the wars on the Çanakkale front, each of the three houses in Anatolia were martyred from one, and one of the three women became widows. Most of the university students who were killed in Ariburnu and Conkbayir are students from İstanbul University Medical School of Medicine -- formerly known as Darulfunun Mekteb-i. The faculty was not able to graduate in 1915 because the students were in military service. The sea action of the Çanakkale front is no ordinary military action or combat action, no doubt. As of its location and historical significance, the Istanbul Black Sea gate, the Çanakkale de Aegean Sea gate, is always considered together in terms of the strategic importance and value they carry in the past and the value they carry in modern times. In both the classical and narrow frameworks, not only the Mediterranean, the Black Sea, or the bridges connecting Europe to Asia, but also today the effects of the world's geopolitical position, connecting the world's great seas and large continents with the other important waterways of the Mediterranean and the Suez Canal. For this reason, the Turkish Straits have always been the focus of leading international relations. Indeed, military movements have been constantly in the Bosphorus region, with economic, commercial and political relations that have begun between the European-Asian countries since ancient history. In other words, the Bosphoruses have been staged in many of the other parts of the world. Under the light of the short explanations of the strategic situation and geopolitical position of the throats in the course of history, the assessments of the results of the Battles of Çanakkale will undoubtedly be of greater importance and meaning. For such an assessment to be more realistic and healthier, it would also require a brief review of the national ambitions of major states over the Turkish Straits. Germany's policy towards the east, Russia's aims to reach warm seas, dominates the world that dominates the seas. Based on the theory, Russia's policy, especially since the 19th century, has always been tied up in the Turkish straits. Napoleon is the key to the undisputed importance of the throats, which will rule the world that dominates Istanbul. If Russia gains control of the Chanakkale Strait, Tulon, Naples, and Corfu will have come to the gates. Russia's view is that in a report by Chief of Staff Kropatki, in the 20th century, Russia must prepare the Ottoman State to release its throat to Russia and make a deal with Germany. These brief attempts by the great states on the throats have led them to a series of secret disputes among themselves. As a matter of fact, in a report approved by the Tsar, Russian Foreign Minister Sazanof said that the adoption of the throats into the hands of a powerful state is that the economic life of all South Russia will be dominated by that state. On the other hand, in November 1911, Britain and France, who were informed of Russia's note to the Ottoman government about its demands on the straits, refused Russian requests. In addition, Russia's repeated demands and pressures of many other dates such as these and such have been a major factor in the Ottoman Empire's shift to the ranks of central states in the First World War. These secret conflicts of interest on the throats are the main factor in the opening of the Çanakkale Front, which has led the British and French to take Istanbul, and to take over the Black Sea Strait before the Russians. If it's a question of weapons and supplies for the Russians, it's only the apparent cause of the war. Thus, it would be correct to point out that when the great states have their historical ambitions on the Turkish Straits, the British have played an active role in opening this front in the first degree. As a matter of fact, British Secretary of the Navy Churchill has made a great deal of effort and influence in opening the front. Indeed, he had become the chief architect of the opening of this front, not taking the Turkish military power seriously, saw it as a simple and limited act of punishment. He thought the Turks would stop resisting with the appearance of their most powerful and modern-day armoured armor at the throat. No doubt that was a big mistake. The British made a huge miscalculation by simply ignoring the Turkish defence and military in Çanakkale, and ignoring its higher spiritual power, and eventually, they got the relentless answer they had never expected on the sea, and then on the land. So they retreated, leaving the victory to the Turkish cannons and mines on the land to the Turkish bayonet. The well-telling of the victory of Çanakkale is a guarantee of our future, as we owe it to our ancestors and martyrs. As a matter of fact, the important leaders of the era of victory said: "For example, Churchill, the Turks, the forces against Çanakkale, the most advanced techniques of their age, are like a fortress." he says. General Tawshend, there are no soldiers in Europe -- I underline this expression -- who can be compared to the Turks. It can be acknowledged that the Germans are very good at defending themselves, but even in the trenches, they are no match for the Turks. For example, I'd like to mention Gallipoli. If it weren't for the Turks, the continents that had suffered great losses with our ship's fires would have been replaced immediately. But the Turks stayed in their positions all the time, he says. As for Sir Kombet, we have perfected everything in Chanakkale, but we did not succeed. Because the Turks were fighting the fury, courage, and heroism of the lions who had entered their homes. I've never seen a nation like that, he says. Congressmans, when we tell our children about Çanakkale, we have to tell them that Çanakkale is not a normal war. Indeed, Çanakkale was an extraordinary battle where breasts were shielded against the enemy instead of the plate, where bullets collided with each other in the air. Çanakkale was also the battle of those who remembered that there were enough people to take their wounded enemy off the battlefield and deliver him to the enemy trenches. The great fleet of England, with the world's greatest naval power, has fallen in the Battle of the Bosphorus, and the defenders of Çanakkale of tomorrow must never take it out of their memory. Here, we can say that the Turkish soldier has a historical value in comparison to the resistance, determination and spirit of other nations, against the military, which is equipped with the world's most powerful armor and the most modern weapons, tools, and plenty of ammunition. So that these giant armadas were fighting a bunch of old-fashioned cannons that were even suspected of firing, while the Turkish artillery on land could only shoot 1,900 bullets at it, they could use 4,000 bullets on one of our own batteries. However, four Turkish cannons were damaged on land by this hail of bullets, and 44 cannons were seen to be buried in the Bosphorus waters on enemy ships alone. In fact, the truth was that modern weapons were fighting faith and faith. Their dream was to expel the people who made Kostantiopolis Istanbul and crush the enemy, to resurrect Byzantines. Why else would they have come tens of thousands of miles into our land? Mehmet Akif as the deceased said: ▪ The Old World, the New World, the whole acronym It boils like sand, apocalypse, truth apocalypse. You're looking at seven climates of jihad, You're looking at it with Australia: Canada! The faces are different, the languages, the skins are colorful. There's a simple incident: violence equals violence. Some Hindus, some cannibals, some trouble... You know, that awful invasion in Tauna... Congressmans, with this new law, I hope that in the name of goodwill, gesture or international friendship and brotherhood, in Çanakkale, Australians, New Zealanders will not be given control of their landings. You don't go to some savings that aren't supposed to be in national parking places. For years in Çanakkale, the entity states have made such a request. To this day, wishes, such as the name of Çanakkale's peace park, have been rejected, and the saints of our martyrs who made Çanakkale impenetrable in Çanakkale have been preserved. No matter who accepts such a request, no doubt they will pass through history with the plague and curse of martyrs. For they fell to the ground for the sake of a crescent, for this land. They have broken the law of the last of the righteous, and have admired Saladdin Ayyubi, and the sword lion. They were the ones who did not need help. Because they are. They found their place under the flag of the prophet. For the Holy Land, our sainted martyrs, who willingly gave their lives to change the fate of a nation, our country, our sovereignty, their unwavering faith, their unwavering courage, wrote a unique epic story in the world. Those who describe these epicists as unknowable persons who want to invade our country as those who want to invade our country will have to pay our martyrs for their peace in the end. Such people should be well known by our society. On this occasion, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic, and the martyrs of Çanakkale, and all the saints we have given to this day, remember once again with respect and gratitude, and ask for mercy from Almighty God. And I wish for good luck and good fortune to be passed. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0186par0081	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. İstanbul MP Haluk Eyidoğan on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0187par0085	Mr. President, I would like to submit my views on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the bill for the establishment of the Gelibolu Historical Field President of the Çanakkale Wars. As we have noted earlier in other legislations, this bill has often been presented to the Commission from the bench, with similar understanding. Even though there are five commission names, the main commission has tried to get the job done. The subcommittee was discussed in the subcommittee after a long effort to go to the subcommittee meeting, but was not discussed in the subcommittee commissions. However, there is also a declaration on the page of the commission that these 5 commissions did not report. An uninterviewed bill can't be submitted anyway. So there's a statement here, as if you didn't give the report on purpose; it's -- I think -- it's got your attention. It's not possible to file a report on the bill that didn't go to the Tali Commission -- as you can see -- but as members of the Tali Commission, we also participated in these basic commissions and reported our views. The Çanakkale Gallipoli Peninsula is a land of imperial states that has begun the occupation process to transform our nation into a new colonial nation and to divide and destroy our homeland. It's a land watered by the blood of our martyrs. In order for this country to be fully independent and free, for peace, those who are martyrs in Çanakkale Gallipoli have memories and stories in every piece of land. The Kumkale Distracting, the Battles of Seddülbahir, Alççütepe Kirte, the Battles of Ariburnu, the Anfartas, the Bay of Suvla, are a place of honor in the Battles of Çanakkale Kara and the Sea. Today, monuments, martyrdoms, and tombs in the Gallipoli Peninsula remind of the heavy, painful experiences that must be passed on to the new generation. Today, we live in the Middle East with examples of pain, what the colonists and their collaborators did and did to the brother, who led the religion to order. What happened there shows us how valuable peace, freedom, and independence are, that we should embrace these values. The Gallipoli Peninsula historical national park is a land that needs to be seen and traveled in that sense. The government puts our country face to face with what we're used to seeing a new one every day and are forced to accept. In sensitive issues that make up the milestones of our national and spiritual values, they constantly make their own ideological interpretations and diversions that confuse professional propaganda ways and practices. The Çanakkale Wars we're meeting today are also wanted to create a new law on the establishment of Gallipoli Historical Field President. It is intended to create a new verb state with a law text written in 2015, which leaves very serious questions in between, anxious to be brought up to the 100th year events of the Battles of Çanakkale and Gallipoli, which will be celebrated in 2015. I draw your attention to that in particular. We'll pass on our views in this frame. With this bill that the government is trying to implement, it wants to take steps in an undefined structure, especially the head of the institution, and even its definition and professional formation. In addition, our review of the text of this bill suggests that we are not subject to the opinion and knowledge of relevant NGOs. We believe that the law should be drafted in accordance with a more qualified, scientific and social consensus culture. Here are the findings that we want carefully evaluated by the Commission... Mr. President, I think there's a little hum going on.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0188par0093	Mr. Eyeborn, one moment... Mr. Special, I'm asking our friends, especially you, to be quiet. Mr. Eyiborn warned me, so I'll warn you, we'll stop humming. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0189par0096	The reasons why Law 4533 has been removed from force and why it is needed, the Law 4533 has no explanation in the general reason of the bill, how these problems remain inadequate in solving them, how they will be resolved, and what additional objectives are not foreseen in Law 4533. The general reason for the bill has been tried to avoid the embezzlement. Peaceful statements referring to the universality of Law 4533 have been transformed into a monologue based on locality. The general reason for the Law on Gallipoli National Park No. 4533, which has been lifted by this law, is the same as the general reason for its Law on Gallipoli National Park: the 1915 Çanakkale sea and land battles, which constitute an important turning point in the history, cultural and natural nature of the Turkish Wars of Çanakkale, has to be brought to the national and international park with a new interpretation of Turkey's love, courage, determination, and sacrifice of the Turkish Nation. The goal of Gallipoli Law 4533 has been defined as:::: The Gallipoli Peninsula of Çanakkale sea and land battles in 1915 is to be introduced to the world nations to serve international peace with its historical, cultural values and forest and vegetation, to protect, to develop, and to promote basic and governance, and to serve international peace as a beautiful example of nature. Some significant differences are noted in the explanations of Law 4533, as well as in the purpose and scope of the new bill. The first difference: the Turkish national defense, which is part of Law 4533's purposes, has been removed. Why? Is there something wrong with the Turkish expression? I'm not saying this here to make a eunuch, I'm giving it to your attention. Why this detail, what's the intention? You have to explain this. With such changes, unfortunately, more changes are being opened. In these difficult days when our flags have been lowered, we are concerned about the progress in these difficult days when the TC letters have been removed from the public institution signs. The government must and must say something to satisfy our concerns. In this bill, which we want to believe is well-intentioned, we are again faced with some initiatives that will lead us to second thoughts and concerns. The second difference is that the goal of introducing the Gallipoli Historical Peninsula to the nations of the world to serve international peace is to be removed from the text of matter. On the basis of our own history's spirituality, we don't approve of a narrow-mindedness, such as the adoption of the purpose to be introduced to ourselves by the masses. Instead of the word "recognising" in its text, we believe that the introduction to the nations of the world must be added in order to serve international peace. The purpose of this law must be rewritten. We've rewritten that goal for you. Look, our proposal for the purpose is this, I read in quotes: the goal is to introduce to the world nations, transfer them to future generations, and reorganise their mandate with historical territory, except for the historical and land wars of the Gallipoli national historical site, which took place during the Turkish defence, and other than those of the Anatolian and Çanakkale, where the Battles of Çanakkale were held in the history of the Anatolian Peninsula. In this way, it is necessary to ensure the continuation of activities in a specific area, border and area of the area of the historical field presidency, Gallipoli National of the Çanakkale Wars. An important problem that this bill presents is the expression of the historical area, which has never been officially defined anywhere until now and has been attributed to Gallipoli. There are many places to be described as historical spaces. History is pouring out of our country. But the definition of historical space here needs to be done more carefully. Without a description, the term "national park" in the Historical National Park Law of Gallipoli Peninsula 4533 is replaced by the term "historical area." If there's going to be a change, then we need to make a new definition. In our relevant laws and regulations, we have definitions of the local park. So, based on these, let's make a new definition of the law. Let's define Gallipoli in a way that doesn't lose its meaning in a way that is similar to the definition of Gallipoli National Park. Why do you remove the word "Millei"? Did you see the harm of the word ▪ Millei? I just explained a similar situation. You are also removing the statement of Turkish defence. Is it to do something better for Gallipoli or to take the opportunity and sail to other waters? Will you also remove the word "National Education Ministry" as you removed the name "TC" from some institutions? Now, instead of this historical domain definition, we propose a definition of the area at the same coordinates under the title of the national historical field. We say: "The Chanakkale wars and the Gallipoli national historical site, dedicated to the presidency by this law, are redefined by the national and international national and cultural resources of the national and international events mentioned on the map and on the list of coordinates, and we are also redefined by the historical and cultural resources. According to this, the definition will be: ▪ Protecting, developing, managing, introducing, protection bases and conditions for use in the region, resolving, refurbishing, open space system, pedestrian movement, and infrastructure facilities based on design structures of the region's social and economic structures, goals, strategies and plans on all kinds of scales that have been adopted by the Ministry, as well as adding the word "almetary plans" to include the word "al" in this area. However, what we tried to say was that by stressing their plans for protection, we were able to say that there are 5,000 (5,000) and a thousand (1,000), 1/25 (25) plans. If the government assures us that we will remain at 5,000, 1,000, 25,000, 100,000, to the extent that I don't know - we will not interfere in environmental order plans. We can remove the emphasis on the protection plan if it doesn't? Otherwise, these plans would be considered as zoning plans -- we would see their examples every day in Turkey -- and in the future, they would be breached by unstoppable development and thus, we would be able to lose some of their historical national areas, some of their attributes, some of their attributes. I'm warning you from here. With this bill, we also see that a constitutional violation such as the Constitution has been intended to change many of the provisions contrary to our Constitution or to adopt them in a new practice, ignoring them. These are the following laws: Article 98 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, Council of Ministers, Council of Ministers of 26 May 1973, Law of the National Parks, Law of Gallipolis Peninsula, Law of the National National Parks, Law of Public Relations, Law of the Law No. 4734, Law of the Forest Law, Law of the Coastal Law, Law of the Forest Directorate, Law of the Government of the Law, Law of the Law of the Law, and Law of the Law of 2863. In addition, there are regulations that violate the principle of public interest, which are incompatible with the purpose of providing public funds and public services, while it is being granted privileges that are not available at any public establishment. Those regulations include the establishment of a public organization called the Gelibolu Peninsula, founded with Law 4533, based in Çanakkale, based in the Ministry of Culture and Tourism instead of the Historical National Park Directorate of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. The other is the Gelipoli Peninsula of Gallipoli, part of the Law on National Parks 2873, out of its historical national park status, and as part of the Gelipoli historical site of the Çanakkale Wars created by this bill. I would like to stress this in the budget of the Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs, as well as in the subcommittee, the Gelibolu Peninsula's Historical National Park special account, where the Minister of Culture and Tourism has entered into effect with the approval of the Minister of Culture and Tourism, and is under the President's jurisdiction of the Çanakkale Wars of Gallipoli History, outside of budget control -- especially under the mandate of the government -- and therefore the development of a new budget without the authority of the TBM. The presidency can be temporarily employed without having to seek the permission of the relevant institution, except for employees working with public institutions and organisations, the other staff he needs, officers and contracted personnel. The appointment of the president of the Gallipoli Historical Field of Çanakkale with a joint decree from those who worked in public or private sectors for at least five years, that he could meet the needs for the main activities of the presidency without subject to the Public Relations Act 4734, that the budget should be prepared, implemented and controlled by the Public Financial Management and Control Law 5018, and that he would not be subject to the Law on State Relations No.2886, and the use of the coasts. Another outstanding point in this bill is that the state exists, but the nation is forgotten; it is not often considered the economic and social status of the rightful owners of the non-transmitters in the village settlements or in the movers. For years, the people of Gazi villages who live here have been able to farm and harvest their land, plant or obelisk fields. According to the criteria set by this law, anyone who has completed four years of higher education or worked in the private sector or in the public sector for five years before will be able to be appointed as President of the Historical Area with a public legal personality. According to us, those who have served for at least five years at the disposal of this arrangement, city and district planning, landscape architecture, history, geography or the equivalent of these, from higher education institutions abroad, and from those who have served at least five years under the command of the public institution and organisations, must be appointed by the General Staff, Military History and Strategic Ethict and Military Museum Command, with at least five years of military history, with sufficient professional knowledge and experience, with at least five years in the public or in the private sector. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0190par0107	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. In the name of the individuals, Mr. Ali Sarıbaş of Çanakkale. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0191par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you to speak in such an important law that concerns all parts of Turkey and, of course, concerns the entire world outside of Turkey. Dear MPs, as you all know, Gallipoli is a place in the command of the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, where the battle of Çanakkale, which baffles the imperialist forces, has witnessed very important historical events in which many of our anonymous heroes lie. Gallipoli was protected by special law as a national park for the first time by law issued in 2000. This law aims to introduce the history and cultural values of the Gallipoli Peninsula of the National Park to the world for the defence of the Turkish country and for its natural, beautiful example of international peace, with the preservation, development and management of forest and vegetation. Now, what are you guys doing tonight? You're trying to take the words of peace and national values out of it, and you're trying to get them to take it to a presidential term where the war goes on a lot. My dear friends, at first glance, this bill appears to be a ranta-turned bill. Large conglomerates have already closed down thousands of acres of land in the region, including the Plains of Anafartas, Seddülbahir and its surroundings, before the bill arrived at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As you know, UNESCO has moved the Gallipoli Peninsula to the World Heritage Temporary List, and the meeting of the Parliament on June 25th will discuss its transfer to the noble list. Australia, New Zealand and Britain support this project. Is it possible that UNESCO put the Gallipoli National Park on the World Heritage List? Does the decision scare you? What's the rush? Is it the rush to get a rant, or are there other reasons under which we don't know? As parliament's main opposition party, as you have ignored our views, proposals and proposals, I know you have not received the opinion, proposals and opinions of NGOs regarding the bill. If you have any opinions, we'd like to know. You didn't need it when it was possible to prepare this bill in a more qualified and scientific way in terms of the culture of social reconciliation. Why? As you have not done any of these things, you are in violation of many laws concerning the bill, including the National Parks Act, the Gelibolu Peninsula Historical National Park Law, along with the Public Law on Relations, the Law on Forest Law, the Law on Coastal Law, the Law on Governmentisation, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and the Law on Maintaining Laws of Culture and Nature, and you are in violation of the 89 degrees and 161% of our Constitutional Law. With this bill, you are disinheriting the historical national park law of the Gallipoli Peninsula, which has been specially issued. As you know, Çanakkale is the city of peace. It is the common denominator of all of our citizens who live there that, above all, are the President of the World Peace Park. The allocations within the historical area are being abandoned to the presidency without charge, with the establishment of the presidency. The rights of the operators present are being revoked. Businessmen are being victimised, these activities of peasants who serve tourism in the region, live in lodgings and sell souvenirs are being blocked. And because there's no other means of livelihood, the villagers may be victimized -- because they can't get along with my work and because they're limited -- people here may be forced to emigrate. The development plans for the village settlements and the construction plans for the Eceabat municipality and the municipal areas of the asylum and the development plans for the mujavir areas cannot be done without a positive view of the presidency. The mayor's powers have already been victimised by the Ministry of Urbanism, the Prime Minister's office and the Turkish Cypriots, and are now being victimised by this law -- taking more powers. The president alone has the authority to prepare, renovate, and change plans on all kinds and scales in the historical area. Is there a legal institution, a government man, anywhere in the world, in any country, that has so much power and no control over all authority? ▪ The Çanakkale Special Administration, Çanakkale Municipality and the Çanakkale Chamber of Commerce and Industry budgets will be divided by at least 1 per cent, which is not true. And I think it's also appropriate that the budget should be corrected, in a technical sense, from the revenues on the budget that came before and in the current budget. Now, here, we're accelerating all the powers in the general budget to the sole ministry, so thank you, the bureaucracy is disappearing... and as a form of administration, it's the right understanding to transfer it to the Ministry of Culture, and I have nothing here. However, as I have just said here, it is important to consider that it should be equipped with a new way of understanding, with powers, and that people may seek their rights here -- including the dissolution of the law and search for rights. These budgets are under constant pressure. The president has been given the authority to look at it, and it is also disputed whether it is right to be given such broad authority. Of all the constructions and the use of structures except in the historic area, Eceabat and villages, it is called by the presidency. The law calls on the authority granted to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the control authority for licensed building control agencies in 81 districts. It seems enough that a person who's equipped with that much authority -- look, it's very important -- a person we've authorized so much -- has only four years of higher education and five years of public and private enterprise. However, once we look at it, the person in charge here, equipped with this much authority, this much authority, should be equipped as well. I mean, as an architect can be an engineer, he's also qualified to graduate. You have to have at least one line, a line of experience. Five years, ten years of experience should be put in place. Like landscape architecture, history, it would be wise to have a friend from abroad who graduated from abroad and had experience in matters related to this. It's not very nice to have a law proposal like this, where even a physicist can be assigned here. The top body of the presidency, the co-ordination board, has no duty but to meet twice a year to discuss plans and programmes for the activities of the presidency, to present proposals and opinions. I wonder if they'll gather around twice, and the authorities here will be able to keep an eye on their peace. The presidential accountability is also created as much trouble as possible. Because when we look at 5018 and other laws, we see that there's going to be a lot of trouble here. As 2015 approaches, the 2015 Agency has not yet been established in Çanakkale. Look, the hundredth year is coming, and even though there's a demand for 100,000 people for this celebration, you can't make more quotas than 10,500 people, and our guests here have an unprepared understanding. I don't believe we'll be able to raise it from here in a time like this, like, eight months. You have taken this, you have equipped the powers, you have done everything, but there is no way to prepare the Gallipoli Peninsula in Çanakkale with that understanding to 2015. Therefore, while wishing that this law be good in a national case that concerns everyone in Turkey, I would also like to offer these considerations. I offer you respect and love.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0192par0129	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. On behalf of his subjects, Mr. Ismet Uçma.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0193par0132	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the Constitutional Bill for the establishment of the Gelipoli Historical Field President of the Çanakkale Wars, ranking 601. I hereby salute your delegation, and give you all my love. Dear friends, today we are discussing an historic event that brings together the unity, unity, unity of a nation like Çanakkale, and all nations. We're talking about a nation defending its homeland fighting against all the superpowers of the world. Just as Noah the Lord said, "I have been defeated," we are talking about a day when the people and the people that they thought were finished and the people who were resurrected from their ashes at the last moment, and we plan to make Çanakkale a universal peace base together, and hopefully we will continue our work in this way. Dear friends, historical sites, historical artifacts are on the property of a society. With that dignity, it's up to all of us to take care of our historical sites, our historical artifacts, pass them on to future generations in good health. Of course, Çanakkale is a period of war. If it hadn't been for Çanakkale, we wouldn't have had a republic, and it wouldn't have been built. Contrary to what is thought, Çanakkale is an Ottoman war. The majority of society thinks it's a republican war. In fact, if it hadn't been for Çanakkale in 1919, it wouldn't have been able to go up to Samsun. Wait, traveller, you came and stepped on without knowing, This land is where an era sinks. Get down and listen, this quiet pile, A country is where the heart beats! At the end of this lonely, shadowless road, For the sake of inheritance, for the sake of virtue, It's where Mehmed lies who gives life! This bump, when it pulls out the big shake, As the last piece of country passed by, The flood where Mehmed drowned the enemy, It's where he adds holy blood! Think of the blood, the bones, the flesh, This bump he's made, it's relentless, it's tough, At the end of a war, the whole nation said, It's where he enjoys his freedom... we're talking about what he calls Çanakkale. As the 100th year of the victory of Çanakkale came near, from every village, town and city of this great land where a vision of civilization stood up to the rule of the AK PARTI, I'm afraid, has not taken a serious step. In fact, the fact that there was no adequate and insurmountable arrangement requires some cash in our nation's name. I'd like to remind you that after the Battles of Çanakkale, if they didn't join our martyrs and veterans in the Battle of Salvation, they didn't count as Ottoman soldiers, and therefore the salary was not tied, nor was their health involved. In the photographs of each of us proud and described as a monument to a hammock, Seyit Corporal and our other veterans carrying 250-driving rounds in their backs were victims of this incomprehensible practice, while Seyit Corporal was trying to move on with his life, and he was depleted from carelessness and returned to the disaster. The Battle of Çanakkale has been described in several lines as a front of World War I in the history courses each of us has read, and it has not been explained what this war means to Turkey, the Middle East, Russia, the Turkish world and the Islamic world, and even the Western and italistic states. In fact, Çanakkale, the great resistance in Gallipoli was eclipsed by the Trojan horse of Homer's Battle of Troy. The time to do something for the Çanakkale combat zones has not really been fulfilled until the AK PARTI authorities. I consider this nation, this civilization, this lack of humanity, to be historically neglected and ignored. Another striking example is that the battle zone of Çanakkale remains a military zone until the 1970s, banning public visits and public visits. Are you aware, dear friends, of the fallen bones of the farmers who plowed their fields out of the military during those years under the feet of their oxen? Again, after the Battle of Çanakkale, we would like to remind the seven villages in the region that our immigrant brothers from the Balkans were placed and that until the '70s, their only livelihood was the sale of war ammunition scraps, and many ammunitions were melted and made kitchen materials. Those who were martyrs were left behind by their spouses, parents, orphans, and veterans until this period of power, nothing has been done, not as much as they deserve to have had their history and their violence taken care of. Even if we can't erase the shame, let's do a good job together. Let us raise a monument of glory from the pain and sadness of the children of orphaned children, who have left their fathers in the land, and their souls, and blood flowing in the land. Let's protect that land and maintain our history under the supervision of experts. Let us never forget, the Battle of Çanakkale is not a small battle in a tiny piece of land, in the Gallipoli Peninsula, but the greatest epic of this geography, as a witness to epics. Unpassable, unpassable Canakkale... Because war is a war in every inch of the land in the house of every member of the human race, where the Ottoman geography and the voice of the tyrant echoed. It is the battle of honor and honor of our women, sisters, and mothers, who ride in towns and villages without men. Everyone knows very well that the capital of the great state, which had been the watcher of Islam, would have ended a cycle with Istanbul's final fortress, but Çanakkale was the name of a nation's struggle to survive on the history page of a great civilization. Çanakkale is a defense of civilization. Even this law will remain an inadequacy to the words of Mehmet Akif. This is the stone. If I were to plant the Kaaba on its head, Even if I heard the revelation of my soul, Then I'd take the dome, and I'd say, If I take you to the bleeding tomb, with all its rewards, Even though I hit your open shrine with the purple clouds, the ceiling, If I stretch out the seven-lighted Surayah from there, You're covered in blood under this chandelier, If I brought you the moonlight at night when you lay down, If I wait all the way to your shrine, And when I have given you by day and by day a lamp, And the magribe when it envelops in the evening, I can't say I've done anything again. I wish this law to be a blessing, and I salute our High Council and your delegation with respect, love, and conversation.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit05spe0194par0173	Thank you, Mr. Flying. Now, I'm going to take a break, and I'm going to leave the QA back to the polls. I'm taking a break from the meeting at 8:30.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0194par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 105th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 601. The Commission and the Government are here. Now, we're going to do a QA on the whole bill. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0195par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as you know, this Gallipoli Peninsula historical national park was declared national park in 1973. On February 17, 2000, Turkey's first National Park Law on the Gallipoli Peninsula, a national park special, was adopted, and it is now under way for the long-term development plan for historical areas and to-dos of the historical national park. What do you think of this master's plan after this law comes in? Are you going to continue the procedure, completely disable it? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0196par0009	Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0197par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. What changes have you made in the master plan for Çanakkale Historical National Park in 2000-2001? In this scope, how many trillion-dollar tenders have been opened in the area during the AKP administrations, and how much of these tenders have been held? How many original martyrdoms have been performed so far as the Ministry of Culture, and how many martyrdoms are expected? Is there any symbolic martyrdom left? What's the reason that these were recently removed when the names and population places of the martyrs were already registered? Why are the martyrs' last names removed? Can you give us an explanation as to how much money has been spent on martyrdom over the years? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0198par0014	Mr. Acar... No Gurkut Acar Bey? Mr. Eyeborn, please.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0199par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Archaeological research must be carried out, such as the Gallipoli Peninsula, in thousands of years of history underground and aboveground areas. Relations with the General Directorate of Monuments and Museums must be strengthened in this regard. The Ministry of Culture must form geologists and geophysicists, which will allow scientific values to be identified, inspected, and studied. Likewise, the use of geophysical methods that allow archaeological beings to be detected before the excavation and will benefit greatly in many ways is not in the staff and budget plan for this. I would also like to point out that there is an urgent need for the control of the required standards of these studies, even the legal regulations that enable coercion, and the units that will perform them. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0200par0020	Mr. Canalioğlu, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0201par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as it is known, arrangements are being made to compensate the salary differences between the same position and the same fee principle as the equal work and the salaries of the officers working with the same title. However, with the arrangements, some of the municipal cultural and tourism directors appointed by a trilateral decree are paid over 3600 additional indicators, while others are paid over 3,000 additional indicators, including the regional cultural and tourism managers. And they do the same. Do you intend to make a change in the situation of these friends and level their status? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0202par0024	Mr. Yellowhead... No Mr. Yellowhead? Mr. Moroglu... Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0203par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, of course, there have been previously nearly 600 field guides, and they know this area very well, but when we look at this bill, there are no regulations for field guides. What will happen to these field guides after this law is enforced? Again, when we look at this area -- it's in the master plan -- there's absolute protection zones, limited containment zones, tampon zons. Is this historic plan going to pay attention to these zons? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0204par0032	Mr. Eyeborn.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0205par0033	Developmental geology and geophysical sciences cover a long process of completing different analysis techniques of archaeological objects that emerged after the excavation, starting with the archaeological recognition of the site before the excavation. Geologic and geophysical sciences have also become widespread in practice for archaeological studies, and respectability has been written down. Therefore, we demand that geological, geophysical and geotechnic research be conducted and organised in this direction, as stated in Article 4 of this law, in all underground research, including archeology, and in the study for disaster risk management plans. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0206par0036	Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0207par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as you've been very closely monitoring and as you know, the Tripoli Clumsy Winter Sports Center was declared the Silverstone Clumsy Winter Sports Tourism Center in 2005 as a result of a change made by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Seven mechanical facilities and 11 ski courses were announced in this announced tourist centre. The road and infrastructure between the Virgin Mary and the Virgin Mary was planned to be completed in 2010. But no progress has been made at the point of development. At what stage is Project Clumsy Winter Sports Tourism Center? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0208par0040	Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0209par0041	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, how much for the area of martyrdom from Çanakkale Gallipoli to Anzaks? Is there a new field demand for these? If there's a space demand, what's your ministry's opinion on it? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0210par0044	Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0211par0045	Mr. Minister, these historical artifacts are ignored, lost and not noticed by building many porch buildings around mosques, tribes, libraries. Do you intend to make a change in the Law of municipalities, an sanction, in order to regulate its surroundings at the point of respect for that historical tissue? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0210par0047	Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0212par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there are memorials of the martyrs on July 17th at the Çaltltepe Martyrship in the District of Mazka, Tripoli, but 10km of roads to the memorial service are broken and transportation to martyrdom is under difficult circumstances. Do you have a study, such as the recovery of the corrupt path of the Forktepe Martyrship and the taking of the tourist routes? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0213par0051	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0214par0052	Mr. President, thank you. And thank you to the esteemed MPs. Now, the essence of the work we're doing here... in this region, where the historical quality is unique to all of us... there are activities of our Ministry of the Ministry of State, there are activities of the State of Defense, there are jurisdictions, there are activities of the Ministry of the Forest. The issue here is a matter of one-handed management. Now, there's been a lot of talk here in the Commission, and we've talked to our friends in detail. All the gains he's got being a national park here, all the guards are going on. The basic approach here is that if the Ministry of Forestry or the Ministry of National Defense or any other ministry has any authority here, these powers should be conducted by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism as a matufus for the sole purpose of running this area. But the work we're going to do here is basically split in half. First, the resurrection of this historical site to its historical identity, in accordance with the legacy left by our martyrs there. Second, our nation has created an organization from this great war that sends a message of peace to the world, signing a peace project with the descendants of the enemy forces of that day who came to invade our country today. The events that have been happening so far now are increasing and growing, and the countries that are on our side each year and who are on our side and who are on the other side of the world today correspond to about 39 countries. The heads of state and government of these 39 countries are called to hold memorials every year. So here, the plans will now be made by one hand. The question asked is, of course, that the plans for the national park will continue, and the parties that are conflicting with this arrangement will be revised. But there's one thing: the total investment made by our Ministry of Çanakkale in 2004-2013 is about $21,456,000, the investment total that our ministry continues to add up to about 91,846 thousand dollars, and of course, we thank our Ministry of Forestry and Water because it's shown a lot of precision here, our ministers and our Ministry. In total, these investments amounted to 121 million,890 thousand liras. After that, all the work that the Ministry of National Defense is planning to do, all the work that the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs is planning to do, all the work that the Department of Agriculture is planning to do, will be run by this president in one hand. In fact, the essential part of the arrangement that we bring in is to save this place from multiplicity, to revive it in accordance with its historical identity. Our approach to the area's field guides that have worked in national parks so far is that we have enough friends in them as far as we can see, but we also have friends who are not qualified. We don't have a categorically similar approach that will be employed or categorically not to take advantage of any of this from now on. Those who pass the test within the framework of meeting a certain standard will be evaluated in this region, and those who cannot pass this examination will not be evaluated because it is important that historical information is correct, that their education is sufficient, that their description is consistent with historical reality. Therefore, they will be subject to a test of competence in order for those who come there to be properly informed, of course, but there is no such thing as that they will all continue to do the same, or that they will not all benefit from any of it. It's 1/25 of the Clumsy Winter Tourism Center. His plans for 000, 1/5,000, 1/1,000 scale were approved in 2010. There's been a legal arrangement in the area of mera. The registration process for the treasure is under way. Then the ad will be placed and the allocation will be performed. The historical site includes 35 Turkish monuments, 45 Turkish martyrdoms, 35 foreign burial sites. There are 11 Turkish martyrdoms outside the historical site. We will be taking the views of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the ministry responsible for martyrdom here, and we will do the necessary work on the development and resurrection of these martyrdoms in accordance with the lack of martyrdom and the spiritual memory of our martyrs. Other than that, our friends have some questions, technical questions. I don't have those numbers right now. I'll report those numbers to them in writing -- our friends have taken notes. It was also expressed here in various conversations. Whether or not this place has been opened in any way, the message of peace to the world has been destroyed. I'd like to present to the esteemed lawmakers that this is a place where we're all concerned with common value and common sensibilities. The bill we've brought in has been placed in the absolute protection of this place as far as we've ever seen. And this bill, and the fact that this bill has been granted absolute protection in no way in terms of the laws referred to by its historical identity. Of course, claims have been made that this place has been damaged as a message of peace. These allegations, to tell you the truth, are not in the bill and the work we plan to do. This, of course, will send a message of peace to the world, to the gathering of 39 states and heads of government every year, but let's not forget that our nation has been attacked internationally on the terms of that day. As a result of this attack, the national spirit has been dominated, this place has been defended, and this great nation has not turned it into a grudge case after the defeat of the forces that came to invade it. He's put together an alliance from here to the world to send a message of peace. Today he celebrates with the descendants of his enemies whom he fought yesterday. Thus, the opposite of the identity of giving a message of peace will be immediately promoted by the show. There is no right way to describe it. Whatever historical event is here will be properly explained to the children of this country. Today, here lies the children and grandfathers of many countries that are the shareholders of our civilization basin. We are also giving a memorial to the people who are the descendants of the enemies of that day. From here, of course, we'll send a message of peace to the world. But in terms of his historical identity, we're going to tell the world that this is the message of peace from this great nation after the invasion that our country once faced and the great invasive attack. And something else was being brought up here, where this Co-ordination Board meets twice a year. It's not limited to two, it's collected as much as it wants, but it'll be collected at least twice. There was talk of a right to peace. I'd also like to present to the MPs that he doesn't have any right to any peace. I'll answer any of our friends' other questions in writing. Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0215par0066	Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0216par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'm going to address a matter above politics and ask you to kindly, please, stay on top of it. The most famous architect of the Republic of Turkey and the last representative of the Ottoman school, Architect Kemaleddin Beyin - who is our architect - is the pioneer of the First National Architecture Stream. He was also the first founder of the Chamber of Ottoman Engineers and Architects. Again, this architect is the world's ancestor, father, of the idea of public housing. It has many works, and its most important work is our architect who restores the Mascidi Aksa -- our architect, unfortunately, the museum at the University of Gazi -- which is the museum where his family has given special items -- which has been shut down by the Vessel University Rectorship and returned to his family. I'm restoring the same rectory, Mimar Kemaleddin Hall. He's shown up, and he's found a piece that's been removed from the original. I've delivered it to you in my speech and in the motions for questions. I'd like to ask your attention on this matter, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0217par0070	Can I answer that?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0218par0071	Yes, Mr. Secretary, we have three minutes.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0217par0072	This is not a museum controlled by our Ministry of Museums.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0219par0073	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0217par0074	It's the rectory that opens the museum and shuts it down, but I'm saying right now, if our friends contact the family, the family wants these artifacts to be exhibited by us, we'll make the necessary attempt to display them in a proper museum. I'm giving that order to our friends. It will be done.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0220par0075	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0221par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. I've made a commitment to express my opinion, Mr. President, in order to use this time, to see that there's a time remaining without asking questions. Today, the Constitutional Court decided what was a violation of rights regarding the Sledgehammer case. I'm really happy that the Constitutional Court has decided to honor the law they voted for. I congratulate the Supreme Court, the President and his members. Yesterday, the ruling party group did not discuss the motion that we had made yesterday to make Mr. Engin Alan take the oath to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey before the House took its vacation, because it did not support the ruling party. Now, I hope that after this decision, Mr. Engin Alan will be released and will come and swear in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The court has provided this opportunity that the ruling party has not voted for by majority. Of course, not just for Mr. Engin Alan, but for all of our citizens, all of our prisoners, who have been wrongfully tried and condemned by a method of law underfoot in the sledgehammer, I send our greetings and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0222par0081	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0223par0082	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary something about the subcontractor system in an increasing amount of time. Everything is being looted in Turkey, and labor is being looted by the subcontractor system. With the help of the Justice and Development Party, the subcontractor system is put into every aspect of its working life; ununioned, unsecured work is imposed on people. All of the state's work is being transferred to subcontractors, and the Turkish Grand National Assembly is expanding the subcontractor system. These people are our people, Mr. Secretary, our citizens. When you're sentenced to minimum wage and non-compensation, you can't accept it. The subcontractor system that steals our citizens' lives must be set in motion to end the unorganized, unsecured work system as soon as possible. I don't think the Justice and Development Party has a problem with that, but I'm still asking: when will the subcontractor system at least end in public? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0224par0087	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 8th article. Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz, MP of Adana on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, has asked for a speech on the first chapter. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0225par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the MHP Group on the first chapter of the Law Bill on the establishment of the Gelipoli Historical Area of the Çanakkale Wars. I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, the match of history is rare, the battle of Çanakkale, written by one of its greatest epics, without a doubt, is not just a military victory. Çanakkale is the name of a great struggle that our nation has fought with unique faith and determination in all its poverty and poverty. A decisive role by the Turkish nation is a battle that has reached the height of our nation's heroism and sacrifice. The victory of Çanakkale is not only a blessed memory of our past, but also the most powerful inspiration for our march into the future, but also for the feeling of the Turkish nation. The land of this heroic epic is indispensable to the Turkish nation and means a great deal. As a result, the Gallipoli Peninsula was declared a national park in 1973. Again, the Gallipoli Peninsula Historical National Park was introduced in Turkey for the first time, although there were many national parks, only here to preserve the memories of our saints and their memories to future generations on February 17, 2000. It has been carried out according to the Law of the National Parks of 2873 and the Law of the Historical National Park of Gallipolis Peninsula No. 4533. The purpose of the Law on the Historical National Park of Gallipoli Peninsula 4533 is to introduce the historical, cultural values and forest and vegetation of the Gallipoli National Park, which has already taken place in 1915 Çanakkale sea and land battles, to the nations of the world to serve international peace as a beautiful example of Turkey's defence and nature. The basics, measures to be taken, inspections to be made, equal motives to be met, and legal and criminal provisions to be subjected to in accordance with the stated purpose. It is also the law that determines the basis for the construction of the national parking space, its preservation, its improvement, its development, and its long-term development plan. This area was also listed as protected by the International Association of Nature and Nature Resources in 1997. The plan was planned for long-term development of the national parking lot, and the plan was designed according to these laws, and the plan for planning on protecting, developing, developing, promoting the national park, which determines the nature of the implementation of the plans for the protection and development zones envisioned by this plan, and is approved by the Ministry. According to the current long-term development plan for national park protection and development regions, property, protection, use, construction, infrastructure and transportation, navigation, and approved plans are also the blueprints for implementation. The national parking space was governed and protected by these plans. Now we've got a bill. What is being done along with this bill? Now, along with this bill, the national park status of the Gallipoli Peninsula Historical National Park is being removed. The Historical National Park Law of Gallipoli Peninsula 4533 is being annulled. The country will not be subject to the National Park Law 2873 since the area has been removed from national park status. With the bill, the management of the area will be taken from the Ministry of Forestry and transferred to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. The amendments to the Law on Public Relations 4734 have been made, and many exemptions have been noted. All areas, including forested areas within the national park, are being given the presidency, free of charge. The bill removes the area's national park status. Why is that? Is the National Parks Law No. 2873 protected or not governed by the Historical National Park Law of 4533 and the long-term development plan prepared? Is it intended to remove the area's national park status and eliminate the National Parks Act 2873 and the protective and restrictive provisions of Forest Law 6831 and rule the field as they please? Is the Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks unable to protect or manage the national parking space, which is under the administration of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism? As in many developed countries, national parking spaces and other protected areas in our country are run by the general directorate, organisation and ministry for nature protection and national parks. It is clear that the aim of this bill is not to protect, develop, and maintain sustainable governance; is it to tolerate structures that they want to open this area completely to use? This issue is not very clear in the arrangement of the bill. The bill has provided arrangements that will not be searched for permits in the Law of the Forest, that will not be subject to the Law of Public Contract 4734. Now, when you look at the Ministry's defense here, we're trying to get a co-ordinate here, and they're calling it a one-hand operation. Well, then, when you look at the Gallipoli Peninsula Historical National Park, about 53 or 55 percent of its nearly 30,000 hectares are forested. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, therefore the National Parks General Directorate, with 50 years of experience, has done some serious work at the point of protecting, keeping this place alive, maintaining its values. Until we connect this to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, this law... if your goal here is to ensure unity, unity between institutions, you strengthen the National Director of Parks within the Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs, you make the organization within it. It's already got a 50-year-old background that controls this place. Most of the people who stayed there are under the spell of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. When you look at the bill, it is said that all work that may already be in 53 per cent will be conducted by this Ministry again. Again, the Çanakkale MPs are here, you all know, where the wind is strongest, and that region is one of Turkey's most sensitive areas to fire. If I'm not mistaken, about 40,000 acres were lost there in the fire, and one of the most important fires in Turkey every year is that region. Now, you don't trust the Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks, and you're doing this to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism? If you don't trust the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs -- it's true, we've made a lot of claims about it -- you'll change it, you'll bring someone better who can do the Ministry.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0226par0104	We do.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0225par0105	Well, then, if you're counting on it, let me just say that I said it last year. Look, just because your intentions are good doesn't mean anything. You know, last year, the Çanakkale Design Center was built, and we all supported it, and we said, "It's a good thing to keep the spirit alive." But do you know what happened? Unfortunately, the forest and waterworks department has cast a shadow over the work done there. I'm not saying that. In his own book, he says: "This is a 58 trillion-dollar tender. " Dear friends, 5 companies are participating in the 58 trillion-dollar tender. Alan's starting the firm, but GINTAS is suing, and he's winning the case. You know what they do when they win the case? It's written in his books by the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, who says: "We had the firm pay for the winning case, and he wanted the company and the profit deprivation, and we gave it to him." And how much did you look at these expenses and profit deprivations? At least six or seven trillion. You know what happens after all? There's a lot of pressure here on officers to sign a commission that's not in the contract. Those officers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...they're all being transferred because he didn't sign these rights. Is there a minister or official from the EC PARTY who could answer that, or was the Minister able to answer? That's the Minister you trust. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0227par0110	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Mustafa Serdar Soydan.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0228par0113	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the first chapter of the Bill of Law on the establishment of the Gelibolu Historical Area of the Çanakkale Wars. My respects to all of you. This is how the historical National Park of the Gallipoli Peninsula is defended by the country where the Turkish nation stands up to the most difficult conditions. Each square foot is watered by the blood of the martyrs, and the world is considered insurmountable. The land that hasn't lost its importance since ancient times is the shortest way to move Asia's riches to Europe. It is one of the strategic sites in the world because of its properties. In 1995, with the decision to open an international idea project competition, it was agreed that these battlefields would be called peace parks and such. In 1998, an architectural project of a Norwegian team became the 1st, after which Professor Raci was approved in 2003 by an ODTU team headed by Almondli. In 2003-2004, the strategy, implementation priorities, policies and detailed sub-projects of this plan emerged a theoretical document equipped with holistic, scientific and universal principles. It is surrounded by the Aegean Sea and the Canakkale Straits, respectively, to the west, south, and east. But there is a territorial border north of the national park. In total, eight of the 12 residential units in the Eceabat district of Çanakkale are in Milli Park. There are martyrdoms, foreign soldiers' graves, battlefields, remains of war, plates, castles, trenches, monuments, books, museums, promotional centers, resorts. These remains have been declared and preserved as sites and cultural assets. In the historical peninsula, it has a unique geography of its natural beauty as well as historical and cultural values. Some physical arrangements have been made in the region from 2002 to today by AKP governments, but it has been found that instead of the main theme of peace, "peace," spiritual values have been created, and all the arrangements have been made have "peace" been pushed back. The budgetary price for investments in the area is on very large scales, and the transfer and management of this is largely based on Ankara. On such a large scale, the necessity of physical interference for the region is still discussed by scientists. During construction, excavations, construction and road work within the national park, historical and cultural values have been irreparably damaged. The habitats of people living in the region have been restricted, unable to produce on their land. Finally, a martyrship is expected to take place in the area of some 3,000 martyrs in the Agadere position, while the Museum of Panorama 1915 will be carried out on the graves of the martyrs. The government has once again proven how far away their work is from scientific values. It has never been discussed what kind of acquisition visitors produce after their tour of the region. The findings show that these achievements are mainly focused on the tourist trip. In addition, serious errors and problems are being made in the area regarding the organisation, discipline, and guidance services. It is not possible to protect, protect, protect the region, and carry cultural and historical heritage to future generations without offering the possibility of happy and peaceful life to the people of the region. Members of parliament have launched a new era in the 12-year-old AKP ruling Gallipoli national park. It was replaced by understanding that opted for peaceful and universal language, which put war, spiritualism, and Islamic values ahead of its own. The idea of the region's historical, geographical, and cultural heritage has been removed from its understanding of preserving and living and not based on scientific planning and work, building, facilities, concreteification of the region and the loss of historical and cultural tissues. The bill we're talking about wants to bring that understanding to life. Visitors to the national park are told many unrealistic superstitions. The field guidance, created in 2003 by the Longtime Development Plan, approved to prevent such narratives and superstitions, has been eliminated, opening the way for political supporters and guides. Gallipoli National Park status is being lifted. In terms of protection, this area is transformed into an ordinary area of various sites. The 100-year buildup of Gallipoli National Park is not showing itself in the new proposal. In particular, between 1994 and 2004, the work of planning is ignored with intense efforts and scientific values. In the last 20 years, the concepts of the peace park, which has reached social prevalence and entered legal legislation, and the name of the historic national park has been completely removed from the draft. I mean, there's no peace left, no word of nationality left. The lack of co-ordination, which has been complained about for years, has been transformed into an authoritarian structure, rather than being resolved by negotiation, dialogue and co-operation. A central authoritarian structure has been established that has excluded the region's relevant official institutions from the process, which has not included any local institutions and institutions, NGOs and social communities. This makes it clear to us that there is a bill that rejects local participation and the understanding of modern democratic governance. In particular, the request of a 1 per cent budget contribution from the Çanakkale Chamber of Commerce and Industry for the municipality of Çanakkale is surprisingly wrong. Because these two institutions have no direct ties to the region. These areas are not found in work, service, space and borders. In this case, spending money on the area of the relevant institutions also brings legality. In addition, only our warnings to the Council of Co-ordination of Çanakkale, which has not been decided on the basis of the decision, have been added. As it is known, the coordination board is not a decision board, it's just a consultation board. Participating from the budget of these institutions is not in line with the model of democratic life and democratic governance. When the bill is carefully examined and given the government's previous protection areas, status sites and practices in the national parks, what a danger we face. In addition, it is possible that the Minister and the government will do all the good work and organizations within the historical national park limits within the framework of today's laws. We all deserve to know what's stopping the Minister today. For 12 years, the government's view of nature, of the environment has shown us that the government's understanding is that the balance of use of protection should not be forgotten. We will not allow this understanding to be judged in the history of Gallipoli National Park. Today, the land of the land, watered by the blood of our martyrs, fought by soldiers of a nation of national independence, is now a symbol of peace, freedom, national independence. Members of parliament, just nineteen years after the victory of Çanakkale, Ataturk gave the world this message of peace, tolerance and civilization that is unique: The heroes who shed their blood on the land of this land, here you are in the land of a friend, sleeping in peace and quiet. You, side by side with the Mehmets, are the sheep's sheep. Mothers who send their children to war from distant lands, make your tears stop, your children are in our midst. They are our sons after they have died in the land. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Members of parliament, Çanakkale has become the city of peace. The historic National Park in Çanakkale, the city of peace, should be the world peace park. A new legal arrangement must be made by taking advantage of the 2003-approved Longtime Development Plan, which led by Professor Dr. Raci Bademli, in a process of falling behind the bill that will include participants, negotiators and especially local regions. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0229par0137	Thank you, Mr. Soydan. Mardin MP Erol Dora on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0230par0140	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on behalf of the first chapter of the Bill of the Law on the establishment of the Gelipoli Historical Field President of Çanakkale Wars 601. I salute the General Assembly. With the Bill of the Law on the establishment of the Gelipoli Historical Area of Çanakkale Wars, a new de facto situation is being created, which will be remembered in 2015, concerns that the Battles of Çanakkale and Gallipoli will be brought up in the 100th year event. We consider it a major failure to introduce a declaration to the peoples of the world and to the peoples of Turkey to serve world peace, especially when emphasises on national and spiritual feelings are made on the presidential purpose of its 1st article. Dear lawmakers, since we are all against wars, we believe that a case of the Çanakkale Wars must be a priority duty of all states and governments to show the necessary responsibilities so that it does not repeat itself in any geography of the world. In this regard, we find it necessary to include statements that emphasize world peace in the first article of the bill. The lack of the government's bill is sufficient, except that someone who has a four-year degree degree in grad school is required to carry out the presidential post, which is envisioned and highly important. This is one of the attempts by the government to invent a special authority for the person it often does. Dear lawmakers, another thing that stands out in this bill is that the state exists but the public is forgotten. So that the economic and social dimension of the rights holders of the movers, which have been established in the village settlements or have formed a cordon, is not thought of, as if the inhabitants of the village are being subjected to a veiled remittance. They are wanted by the government to be removed from the land they've been reaping for years, from the fields they've sown, and from the fields they've planted. Dear lawmakers, of course, can gain greater meaning when legislation can be prepared with an inclusive quality of historical, cultural and natural habitat. No historical, cultural place in its protection, development, introduction care should be subject to further advocacy. This includes hundreds of buildings and sacred sites that are still living and living in the territory of Asia Minor and Mesopotamia, and are in danger of destruction, destruction, and destruction. For example, Turkey has hundreds of historical churches and monasteries belonging to Armenians, Greek and Suryans, which are about to be destroyed. The majority of these churches continue to be destroyed and destroyed because of lack of care, because of the attacks of the treasurers, and partly because of the creation of new zoning sites. On the other hand, some churches and monasteries, which have survived in part, are still known to be used in inappropriate forms, such as barns and barns. Mr. President, Turkey does not meet the sensitivities required by contracts under its Treaty on the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage and the Protection of the European Archaeological Heritage Act. One of the most vivid examples of this is Hasankeyf. Again, a similar example is clearly known by the Ministry of Culture as not to show the necessary care and importance for the excavations of Dara Ancient City, which has been referred to as the Ephesian of the Southeast, which has been inhabited by various civilizations for thousands of years. Dear lawmakers, another example is the policy of the destruction of visiting sites that are particularly important to our Alevi citizens, especially by leaving them under a dam in the area of Dersim. As you can see, the government's way of dealing with natural, historical and cultural sites is shaped by policies in which the government is indiscriminately pursuing capital, which operates in the interests of public natural habitats in the affairs of mines, HESESTs, dams, forest slaughters. Thus, measures must be taken to preserve these historical and cultural values, not just for one people, but for all of Turkey, even for the common cultural heritage of the world, which has survived until today. Dear MPs, I'd like to continue my talk on recent developments in Iraq, which have been on the agenda of the region and the world. The ISIS terrorist group continued its occupation and attacks in the region after the invasion of Mosul. As of last week, the International Migration Organization announced that about 500,000 people had to leave their homes only in Mosul. Kurds, Arabs, Assyrians, Suryani, Keldanis, Armenians, Turkmen and Ezidis living in the region are trying to flee to safe zones. News is coming that the ISIS terrorist organization has massacred thousands of people in the region. We still don't have healthy information about the fate of our citizens who were taken hostage. Dear lawmakers, wars have never been lacking in Mesopotamian geography throughout history, so until today, human dramas have been endless in this geography. Although they were not on the side of these wars, the most damaged were the different ethnic and religious groups in the minority. Today it is clear in this framework that the invasion of Mosul and surrounding cities by ISIS has suffered great damage, as has been in Syria for three years, the peoples of Assyria, Süryani, Keldani, Armenian, Turkmen and Ezidi. More than half of this population is estimated to have left Syria before the civil war in Syria. The fates of John Abraham and the Greek Orthodox Metropolitan Paul Printer, a senior Christian religious man, who had been kidnapped in Syria for over a year, remain uncertain. Mr. President, the area of Mosul and Ninova, controlled by ISIS terrorists, is one of the areas in which the Suryani live. According to reports from the region, thousands of Suryani and Armenians are fleeing the area to Kurdistan or taking refuge in churches and monasteries in other secure areas. There are also reports from the press that some of the historical churches and monasteries they left behind have been taken over by ISIS and that some of them have been bombed and destroyed. In addition, the despot practices that the ISIS has put into effect in areas controlled by the group do not recognise habitats for people with different beliefs. Precious lawmakers have dropped their population to close to 1.5 million inhabitants in Iraq in attacks against Christians since the fall of Saddam Hussein's regime in 2003. The number of 35,000 Christians living in Mosul is estimated to have dropped to 3,000 in the last decade. With the recent attacks, this number is said to have dropped under a thousand. Precious MPs, Kurds living in Mosul, Arabs, Assyria, Suryani, Keldanis, Armenians, Turkmen and Ezidis are also native peoples of Asia Minor and Mesopotamia, and are related to the peoples of Turkey. All political parties, especially in power, need to act more and equally in their foreign and domestic politics and rhetorics, particularly highlighting the brotherhood and peace between cultures and peoples, as well as developing an approach and attitude that does not alter any ethnic culture and belief. Because belief in the brotherhood of the people in the human family is only superficial rhetoric unless it is revealed at the level of practice. Between the peoples and the faiths, the hierarchy, judgmental and exploitation-based policies will not only harm concerned people, they will be replaced in the social history of mankind, in the history of politics, in the history of art, with great sufferings. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have once again made clear the developments in the region's privacy that universal values such as human rights, democracy, freedom, equality are inevitable to be implemented in Turkey, especially in the Middle East. Otherwise, the government's employment and political policies would not be an effective country in the region, and it would have appeared with these recent events. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0231par0159	Thank you, Mr. Dora. In the name of his subjects, Mr. Ismail Kashdemir of Çanakkale. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0232par0163	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the Bill of Law on the establishment of the Gelibolu Historical Area of the Battles of Çanakkale. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, the establishment of the Vice President of Çanakkale Wars of Gallipoli Historical Area is indeed due to a need that we have all expressed in many environments so far. The historical field presidency is a bill that has come to the agenda of our General Assembly by the Council of Ministers' decision to complete many lack of co-ordination so far. I really want to thank Çanakkale Martyrship, our National Park General Directorate, and the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, for their hard work in the Çanakkale Wars. The field office is an important, correct step forward, far beyond what has ever been done. So, we think that on the 100th anniversary of the Canakkale Wars, the president of Çanakkale Field will have a very important function. On the 100th anniversary of 1915, Çanakkale Field Presidency will become a place for the international arena to be held on the 100th anniversary of the Çanakkale victories. Mr. Ministry of Culture and Tourism, with the high efforts of our Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and with the great efforts of our bureaucrats, we believe that this bill will have a very important function. Of course, here we had the opportunity to see the unifying power of Çanakkale again in the Assembly. Our opposition and our power have a great share in this law. I'd like to say that we, as the ruling party at our commission meetings, as the opposition parties, are all acting together in the downloading of this law to the General Assembly and coming to this stage, but we need to put our hands on our conscience. Of course the skill is a compliment. The places of the Çanakkale Martyrs, the places of the Canakkale Wars, the places of the Canakkale herory, were unfortunately not of the importance and purpose until 2002. Thanks to the importance of our Prime Minister and the victory of the AK PARTI in Çanakkale, the Çanakkale Wars and the Chanakkale spirit, today's Çanakkale martyrdoms have become far more important and more beautiful than the foreign martyrdoms we coveted and coveted. So, with the establishment of this Alan presidency, with the activities of the Alan presidency there, we would like to say that we intend to work with you in the discovery of a martyrry that is worthy of our history, worthy of our victories, worthy of our herory, worthy of the spirit of Çanakkale. Of course, I'd like to point out that I've taken the previous statements, the reviews, in a positive way. I'd like to express to you once and for all that in our villages there, that neither our villages nor our villagers will be able to do anything to their rights and interests. Of course, as it has just been expressed there once again, the field presidency is not an official position from control. The head of the field is always open to the Ministry of Culture's Inspection Board, then the Court's audit, and in the latest analysis. So I'd like to say once again that we disagree with the allegations that the budget of the field presidency here will be spent without account to anyone. Çanakkale really is our common value. Çanakkale is the common denominator of this nation, its minimum owner. The spirit of Çanakkale is a sign that when the heart and power of our beloved nation cannot overcome, there is no challenge he can't overcome. The spirit of Çanakkale is a great, Ari solidarity, a fusion. Çanakkale, the idea of being one heart without any distinction, to walk into a common future with the power from a common past, to become a nation, and to become a nation. That's why Çanakkale is so important to us. 2023 is one of the most important concepts that will give us the power to achieve both our goals and our future goals of civilization. Canakkale is a place where human values are not lost, even in the bloodiest of battles. The battle of Çanakkale is a battle of gentlemen. So we'd like to say once again that in this nation's future, the Chanakkale spirit will always play a very important role. Once again, I pray for the mercy of our beloved martyrs, and once again, God bless them. I wish this bill to be a blessing and a blessing to Çanakkale, to our country, to our nation, and to salute the great assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0233par0173	Thank you, Mr. Kashdemir. On behalf of the individuals, the last word belongs to Mr. Lütfü Turkkan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0234par0177	Mr. President, I've been promised a bill of law on the establishment of the Gallipoli Historical Field President. Minister, it's a very technical law. And as far as my interest is concerned, it's not much of a technicality, but I'd like to ask you a quick question: is it really, really, that in this case, with the loopholes from the law, the existing municipalities there might be able to build some areas, I just want to ask them, is there?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0235par0179	Impossible.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0234par0180	Impossible. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0235par0182	Not a chance in a million.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0234par0183	I mean, it would be a sad thing to do if there was any zoning rate with the sanctions of the municipalities there.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0235par0184	He has absolute immunity.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0234par0185	Thank you. The Çanakkale Wars are known as the bloodiest chapter in history during the First World War. It's the brightest page in the history of the Turk's truly numerous victories, full of glory. We've given thousands of martyrs in the Battles of Çanakkale, thousands of soldiers wounded. There is no way that every Turkish person who visits the cemetery where our martyrs lie today in Çanakkale cannot live in those moments and not shed tears over the lives of our martyrs. Many Kirkuklus have also participated in the Çanakkale Wars and have been martyred, thousands of Kerkuk people from Turkmen territory have been identified as participating in the national struggle. And as for the martyrs, they are in light. When you go to Çanakkale Martyrship, you will find that many Kerkukl in their 20s lie side by side with an Erzurumite, an Istanbulian, a Şanlıurfalı and a Gaziantepli in their homeland. Now the bones of the Kirkukites, who were left behind by the son of Anatolia, who had died for the country in the 57th Infantry Regiment, are aching. The land where they were born is scattered, occupied. Like Kerkuklu, Ankara, Istanbul, we have thousands of young people who are willing to sacrifice their lives for the land. In the glorious armies of the great fathers for the sake of unity, for the sake of unity, we will take holy care of the trust of our grandfathers who entrusted us with this land, saying, "Allah, Allah!" Mr. Prime Minister and government officials, if they bother to go to the Çanakkale martyrs, if they read the names there, you will find today that the Iraqi Turkmen who were subjected to oppression, persecution, injustice, human rights violations and massacres also served at the Çanakkale Martyry. In the name of humanity, justice and justice, today the Iraqi Turks have the right to live like Gaza and the Syrians, but today, unfortunately, the Turkmen are abandoned to their fates. Today, those who watch the violence of the Turks here are not allowed to boast of Çanakkale. Turkey's real support for the Turks in Iraq will strengthen Turkey's hand, as it can sustain Turkmen in Iraq, but unfortunately this is not being done. To shed light on history, many people know the active role played by Iraqi Turkmen in the termination of the terrorist organization ASALA, which once troubled Turkey. Turkey was in a difficult position that day when these heroic Turkmen sacrificed their lives. Today the Iraqi Turks are in trouble and need help. Does their motherland, Turkey, extend its hand to the Gazans and the Syrians, holding the Iraqi Turks long enough to help them? No. Does it protect the Turkmen and help strengthen their hands? I'm sorry to say, no. One night he may come suddenly, the Turkmen, who were suddenly abandoned by Turkey to their destinies by their dreams, are now alone and helpless. They expect to be the target of a final wave of ethnic cleansing. After that, eternal captivity. Although it did not, a roaring Turkey was a source of hope for Turkmen, who were sometimes treated as third-rate human beings. Unfortunately, today in Iraq, Turkmen are the only ethnic entity with no legal representation and no armed power. Within one night, the 1,000-year-old cities of Turkmen, Musul and Telafer, are occupied by militants of an armed organisation whose total numbers are not more than 10,000. The 1,000-year-old city of Türkmen, Kerkuk, is under control without a single bullet being fired by a group of hackers who know what's going on. There is almost a human drama near Turkey. Turkmen, whose crimes include thinking in Turkish, reading in Turkish, singing in Turkish, are now treated as refugees in the land where they live. Turkmeneli is dying, the AKP is watching. Now, I strongly advise you to keep your eyes open a little longer, all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0236par0197	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Now I'm going to go with the question-answer process. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0237par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, as Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2013, how much did you invest in our province of Adana? How much do you intend to invest in our Adana province in 2014? And my second question is, do you plan to tour this place, which has the most beautiful beaches in the world of 44km, from Karataş to the border of Tarsus, which includes Aciatan and Tuzla, starting with Tuzla? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0238par0204	Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0239par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, do you have any work on Sultan Murat Martyrship and Harmantepe Martyrship in the District of Hazmantepe? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0240par0208	Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0241par0209	You turned on my microphone, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0240par0210	No, that's where Mr. Moroglu entered the system. Here you go, Mr. Yellowhead.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0241par0212	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Secretary, our previous minister has made many announcements and has always worked in Çanakkale. From the entrance to Çanakkale, a statue, such as the one in the United States, they had promised that the statue of Herod would be established and that Çanakkale would be shared with the public and Turkey would always share it with the public. I asked you that in a question, and there's still no answer. Are you still behind this project, or has this continuity been eliminated since you arrived, and is this project not going to happen? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0242par0215	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0243par0216	Mr. Secretary, there is a case in Stockholm, where the Cem Uzans have filed, but what about the rights of the Kepez Electric Anonym Corporation in Antalya, which the Ministry of Energy seized from the Uzans, and the shareholders of the Çukurova Corporation in Adana, other than the Ministry and Cem Uzan shares? Our questions regarding this have not been answered by the government. Mr. Secretary, it is not fair to say that you should go to court for the share of the small shareholders, who have been openly violated by the law, who have not been paid the price. You have to give the rights of these shareholders to the state. Is it not contrary to the Constitution's right to possession of small savings owners who have nothing to do with the fight between the state and Cem Uzans? Where's the justice of the state, where's the mercy, where's the justice? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0244par0219	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0245par0220	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister, when this bill is passed, the technical staff working here, the other technical staff working here, the assistant staff, are now required by the Ministry of Forestry Regional Directorate to either retire or transfer to other places. It is said that he is facing pressure. When this law happens, are you going to take advantage of the technical staff here, or aren't you going to invite the technical staff here in the national parks? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0246par0223	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0247par0224	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, as it is known, the synagogue, the church, the synagogue, and the mosque are considered places of worship, but the mosque of Alevi is not a place of worship, can it explain why? Will they or will they not accept their Jerusalem as a place of worship? What tax collector also contributed to the mosque in Çamlıca, and how much did he donate? You know, all donations made by the taxpayers of income and institutional taxes can be written by a recent amendment to the tax law. Now, Alevi, it is not written that the donations to the congregation, the synagogue, and the synagogue are being written, but the donations to the church are gone. Isn't that unfair to Alevi citizens? When are they gonna figure this out? Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0248par0228	Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0249par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. The Minister is a tourist centre located about 5km southwest of the Düzköy district of Tripoli, on a corrupt road from Çalköy, Çalköy, to Çalköy Municipality, but is the center of interest for tourists every year. Do you have any study of the Playcave? Is the project also being developed for the opening of the second part of the Playcave? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0250par0232	Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0251par0233	Mr. Secretary, is it true that during the construction of the Marmaray constructions, there were historical, cultural, or ancient findings, and that these findings were marketed by a number of people without informing the ministry? Is there any claim that you've been passed on to your side? Are there any investigations, investigations, and investigations under way?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0250par0234	Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0252par0235	Mr. President, thank you. Now, because it's been brought up over and over again, it needs to be said again, so this is a peace park, to be called a peace park, to be called a peace park, to be organized as a peace park. Now, the whole point of this park is not to send a peace message, but one of its important dimensions is to send a message of peace. There has already been one of the most serious wars in the world, where our nation has fought for a national salvation against imperialism, where the founder of our state, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, came out here on the historic stage of history, where the lions of Bedrin, who he called so glorious, were a soldier, a history of sacrifice written here, the honor of Muhammad Iqbal, a struggle called the honour of the nation, and we must not forget that here, we did not go to invade the land of another country. We've been attacked by an intruder and an imperialist. In the face of this insurgent and imperialist attack, our beloved nation, Saint Mehmetchik, has given the answer needed to protect these lands. That's an important part of the job. It's one of our missions, but it's not limited to that. Those who came to our land and died in this land now lie with friendly soldiers in this land, and they are entrusted to us forever, as Ataturk called out to the Anzac mothers after such a great battle was waged. Here we also send a peace message to the world every year to commemorate this event, which is almost a founding element in the national history of Australia and New Zealand. Thus, some sentences may be misconstrued here. I don't want to think that that's what anyone meant by it, but instead of peace, the spiritual and Islamic aspect of war comes forward, such a message is sent. It is not right to use the words of Maneviyat (Islam) and the words "Islam" (Islamic). If we have to use a word side by side with Islam in this sentence, we use the word "peace." Of course, we don't allow the message of a patriot against peace. After all, we will perform these memorials of the entire world in the next ceremony by inviting the heads of state and government of the countries who fought on our side and the heads of state and government who fought against our country, the heads of state and government who fought against our country.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0253par0238	It's already happening.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0252par0239	And from here, we'll send a stronger message to the whole world, and we'll do our best to take it to a higher level. This place is already being given special attention in the time of our government, and we're going to make it a bigger organization. So the point is, if you don't give a peace message here, there'll be a monastic message from here. It shouldn't work on a virtual dilemma, such as. In order to send a message of peace, there must be no such sentence as rejection of its spiritual identity and Islamic identity. So in order to give a message of peace, instead of giving a message of peace, spiritual elements are stepping forward. The paradigm is also a paradigm wrong sentence, and mentally wrong sentence, I would like to stress that in particular. Other than that, we're grateful for the sensitivity of our friends here, where they're sensitive to certain concepts to protect the boundaries of this historical field, so that there won't be any shortages here. We want to make it clear here that the definition of the Gallipoli Peninsula's Historical National Park is exactly the same as the map in the Council of Ministers' addition, and the boundaries of this place are defined by the addition of the coordinates provided by the General Directorate of the National Parks. In order to avoid speculation that a number of places in this area have been excluded for other purposes, the definition of the historical field is simply a definition of the areas specified in this law, not the general and legal area, such as the national park. So this area has been marked from 1,400 points to an absolute recognition of absolute protection. The other thing is, why was it that the National Parks General Directorate, the Ministry of Forestry, the Ministry of National Defense were removed and arranged in this way? That is the ultimate purpose of the arrangement. There's a lot of faith here; there's work done by the Ministry of National Defense, and there's work done by the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, and there's work done by us. But at this point, it is necessary for this place to be managed by one hand and to be structured in accordance with its historical identity, to be maintained in accordance with its historical identity and to be introduced to young people and new generations in our country as well as to people in the outside world, in order to be restored to places where they are restored, and therefore this bill has already been carried out. What was it that they couldn't do, and we came up with this bill? First of all, there was a lot of faith, a conflict of authority. Second, even though many elements were done in infrastructure and upper structure, the failure of this function could not function from a cultural point of view, eventually the work that had been done was back to square one. It has been decided that this presidency will be established in order to manage all of this in one hand. Another point is that the settlements here are particularly sensitive about the veteran villages -- of course, we respect this sensitivity, but there's a huge misunderstanding, and there's a misunderstanding in the text that doesn't respond in any way, which is that there's a misunderstanding about the village settlements -- that we've protected the body and made no difference, which is not understood where we're going to apply the opposition to the Commission in this area -- that we're subjecting our villagers in this area to the occupation of the opposition. There's already an inverse application. If we had accepted the proposal of opposition, then there would have been a real danger of relocation of these villages. However, the 4th article of the bill was commissioned to encourage the development of the people of the veteran villages within the historical territory of the presidency (g) with the 8th joke (e.g.). The presidency also has a mission to create projects for locals in this sense. As the ministry, this arrangement was placed here for their well-being by being preserved in the existing locations of our veteran villages. The other thing about the president is that... we wanted to keep the definition a little wider, and we wanted to get a motion field here, and we didn't have a single definition, so we came up with a definition that could be more than one faculty, which could be more than one, because there are elements here that concern a cultural identity. Second, we think that the President here should have a tendency to reformate in the plans of this place. So in this regard, we care very much about having a movement width in the way that we choose any one of these schools. Of course, if we just said "historic" we would limit ourselves to a very different place, or if we talked about another profession, we would limit ourselves again. We've put that definition that gives us this movement width in order to find someone with these qualities with the highest capacity we can, because it requires special projects to protect the identity of this place from now on. The MPs asked special questions about various areas. Of course, this was sometimes mentioned about the Marmaray excavations, and no archaeological find found in the Marmaray excavations was involved in smuggling. All finds have been protected by the Directorate of the Istanbul Archeological Museums. Adana Karataş was authorized to work on planning for Adana Governorate in 2012. Once the planning work is completed, public land will be earmarked and private property will be planned and open to investment. In 2013, Adana received a grant to invest $6,130,000 in infrastructure. The Trabzon Playcave... is being organized by the governors, as it is known. If our ministry is asked for technical and financial support, it will be helpful within the scope of available resources. If that support is requested, of course, we're happy to do so. Archaeological excavations and restorations are still being carried out by Mardin Museum Directorate at Dara Kören Place. We don't have a project on the statue mentioned to Çanakkale. That was wished then, but we don't have any plans or projects for the construction of this statue. The project cost 15 million. There's been a georadar scan here by the National Parks General Directorate, but there's been no trace of it. Again, asked, the Panorama museum is seen in long-term development plans and protection plans in the area of the Agadere Martyrship. The Panorama museum is located on the shoreline and has not yet begun, as there is a publicisation problem. The Adana Archeology Museum has tendered stage one. 20 million 507,718 lira grants have been sent. The Adana Ethnography Museum has a grant of $1,596,735. Mr. President, that's all I have. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0254par0259	What about our questions, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0252par0260	I'll answer the other questions in writing.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0255par0261	We've asked questions, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0256par0262	I will answer other questions in writing. He said, "Time is over."
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0255par0263	Then let him say so, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0256par0264	Okay. Do you mind, Mr. Secretary? You said it, and you said it once, and you said it with a loud voice, please.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0257par0265	It's in the reports, and for the second time, I'm going to answer other questions in writing.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0256par0266	I've heard it and I'll let my friends hear it. Yes, negotiations on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions in article 1, which I will have read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and copyright that the declaration of "History Alan" referred to in Article 1 of the Law Charter on the establishment of the Gelipoli historical site of Chanakkale Wars 601 in which it is currently held is changed to the "National History Area." Alim Light Ahmet Duran Bulut Özcan Yeniçeri Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 1st Amendment in 601 rows. In Article "... We propose and propose that it be added "to display the destructions of war and emphasise the need for peace" after the declaration of it being introduced and passed on to future generations. Pervin Buldan İbrahim Binici for One Property I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main battle of Çanakkale, number 1/927, is the 1st legislature for the establishment of the Gelipoli historical site presidency. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Article 1 - (1) The purpose of this Law is: The Çanakkale Battles of Çanakkale are to regulate its duties and powers with the establishment of the National History Area of Gallipoli in order to preserve, improve, promote, serve international peace, transfer and rule for future generations. Ali Sarıbaş Haluk Eyidoğan Namik Havutça Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0258par0294	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0259par0295	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0256par0296	I'm reading the reason: The term "National History Area" will be used instead of the historical site, which is defined by the emphasis on the international size of the presidential promotional activities, in matters related to the continuation of the Gallipoli National History Area presidency. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 1st Amendment in 601 rows. In Article "... We propose and propose that it be added "to display the destructions of war and emphasise the need for peace" after the declaration of it being introduced and passed on to future generations. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0260par0307	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0256par0308	Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0261par0309	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. To be honest, we don't understand why you disagree with this motion. I'll read the motion again: we want to display the destructions of war and emphasize the need for peace. Why would a congressman object to that, why would he take a position against that? It's extremely difficult to make sense of it. But as far as we can tell, you don't have a problem with peace. I mean, we've been making very important warnings here for about a year and a half, but I'm afraid to say we're not dealing with a government practice that's based on the search for peace in domestic and foreign policy. You follow all the developments in foreign policy in the Middle East. We've repeatedly told you that in Middle Eastern and Syrian politics, a cult-axised approach, a neo-humanist policy that doesn't land, and that this neo-humanist policy, far from the depth, unpredictive strategies have actually made Turkey an actual part of the war. Despite all our warnings, you insisted on continuing this unpredictable foreign policy. You supported sectarian policies in Syria, ISIS gangs, Al Nusra gangs, Al Qaeda groups, and unfortunately, we all have to pay with these bills as a country the consequences of your progress today. El Nusra, al-Qaeda, you're backing ISIS gangs, and you're trying to kill two birds with one stone. On the one hand, you had the vision to fight Assad, to weaken the Syrian regime, and on the other hand, they will fight against the Kurds you fear historically. So you put up a foreign policy on the fact that the Kurds didn't win, but here's the step: the crow you fed began to gouge your eyes out today. Today, the terror wave created by ISIS gangs in Mosul, Iraq, has not only brought historic massacres to all rights there, but Turkey has brought Turkey to the brink of a great war in the Middle East swamp, unfortunately. The consulate raids, you see, citizens of Turkey in the hostage position, I'm looking at these, and the government and the AK PARTY Group are very comfortable. Imagine what a disaster we're facing. Let's leave it to the whole world to see the images of such massive massacres, whether it's ever been taken hostage by a consulate raid or so many citizens. We've got a fire on our hands, and this Congress hasn't even held a hearing on this agenda yet. The foreign minister of this country didn't even bother to inform the General Assembly of this House. So I'd like to stress here that you're not looking for this kind of peace. That's why you don't support this motion. It's the same inside, and we're talking about a process that's been going on inside for a year and a half. As a result of this solution process, you face a historic opportunity to bring lasting peace, to solve a century-old issue, to eliminate a 30-year conflict completely. We've been saying from the beginning: bring here the law of peace and resolution, where this Parliament shall make the law of peace and resolution. What do we do when we say this? You build forts all over the area, you build outposts, you build security dams, you make reconnaissance flights with them, you make applications to jog the memory of the war period. Frankly, we're anxious, and we're starting to feel the burning heat that we're feeling about the war out there in the heat of a civil war that Turkey is going to go to. We're warning you. This Congress is working hours on these kind of law proposals. But we fear that a Parliament that does not work an hour of peace will turn Turkey into a place of fire. And in that fire, I say there's a good chance that we're all going to burn, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0262par0315	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the declaration of the historic Alan (historical historical site) in Article 1 of the Law Charter on the establishment of the Gelipoli historical site of Chanakkale Wars No. 601. Lütfü Türkkan (Alexeli) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Those smartphones were invented, the courage was broken. I'm saying that for all of us. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0263par0325	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0262par0326	Mr. Yeniçeri, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0264par0328	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 1st Article of the Bill of the Law on the establishment of the Gelibolu Historical Area of the Battles of Çanakkale. We have proposed that the concept of the historical field, which we have submitted in Article 1, be expressed as the national historical area, along with the national area. Now, it means something that is unique to a nation, a culture, a system of values, a social structure. In view of this aspect, it is believed that Çanakkale is an area where a nation struggles for life and death, where there is an apocalypse. It would actually be extremely appropriate for such a field to be first identified and expressed as belonging to that nation. But since we have recently had an opposition to this concept of nationalism, against the concept of nationalism, because of ignorance and ignorance, this concept is immediately rejected because it is considered to be the meaning of a group, a person or an understanding. Now, in a culture that comes from motality, of course, you're looking at nationalism as an indistinguishable concept. But you need to know that those who aren't original can't be free. Thus, freedom is based on authenticity. Once you have authenticity, you can only perceive freedom. Second: The national and universal, constantly, people think of each other as the alternative or the opposite of each other, which is completely wrong. In the universal world, every nation, every culture, every ethnicity has its contribution, and therefore it can't be universal without nationality. So if that's the case -- not the anti-national and universal -- we actually have to keep it in this concept as a matter of understanding, perception, and meaning. First of all, this bill, really, is the most meaningful bill that has come to me in the time we've been in this House. Because it tells of the existence of a nation, the discipline, control of a place where the will of the state is established, and an effort to transfer it to generations. It's above all recognition for him, it's a delayed bill, and therefore it's important to celebrate everyone who's worked at it. When we talk about Yahya Kemal, we are the horse whose roots are past. We actually make sense of ourselves by saying, "This is the parallel between the past and the present. " What are you going to set up the parallels with? If you can create this parallel... the link between the past, the state, the horse... by creating the consciousness of the place, by internalizing the meaning that it puts on you and passing it on to your generations. If you can put it into perspective, the generations that you have raised today, yesterday, tomorrow, will come into a position of control over their own lands, their own existence, their own history, their own identity, and therefore, from here, they will make great contributions to universal and also to humanity. The one who does not benefit himself will not benefit the world, nor will the one who does not know his history know the history of the world be unthinkable, unfathomable. So I'm saying that we need to think of the problem that has been constantly discussed in this contrast as actually a combination and a continuation of each other, and we need to think about it that way. Time's up, I'll explain the rest later. For now, I wish you the best of this bill.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0265par0337	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions in Article 2 that I read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 2nd draft of the 601 row. In Article "... We propose and propose the addition of "designation of acts of peace emphasis" after the declaration of protection and the setting of conditions." Pervin Buldan İbrahim Binici for One Property I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main battle of Çanakkale, number 1/927, is the 2nd legislature for the establishment of the Gelipoli historical field presidency. Article 1. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way: "e" and "f." Ali Sarıbaş Haluk Eyidoğan Mustafa Serdar Soydan The National History Area: The Çanakkale Wars and Gallipoli National History Area, which is designated on the additional map and on the list of coordinates, where important historical events take place in the national and international sense, which must be protected with historical and cultural resources and which are dedicated to the presidency by this law. F) National History Field Plans: The aims, strategy and economic structure of the region based on the design of national historical sites and the improvement of the social and economic structure of the region and the plans on every round and scale approved and approved by the Ministry. Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0266par0357	We disagree, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk? Mr. Soydan, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0267par0361	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have made a pledge to you all in Article 2 of the Bill of Law on the establishment of the Gelipoli Historical Area of the Battles of Çanakkale. It shows how sloppy and hasty it is to try to express the expression taking place in the 2nd article of the draft text, titled "Knowledges" as the coordinates alone. The section titled ▪ Other than coordinates is defined by scientific and aesthetically rare and internationally rare natural elements with cultural resource values, protection, rest and tourism areas. Also, according to Article 2's (1) (f), protection plans on all scales must be added and specified that the plans are also a protection plan. Otherwise, these plans will be considered as zoning plans by the enforcer, and this assessment could lead to inescapable violations in the future. The thing that we find most uncomfortable about discussing this bill today is that in the preparation of the bill, we are not given enough information to local executives and NGOs. While secretly preparing the bill in the Ministry corridors, no one knows about it. In our district of Eceabat, many lands have been said to have changed hands in the historical peninsula. What are the structures envisioned in the historic field plans that will come into effect with the Ministry's approval? Where will these structures be built within the historical area? All the people of Çanakkale and our sensitive citizens are curious. With the powers left to the Ministry initiative and uncertainty on these issues, the unprecedented military landings in the historic national parks have been severely exposed and severely exposed to the vast beaches and sites of the country. Mr. Secretary, what area would you better protect by destroying the historical national park and making it historic? Which area will you better protect today that you can't protect? Which of the existing laws prevents you from protecting and protecting more? Your goal is not to protect and protect. Destroying the land where the torch of the National Liberation War was lit, watered by the blood of the martyr, for the sake of the rant. The AKP government has failed to discipline even trips to the national park for 12 years. You've built concrete roads, parking lots, buildings, but there's still chaos and disorder. In the historic national park, the AKP government's simulation centre continues, regardless of all our warnings, the political propaganda of the AKP, which will not be bored, without hesitation, will cause the bones of our martyrs to suffer. What you must tell the next generation is the military genius of Mustafa Kemal, during the Battles of Çanakkale. Mehmedchik is how he defended his country knowing that he was going to die. They're heroics in front and behind the lines. What you need to understand and tell is the price paid for independence, not Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Abdullah Gul. Your duty is to explain to all historical facts the price of independence is paid. Your mission is ataturk, 57. To understand and to tell the world what they said about the regiment: they willingly gave their lives for the holy land, and they changed the fate of the Battles of Çanakkale. Every second that passes here, every moment that is used, every dying plant has drawn the fate of the Turkish country and its nation. The first unit to join the Black Wars, the 57th. The regiment has shown humanity what love is. I remember this heroic regiment with admiration, gratitude, and mercy. I pay my respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0268par0369	Thank you, Mr. Soydan. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 2nd draft of the 601 row. In Article "... We propose and propose the addition of "designation of acts of peace emphasis" after the declaration of protection and the setting of conditions." Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0269par0378	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0270par0379	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0268par0380	I'm reading the reason: Number 1 of the draft text. Based on the peace emphasis proposed in the article, various mechanisms, such as organizing, displaying art, and using various symbols, need to be staged and edited, such as the event that will convey the importance of peace in the field's administration. In this regard, goals, strategies, and planning are needed. For these reasons, the clause must be changed in the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0271par0385	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit06spe0268par0386	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0268par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 105th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision-making in Article 2 of the Law Bill 601, so I'm going to put the matter back to your votes and look for a sufficient number of decisions. All in favor... Can you count it? Our friend says we do. He says we don't have any. I'm voting with an electronic device. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's enough to make a decision, it's been accepted. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 601. The commission is here. The government is here. In Article 3 there are three motions, which I shall have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 3rd Amendment in 601 rows. In the matter of matter, "... After the declaration of war history, we propose and propose the addition of "the importance of peace to the war" to the end of the bell, "but there may be artistic structures that are accepted by the Council of Coordination and highlight the emphasis on peace." One for Pervin Buldan Property Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main battle of Çanakkale, number 1/927, is the 3rd legislature for the establishment of the Gelipoli historical site presidency. Article 1. In the first sentence of his joke, we propose and propose that the historical field declaration of the historic field be replaced as the "National historical zone" and the "d", "e" and "g" dams will be replaced in the following way. Ali Sarıbaş Ramazan Kerim Özkan Haluk Eyidoğan Kamer Young Ihsan Özkes Gürkut Acar D) The maintenance, protection, fire, disease and the fight against the forests and wildlife in the national historical area is carried out by the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs under Law Number 6831. A special plan for the National History Area to put out fires is implemented. In the National History Area, agriculture and animalism, which are subject to private property outside of the first degree archaeological site, is encouraged by the implementation of improved techniques and special deforestations. The implementation of such goals and similar practices under the duties of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism in the National Historical Field provide support and co-operation by the Ministry, mentioned. In these areas, the nature of building and building facilities for the purpose of the use of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism is specified in the historic field plan. The process of drafting, renovating and changing plans on all types and scales of the National History Area is run by the presidency and is implemented by the Ministry's approval. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We provide and copyright the amendment of Article 3 (e) and (g) jokes to the establishment of the Gelibolı Historical Area of the Chanakkale Wars 601 and the addition of the following joke. In the historical site, agriculture, which is the subject of private property outside of the first degree archaeological site, is encouraged by the implementation of improved techniques and special deforestations in agricultural and animalism. The implementation of such goals and similar practices under the duties of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism in the Historical Field provide support and co-operation by the Ministry, mentioned. The basis for building and building facilities in these areas is specified in the historic field plan, including the laws of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism and the standards envisioned in the norms." (g) According to zoning legislation, the planning and revision of Eceabat's zoning plan on municipal borders and mujaviral areas will be carried out by the municipality, not in violation of this Law and historical space plan." (h) It is essential that all investments of the existing Tourism Focus Areas are protected to allow investments in tourism and are planned within the borders of Eceabat Municipality and village settlements. Alim Light Ahmet Duran Bulut Özcan Yeniçeri Lütfü Türkkan Seyfettin Yılmaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0272par0041	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0268par0042	Adana MP Seyfettin Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0273par0044	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment to Article 3 of the Legislative Bill on the establishment of the Gelipoli Historical Area of the Çanakkale Wars. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, you know, the most important reason for this bill was that Mr. Culture Minister's statements in both the Commission and the Parliament stated that it was intended for a single-handed governance and a beautiful event to be held there in the 100th year of the Çanakkale Wars, but now, when we look here, as I just said, 53 percent of the area here is covered by forests, the Ministry of Forests and Waters. Here are the opposites of what the Minister and the government thinks. Well, you'll be running this place one-on-one. Now, as we look at Article 3 (d) joke, it says: "The maintenance, protection of forests in the historic area, the fight against fire, disease and pests is carried out by the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs under Law Number 6831. The Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs provides support and co-operation under Law No. 6831 in the fight against fires, disease, and harm, with the care and protection of wildlife areas in the historic area. The same article (e) joke provides support and co-operation by the Ministry, mentioned in similar practices as part of the duties of the Ministry of Foods, Agriculture and Animalism in the historic area. Where is your claim to be conducted in one hand? Now, as we look here, there was a law in 2000 about this Gallipoli National Park. We see arrangements are being made here, as we refer to the articles of this law. Now, when we look here, in the third article (c), there can be no structures and facilities on the shores of the historic area; except for the historical site plans and museums. So what is added here according to the other law? Set arrangements for historic field planning. So what are you here to bring back to the historical field plans? What will you say when you place this here, in the spirit of the National Park, in the spirit of the Gallipoli Peninsula, in the historical space plans tomorrow? Now this historic plan is made in accordance with the views of the Council for the Presence of Culture and Nature. But unfortunately, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism does not have the right record of the Council for the Protection of Culture and Nature. We've all seen it here. With political pressures, we've all seen how the Prime Minister or the ministers' pressure turned the first-degree status field into a third-degree area overnight. If you give it flexibility to the law, you'll experience it. In front of all of us, in the heart of Ankara, the Gazi compound, where there are 100 years of cedars, linoleum trees, tens of thousands of trees, has been turned into a third-degree status area in one night by this board. Why was it translated? Because the Prime Minister instructed me to come here to the Presidential Palace. All laws have been changed by the boards, and there are reports that one tree will not be cut down. Despite what he said, thousands of trees have been cut down in front of Ankara. Now that your record is so dark... I mean, there's no need to go too far. I've said it many times. Even where you use the Justice and Development Party as a park is in the forest. Take a look at the willow National Park there, and look out the window of that AKP. Ten years ago, it was Ankara's liver, where Ankara had breathed, its willow was Milli Park. What did you do? You parked in front of your building, parked your cars, slaughtered the park there. With this flexibility tomorrow, it is not right that the Prime Minister's bill should pass without removing doubts about what you're going to bring with some of the minister's demands. What did you want to do with the existing law anyway, and you couldn't do it? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0274par0053	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 3rd Amendment in 601 rows. In the matter of matter, "... After the declaration of war history, we propose and propose the addition of "the importance of peace to the war" to the end of the bell, "but there may be artistic structures that are accepted by the Council of Coordination and highlight the emphasis on peace." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and Friends Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0275par0062	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0274par0063	I'm reading the reason: Number 1 of the draft text. Based on the peace emphasis proposed in the article, various mechanisms, such as organizing, displaying art, and using various symbols, need to be staged and edited, such as the event that will convey the importance of peace in the field's administration. In this respect, this must be arranged in the historical context. For these reasons, the clause must be changed in the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main battle of Çanakkale, number 1/927, is the 3rd legislature for the establishment of the Gelipoli historical site presidency. Article 1. In the first sentence of his joke, we propose and propose that the historical field declaration of the historic field be replaced as the "National historical zone" and the "d", "e" and "g" dams will be replaced in the following way. D) The maintenance, protection, fire, disease and the fight against the forests and wildlife in the national historical area is carried out by the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs under Law Number 6831. A special plan for the National History Area to put out fires is implemented. In the National Historical Area, agriculture and animalism, which are subject to private property outside of the first degree archaeological site, is encouraged by the implementation of improved techniques and special deforestations. The implementation of such goals and similar practices under the duties of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism in the National Historical Field provide support and co-operation by the Ministry, mentioned. In these areas, the nature of building and building facilities for the purpose of the use of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism is specified in the historic field plan. đ) The preparation, renovation and modification of plans in all types and scales of the National History Area is run by the presidency and is implemented by the Ministry's approval. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu (Trabzon) and his friends Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0276par0078	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0274par0079	Mr. Canalioğlu of Tripoli.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0277par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to go from the first quarter of the 21st century to 1915 and give you an example of how these wars were won here once again, and I care very much about it as an example for future generations. My dear friends, it's 1915, the days of the red apocalypse in Çanakkale, May. Vefa High French critic Ahmet Rifki enters the school as usual. There's silence in the halls. His first class is in first grade, and he has the same silence in that class. Students bow their heads in front of them, just sitting in their seats. He says hello, Ahmet Rifki, but the kids won't even return the salute. Ahmet Rifki must have been very surprised. One of the people who sits in the back rows stands up, Hocam, our brothers in our neighborhood have volunteered to go to Çanakkale, but you are still here. We want to go, too, but we're underage. Tell us, if our country is lost, what good is the education you provide? There is no way to speak. Of course, the children are right, and at that moment he makes his decision, and he must go to Çanakkale. To fight the enemy for the country, for the right and for the truth. He leaves the classroom with old eyes and petitions the school's administration. He says goodbye to his friends and students. He'll come home. The only living being of Ahmet Rifki is his elderly mother, Ayþe Hanim, and they live together in their homes in the district of the prince. He tells his mother, asks her to give him her due. Then, the local grocery store, a man who saw the day, Salhattin came to the righteous master and said: "Uncle Salattin, I am going to remove the dagger of the enemy, which has been thrust into the heart of the land by God's will. What I'm asking you to do is don't leave my mother alone, and I'll pay you back when I get back. Ahmet Rifki first received a short education in Istanbul and then went to his unit in Çanakkale-Duztepe as company commander. He joins various fronts and trenches wars and becomes a martyr on December 19, 1915. Ahmet Rifki's news of martyrdom soon reaches Istanbul. Her mother hears the news, and though she grieves, her faith is complete, so she will take it with confidence. He thinks of a grocery store where he buys food on credit. He goes to the grocery store and says, "Hello, Master, my son is a martyr in Çanakkale. His martyrdom dog tags, his belongings, and his bonus were delivered to me this morning with a committee. We'll take credit from you for seven months, and we'll pay you back so my son doesn't lie down in debt." he says. He answers: "Ayşe Hanım, you can't read, you can't write, so bring someone who can read, so he can account for it." She went to the shop with Gülşah, the daughter of her neighbor. He opens the "Ahmet Rifki" section and puts his notebook in front of Gülşah. As she examines the notebook, she suddenly starts crying with hiccups. Ms. Ayşe and the other customers at the shop were surprised. They'll come to Gülşah. Gülşah shows them the lines written in red letters in his credit book. It says, "This account is paid with Ahmet Rifki's blood." " Ahmet Rifki sacrificed his life for this land, and we are not afraid to give up a few pieces of goods, " says Mr. Saladdin, who had never spoken. Good luck with that. I hope that the nation will intercede for us." My dear friends, in 1915, our heroic sons who fought against the enemies who occupied our homeland in the Battles of Çanakkale, fought together in unity, regardless of ethnic identity, to save this country from enemy invasion, where hundreds of thousands of our people died for this land. May their souls rest in peace. Now, of course, in this law that's coming, we care about the establishment of the Gallipoli historical site, where the Çanakkale Wars took place, but as our friends say, we also have reservations. We must make sure that this place is passed down to the next generation and meet the people of today and describe and evaluate it accordingly because the Çanakkale Wars are of great importance to all of us. You know this Canakkale Wars, the world has sent very important messages in human history, sending important messages in World War II. It is this: During the war, when both sides are at mutual rest, the Turks offer water to the French and to the other occupational forces, and they offer food supplies, such as biscuits and chocolates. I wish you all the best of the law today to make sure that these wars, which are an important lesson in the history of the world, will never be repeated again, with all due respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0278par0089	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 4 that I read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 4th draft of the 601 row. In Article "... Following the declaration of "graduated from higher education institutions," we propose and propose that it be replaced by a joint decree from those who worked for at least five years in public or private sectors, with sufficient knowledge and experience in historical field management. One for Pervin Buldan Property Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the 4th amendment of Article 1 of the Law Charter on the establishment of the Gelipoli historical field presidency of Chanakkale Wars No. 601 and the 8th joke be added to the following (i.e.) bend. In order to carry out the duties given by this law, the government's legal personality has been established, as well as the Ministry's, and the Çanakkale Wars in central Çanakkale. The capital of the presidency is Eceabat district." "It is the presidential authority to determine the standards of individuals and iconic tourist objects of the region that have cost the area and to be granted permission before they are commercially submitted. The presidency acts jointly with the institutions and organisations involved in this matter. Yusef Halaçoğlu Alim Ilm Ahmet Duran Bulut Özcan Yeniçeri Seyfetttin Yilmaz Lütfu Türkkan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 1/927 main Chanakkale Wars are the 3rd Amendment of Article 4 of Article 4 on the establishment of the Gelipoli Historical Field Chairmanship, the 7th Joke and the 8th Foundation (c) shall be replaced in the following manner, and the 8th Amendment (i.e.) shall be added and proposed. Namik Havutça Kadir Gökmen Öğur Öğün Haluk Eyidoğan (3) The president is appointed by those who have graduated from higher education institutions abroad, which have served for at least four years at the disposal of higher education institutions, including those who have served for at least five years under the command of the General Staff's Military History and Strategic Ethics and Military Museum Command, who have had at least enough professional knowledge and experience in military history, who have had at least five years in the public or private sector. (7) The presidency is authorized to conduct and approve reports on geological, geophysics, geotechnics, marine sciences and other scientific studies and studies in the national historical field. ) To prepare, prepare, and implement plans for the protection and environmental order of all kinds of historical spaces and scales. Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0279par0120	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0280par0121	Motive.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0278par0122	Reason, please. In this article, a specific criteria have been set so that the president can be appointed from persons whose qualifications include the capacity and responsibility of the newly created presidency, including vocational education, knowledge, manners and experience. There is also the possibility that the field guides, which have not been mentioned in any of the provisions of this bill, should be considered under the law. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the 4th amendment of Article 1 of the Law Charter on the establishment of the Gelipoli historical field presidency of Chanakkale Wars No. 601 and the 8th joke be added to the following (i.e.) bend. In order to carry out the duties given by this law, the government's legal personality has been established, as well as the Ministry's, and the Çanakkale Wars in central Çanakkale. The capital of the presidency is Eceabat district." "It is the presidential authority to determine the standards of individuals and iconic tourist objects of the region that have cost the area and to be granted permission before they are commercially submitted. The presidency acts jointly with the institutions and organisations involved in this matter. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Commission, do you agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0281par0135	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0278par0136	Mr. Yeniçeri, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0282par0138	Mr. President, you've seen the motion, and I assume neither the Commission nor the Minister understood the motion. Here's what the motion suggests: let's take this beautiful bill of law to the public, which is materialized with good feelings. Eceabat is a county in the middle of this, where if people own it, it'll be permanent and it'll continue to grow and it'll continue to grow. Let's combine it with the public. On the one hand, we wanted the people to have the opportunity and the condition that Ankara and the locals share. I hope he'll consider it. The AKP people will vote. But first of all, I would like to say that this bill, for once, is really very important -- as I've just expressed -- to discipline the historical imagination. Many may not find it meaningful to retell or rearrange what has happened in the past today, but it has to be known that without history, politics, economics, culture, economics can neither be nor be understood. The basis of today's problems and contrasts Turkey faces comes from history. But we can make sense of the past by understanding it very well. A famous thinker says that nothing is as effective as knowing the past when it comes to men's conduct. People are healthy as long as they keep their memories alive. Memories are the sources of consciousness. Consistent with memories, consciousness is strengthened. There is no real dynamic social presence unless it is connected to all conscious and semi-conscious memories with social origins and gives them the most obvious form. Ortega y Gasset says that nations have no natures, they have dates. If there is no history, if there is no respect for history, if there is a history neglect, there is no people there; there is primitiveness. After highlighting this in particular, what is called "identity" is, as a result, a story that distinguishes itself from others in the historical process of the nations. We'd like to think that this bill presented to the Supreme Assembly stems from such sensitivity to Turkish history. Like Çanakkale, a state-building will, and every step towards the preservation and survival of these places of war, this step is the essential result of historical consciousness. With the bill, people will be conscious of the place they live in, the place consciousness will emerge as a vessel that feeds history. If this bill goes beyond what is intended, and it's dedicated to the work of profit, it's a betrayal of history. And we don't want to think that such a bill was brought up in order to make historical sites a means to an end. The battles of the Gallipoli Peninsula and Çanakkale, mentioned in the Law, are of great importance to Turkish history and Republic history. In a sense, the Battle of Çanakkale and the district mentioned in the law are where the rehearsal of the Battle of Salvation is held. Faith that salvation is possible and the will to establish the state of the Republic of Turkey is fermented in Çanakkale. Any arrangement that contributes to history's consciousness is a contribution to the nation. In fact, we just said that the law was delayed, and we'd like to rephrase it here. However, there is no nation, there is no state in this bill; there is no Çanakkale in this bill; there is Ankara; there is no locality, there is no centre in this bill; there is central management in this bill; there is no government in its place. Here, those who were born with the Battle of Çanakkale and the songs of Çanakkale, who were born and raised on their own soil, had to take advantage of an area that turned that region into an open-air museum, and they had to put their brains, intelligence, and heart into this bill. With this offer, we brought this. I hope you say yes. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0283par0148	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 4th draft of the 601 row. In Article "... Following the declaration of "graduated from higher education institutions," we propose and propose that it be replaced by a joint decree from those who worked for at least five years in public or private sectors, with sufficient knowledge and experience in historical field management. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0284par0156	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0283par0157	Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0285par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on the 4th Amendment. I salute you all again. We, of course, find it understandable that the Bill of Law on the establishment of the Gelipoli Historical Area of the Battles of Canakkale No. 601 was designed to preserve and preserve historical, cultural, spiritual values. However, even when we're being brought here with such an arrangement, when we examine this entire bill of law, I'm afraid we see a strict sense of centrifugalism here again. More often, we see that an understanding that does not allow people to make decisions or control, that does not give local governments initiatives, that centers all these processes on the central ministry, is not true, and that, unfortunately, is being addressed with the same spirit in the bill, as in all the laws that AKP has drawn up so far. We always say that we want to rephrase here that it is not possible for us to take a path in terms of democracy or in terms of governance, without overcoming this rigid central structure, without placing authority from Ankara to the ground, without placing it on the ground. Of course, this 4th article also raises a special concern. In this fourth article, unfortunately, we have a concern that you will also engage in an application of the tenure of public institutions that you have always done according to your own mentality. I'm afraid you're now making arrangements based on certain functions based on the staffing of your party rather than on the criteria of competence and merit. We feel that the criteria for the president who will be elected here are not clear. So we can talk about an arrangement that paves the way for the central ministry's participation in this matter. On the other hand, we have concerns about the transparency of the relationship between this coordination and the presidency. We express that we have not seen clear definitions of how to provide this function. We, of course, support legal regulations on all of our historical assets, on all of these matters. We care about that in terms of the wealth of the Anatolian and Mesopotamian culture and the ancient existence of the history of this land, but unfortunately, as I said, when we look at the practical field, we see an understanding that despite the more people, we read what we know. Today, here, when we look across the region, where we've been chosen -- the example of Hasankeyf is in the middle -- a thousands of years of historical and cultural tissue watering down -- it's a very serious criticism from the public, reactions and objections, but you're always taking it upon yourself, unfortunately. We can also see this clearly in the implementation of HES dams on Fairy Water, which you did on Munzur Water. So, unfortunately, you're approaching, and that's what we're seeing in this bill of law, in a way that allows the public to decide on the preservation of historical and cultural tissue, to take public objections to their own advantage, to view them as an element that can contribute to the criticism there. If you ignore the local governments, if you ignore the people of Çanakkale, if you ignore what the descendants of those who lost their lives in the Battle of Çanakkale think, I know best, I will implement it. If you try to implement a bill within your understanding, we fear that this bill will not reach its goal. Therefore, we would like this bill to come to us after certain partnerships and discussions with all NGOs, democratic mass organizations, local governments there, and if possible, with the public. I hope you'll consider your shortcomings in the legislation you'll bring back from now on. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0286par0166	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two proposals in Article 5 that I will read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Bill 601 in row 5. We offer and offer the purpose and policy of the President to include the declaration of the local authorities after the declaration of the strategic plan. One for Pervin Buldan Property Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the 3rd Amendment of the 5th Amendment (b) be replaced in the following manner, and added to the 5th Amendment (d) to the 5th Amendment (d). Namik Havutçı Haluk Eyidoğan Kadir Gökmen Öğmen Öğüm (b) To establish and follow rules regarding the implementation and adoption of risk management and prevention plans, to do, do, do, and do basic geological, geophysical and geotechnical ethics of the plan, and to submit to the President's approval. (d) To conduct business and operations related to field manuals. Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0287par0187	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0286par0188	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0288par0189	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0286par0190	I'm reading the reason: With the bill, the seating of risk management and prevention plans for the presidency on a more scientific platform, including geologic and geotechnic study, will help to make such plans objectively and scientifically. It has also been established that a unit that deals directly with the work and operations of field guides has been adopted into law. Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0289par0196	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0286par0197	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Bill 601 in row 5. We offer and offer the purpose and policy of the President to include the declaration of the local authorities after the declaration of the strategic plan. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0290par0205	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0291par0206	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0286par0207	Read the reason. The bill was not considered in line with modern public administration understanding and the local government reforms Turkey needs, and the role of local governments has been underestimated. In this regard, local governments should be affected by the relevant mechanisms of field management. For these reasons, the clause must be changed in the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions in Article 6 that I read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 6th Amendment in 601 rows. We propose and propose the addition of the "President of the City Council" to come after the declaration of "Secretary of the Forest and Water Affairs and the Governor of Çanakkale." Pervin Buldan İbrahim Binici for One Property Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We provide and copyright the subsection of Article 6 of the First Amendment on the establishment of the Gelipoli historical site of the Chanakkale Wars 601 in the currently held rows. The Co-ordination Board consists of 15 members, including Prime Ministerial, Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Youth and Sports, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Ministry of National Education, Ministry of National Defence, Undersecretary of the Ministry of Forests and Waterworks, one member of the Turkish Institute's Science Board, a member of the General Staff, Eceabat and Çanakkale Mayors and the Governor of Çanakkale. In meetings without the minister, the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister heads the Co-ordination Council." Yusef Halaçoğlu Alim Ilm Ahmet Duran Bulut Özcan Yeniçeri Seyfetttin Yilmaz Lütfu Türkkan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main battle of Çanakkale, number 1/927, is the 6th legislature for the establishment of the Gelipoli historical site presidency. Article 1. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. The Minister's Co-ordination Board consists of fifteen members, including the Ministry of Prime Ministership, Family and Social Policy, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Youth and Sports, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Ministry of Education, Ministry of National Defence, Ministry of Forestry and Water Ministry, Undersecretary of Agriculture, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, Chairman of Turkish History, the Governor of Canakkale County, the President of the State Assembly of Çanakkale, the Mayor of Çanakkale. In meetings without the minister, the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister heads the Co-ordination Council. Ali Sarıbaş Namik Havutça Haluk Eyidoğan Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0292par0237	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0293par0238	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0286par0239	I'm reading the reason: It is said that the National Office of the Historical Area will promote the agricultural activities of Gazi Villages, while the Ministry of Food Agriculture and Animalism is not considered to be disabled. The board therefore requires representation of the Ministry of Food Agriculture and Animalism. The bill and the establishment of the historic field presidency are considered, and the lack of representation of the Turkish historical institution is a major contrast on this board. It has been thought that it would be more appropriate to represent the ministries and the historical institution on the board of the amendments. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We provide and copyright the subsection of Article 6 of the First Amendment on the establishment of the Gelipoli historical site of the Chanakkale Wars 601 in the currently held rows. The Co-ordination Board consists of 15 members, including Prime Ministerial, Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Youth and Sports, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Ministry of National Education, Ministry of National Defence, Undersecretary of the Ministry of Forests and Waterworks, one member of the Turkish Institute's Science Board, a member of the General Staff, Eceabat and Çanakkale Mayors and the Governor of Çanakkale. In meetings without the minister, the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister heads the Co-ordination Council." Özcan Yeniçeri (Ankara) and his friends Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0294par0249	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0286par0250	Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0295par0251	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, Mr. Secretary, now that you've established the Co-ordination Board, the President himself is not here in the Co-ordination Board. So, you're forming the Gelipoli Historical Field President, the president himself is not on the Co-ordinating Board. Secondly...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0296par0254	Look this way, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0295par0255	Sir?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0296par0256	Let's hear it. We can't hear it.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0295par0257	Okay. It's a beautiful sound. I'm saying that there's a Co-ordination Board, and the president in charge is not on the Co-ordinating Board. I mean, shouldn't this be put in order? On the other hand, if this Co-ordination Board is being formed, surely it will make some decisions in its meetings, and they have been told a while ago when they make decisions, but would it not be appropriate for the head of the Turkish Historical Association or the head of the research institute for the University of Çanakkale on March 18th to be present? And I wonder what the Prime Minister is doing here. Now, what's the Prime Minister doing in the presidency of a minister that's going to coordinate with the minister, there are other ministers, there's an undersecretary? So I believe that this needs to be fixed here. I mean, you rejected ours, what I said. So, if you don't, get it in order. Now, the president of the president who actually runs the business is not on this Co-ordination Board, so what's he gonna do? I mean, how do you create a board like this? I think it's important to consider, that's all I'm saying. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0297par0264	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 6th Amendment in 601 rows. We propose and propose the addition of the "President of the City Council" to come after the declaration of "Desecretary of the Forest and Water Affairs and Governor of Çanakkale" in its Article. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0298par0273	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0297par0274	Reason, please. The bill was not considered in line with modern public administration understanding and Turkey's needs for local government reforms, and the role of local governments has been underestimated. In this regard, local governments should be affected by the relevant mechanisms of field management. For these reasons, the clause must be changed in the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There is a motion in Article 7 that I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main battle of Çanakkale, number 1/927, is the 7th legislature for the establishment of the Gelipoli historical site presidency. We offer and propose that the following joke be added to the article. Ali Sarıbaş Haluk Eyidoğan Namik Havutça ▪ 13) As long as it is possible to provide personnel who will be employed within the presidency, the people who reside in the National Historical Zone will be given priority. Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0299par0291	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0300par0292	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0297par0293	I'm reading the reason: The bill aims to prevent victimization. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion in Article 8 that I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main battle of Çanakkale, number 1/927, is the 8th legislature for the establishment of the Gelipoli historical site presidency. Article 1. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. The construction of all structures in Eceabat and the National History Area, except the villages, is supervised by construction control companies authorized by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. The control of construction and the use of structures in the national historical field is made by the presidency. The procedure and the basis for the audit are determined by the regulation issued by the Ministry. Ali Sarıbaş Haluk Eyidoğan Namik Havutça Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0301par0309	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0302par0310	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0297par0311	I'm reading the reason: This clause is seen to be needed to regulate it by action, since it is the basis of the transfer of the powers issued by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism regarding the Offices of the Agency and Building Control Act No. 4708 to another institution. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter covers the 9 to 15th article, including the temporary article 1. Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut has been asked to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the second chapter. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0303par0322	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Place is important, it's a beautiful city, it's a beautiful subject and it's a very important bill. The Gelipoli Historical Field President of the Çanakkale Wars... I know the area well, and there have been good arrangements in the past. As far as I know from the Minister's actions, they're trying to create a comprehensive programme in order to improve Turkey's image within the framework of the 100th year memorial programs. I think they're doing this in the form of a collaborative office head, in order for things to work out better, for resources to be better evaluated, and I hope, there's no abuse in the law, because I didn't understand that within the law, this place was removed from court control. Someone has to supervise this. Second: In Çanakkale, we need to look at the subject as a region. Çanakkale, of course, is not only Gallipoli, Çanakkale is Turkey's window, its glory. An important city of history and culture with the Bay of Saros, with the Gulf of Çanakkale, with the Gelibolu, with the Gökceada, with the Bozcaada, with Assos, with Neandria. For our recent history, it is the primary duty of a parent, an adult, to take every Turkish citizen by the hand of their child and show what this country costs, what it costs, who it is, who it is, who it is to gain its identity. Of course, when you say Çanakkale, Çanakkale Anafarta hero Mustafa Kemal Ataturk comes. I do not command you to attack the world history of Ataturk, but I command you to die. It is a place where the world's most decorated armies, the most modern armies, the most modern weapons, the ships, the matter is defeated by reason. That faith, that faith, that Chanakkale spirit, it's all about Mustafa Kemal again. What does it say: the distance between the battlements is 8 meters, so death is certain. They all fall as none of the first trenches survives. Those in the second trench, they go to their place like lightning. But do you have any idea how envious and cold-blooded it is? The bomb, shrapnel, sees the person who dies in the rain of lead, knows he's going to die in three minutes, and shows no hesitation at all. No shaking, the readers read the Qur'an and prepare to go to heaven. And those who don't know, they're word for word for word, and they're walking around with an eloquence. It's hot, it's boiling like hell. Each trench versus 20 hostiles collides with a plant bayonet. He's dying, he's killing, and that's an example of the spirit of the Turkish soldier, which has never been in any of the world's soldiers, which is something to be congratulated on. You must be sure that this is the high spirit that wins the battle of Çanakkale. Mr. Secretary, if you can't represent this spirit in this area, if you can't sustain it, whatever you do, it doesn't mean anything. Ahmet Rifleman says: O Çanakkale, if thou art dust, let thy water be watered, Earth, if you're a motherland, that's why. O life, if thou art finished, in the prime of life, Let him know that those who don't smell of the world are the ones who lie there, You're too short, the age of my martyr in Çanakkale, It'll be long, but your Turk's a country boy. O history, there are some who have written you down and others who have written you down, You've been written in the past, you'll still be written. However, what is written in Çanakkale is not written again. As the earth groans at the wedding of the spirits, There's another prayer in there with a single voice. Look at the dough that was made, the flour, the earth, the water, the blood. It was the last country of Ergenekon. Where those who came to wipe it were buried, it was the memory of Turkish and Islam kissing. O Çanakkale, those in your bosom were the ones who told those who made chains of captivity and put it on the nations who were the Turks. he says. That meaning, that meaning, that political propaganda there, is bound to be expressed in the form of the Turk's spiritual qiblah, where we consider it as a national qiblah, where Turkishness and Islam kiss, and the meaning of the cause of those who die there. In Gallipoli, the Turkish flag flies in the Abyssins. From across the beach, across the street, that flag. These concepts, of course, happen with education, with education. Our schools can't teach, unfortunately, and we can't show it that way with education. For the past ten years, AKP governments without educational policy have increased police force by 88 per cent, and the teacher's strength has dropped by 24 per cent. Thus, he has chosen a method of single-handed training. So if you can't embroider the concept of the flag into his heart, then he'll come out and put that flag down, clown. Mehmedchik, who raised the Turkish flag in the trenches despite the bullets he took for that flag, watches only Mehmetçik in Diyarbakır. The commander, the ruler, the politician, everyone, calls him a piece of cloth, and some say, "Don't let the process go to waste." He says, "As it has broken our hearts, the heart of Mr. Nuri in Adıyaman Besni will also weep in his message to me." For it is the flag of Siirt, of Hakari, of Vanlı, of Erzurum, of all of us. If we don't know these values, if we don't appreciate these concepts, if we don't appreciate them, then we'll go down to Mosul, and we'll sit down, and we'll shut up if we can't protect our own identity. When the Germans came from Germany and operated in Iraq and took men from these bandits, we had three Israelis operating against the abduction of their own citizens, and we had a government saying, "Don't make news of the Musul," which even conceals this information from our citizens. If we cannot reveal our own heart, our own trust, our own faith, we will always be a laughing stock. Peace comes with preparation for war. Those who are not ready to shed blood tomorrow can't have peace tomorrow. You'll get your guard up, you'll get pulled over. However, we have crushed Mehmetçik, we have driven the police, we have forced people to retire, we have put them in prisons; we can't do anything; we can't write to the commander, we can't write to the journalists, we can't show the people the truth. Minister, we support your law. Please adjust the flaws in this. Let not one of you, who comes after you, abuse it, pursue personal interests, not Napoleonism. In this sense, I wish the law to be good for our nation, and I say yes, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0304par0348	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Soydan, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0305par0351	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the second chapter of the Bill of Law on the establishment of the Gelibolu Historical Area of the Çanakkale Wars. My respects to all of you. The part of the bill, which is written under the name transparency and accountability, shows us how not to account, how to avoid control. Who's going to answer to the head of the field, who's going to supervise his budget? The presidential budget, which will retain its public corporate personality as a entity for the ministry, will be wired from the general budget, and will be authorized to obtain public revenues using public power. The presidency will be earmarked from the District Special Administration of Çanakkale and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry budgets, even leaving the top limit to the Ministry's authority, with a lower limit of 1 per cent in the share ratios to be transferred. I want 10 per cent, not 1 per cent. If he says, who's going to stop? How will the city of Çanakkale, Çanakkale County Special Administration and Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which have been cut off, provide services to citizens of Çanakkale? The government is charging the people of Çanakkale with the authority to cut without limiting the local government's budget. The people of Çanakkale and their local executives do not want to contribute to a budget they have no say in, no authority or control. Members of parliament, at the same time, the government is smuggling the account of the budget passed and used by the bill from the Turkish Grand National Assembly for national will. What the government is doing is openly attacking the control authority of the national will, ignoring the control authority of the national will. Why do you feel the need to smuggle expenditures out of the control of the Turkish Grand National Assembly? Abductors of the Court's reports from the Turkish Grand National Assembly are demanding an unsupervised spending authority today. Those who believe they're doing the right thing, those who don't get the right to a slave, have to tell the people of Çanakkale then our nation why they're running away from transparent, independent control mechanisms. Congressmans, the foreign policy chaos we are in these days, the war on our borders shows us that the meaning and importance of the Battle of Çanakkale, a hundred years ago, cannot be understood at home and in the world, but it turns out that the AKP government, which says it wants to express its spirit better at home and in the world, has failed to understand the Chanakkale spirit, even a hundred years later. While the AKP is trying to dominate polarisation politics and hostile approach to the other country, those who first set out with neighbouring countries began to drown in their own problems, becoming troubled with all neighbours. The wars of sectarian wars in the Middle East and neighbouring countries have been sided and domestic affairs have begun to be interfered with in the neighbouring countries. When no country opened the consulate in Mosul, the consulate was opened, but our officers and flags were not protected. The group, which has taken our citizens hostage and described as the world's terrorist organization, is exhibiting a complete lack of insight, not even the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister can call it a terrorist organization. The AKP government, which did not understand the spirit of independence, freedom and peace a hundred years ago, must now learn from what happened today. Mr. Secretary, the understanding of peaceful universal values should be dominated, rather than spiritual and unequivocal values, which have failed to understand Islamic warrior-maneuver rhetoric. Today, the Middle East and our neighbors shed blood in the name of spiritual values. Mr. Minister, we will send a message of peace every year. He says, "We will send a message of peace every year." But the founder of the republic, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, leader of the National Liberation War, can't say that we will not allow peace and peace to be delivered from the peace park in Çanakkale. A hundred years ago, there was one of the bloodiest wars in the world on the historic peninsula. Mustafa Kemal, who lit the torch of freedom and independence on the land of his country, watered by the blood of 500,000 people, announced to the world the principle of peace and peace in the country, one of the principles of the state of the Republic of Turkey. Instead of war in our country and in the world, it is possible for peace and reconciliation to prevail instead of conflict, and only if Ataturk is brought to life by peace in the world, the principle of peace in the world. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you a story that happened at the time. A dressing place has been established in the village of Kocadere. All the wounded are coming there. Our soldiers who have been injured everywhere are coming there, being treated, and the commander is taking care of every incoming soldier. A soldier comes and says, "Sir, I borrowed one from my friend Halil. I couldn't see him in this turmoil. In this war, in this noise, I couldn't see him and give him this debt. If I am a martyr, tell me what will happen if you see me. He says, "Let your rights be lawful." He says, "He has a heavy wound. Abraham is a martyr." Again, many wounded come, and a wounded man comes, my lord. He calls out, and his commander runs, and he says, 'Here you are, my son.' He says, 'Here you are.' I am from Beybaş of Lapseki, and I lent my friend Abraham to one Mejidi before the war. I believe my friend called me at the battlefield, but in all this noise, he couldn't find me and pay me back. Please tell him I give him my blessing. He says, "He is a martyr." Of course the commander cries. Dear friends, please be loyal to the spirit of our fallen soldiers in auditing the budget. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0306par0365	Thank you. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions in Article 9. I'll have them read and processed in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main Chanakkale Wars, number 1/927, which are being discussed, are the establishment of the Gelipoli historical site president.9. Article 1. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Ali Sarıbaş Fatma Nur Serker Haluk Eyidoğan Namik Havutça Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi The presidency is obliged to inform the public on time in order to ensure control and transparency in the access and use of its financial resources. To this end, measures on drafting the budget, implementing and implementing the annual working programme and the public and accessible report are taken by the presidency. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 9th draft of the 601 row. We submit and propose that the following joke be added to the article. ▪ The presidency submits reports to the Co-ordination Board with the drafting, implementation and implementation results of the budget twice a year, at least twice a year. Pervin Buldan İbrahim Binici for One Property Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0307par0386	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0306par0387	Read the reason. In order to increase the accountability of the field management presidency, the information required must be shared regularly with the Co-ordination Board. Therefore, the clause must be changed in the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main Chanakkale Wars (1/927) that are being discussed are the 9. Article 1. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. The presidency is obliged to inform the public on time in order to ensure control and transparency in the access and use of its financial resources. To this end, measures on drafting the budget, implementing and implementing the annual working programme and the public and accessible report are taken by the presidency. Ali Sarıbaş (Chanakkale) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0308par0400	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0306par0401	Read the reason. It is intended to ensure transparency. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In Article 10 there are three motions, which I read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th draft of the current 601 row. Article 2. We propose and propose that the joke be changed in the following way. (c) Çanakkale County Special Administration, Çanakkale Municipality and Çanakkale Chamber of Commerce and Industry will be divided by at least one per cent of the fixed budget revenues for the next year, Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special İsmail Kashdemir Mehmet Danish Fatih Şahin Ilyas Şal Ali Aydınlıoğlu Bkent Turan Mehmet Şükrü Erdinç Ramazan Bell Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main battle of Çanakkale, number 1/927, is the 10th legislature for the establishment of the Gelipoli historical site presidency. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Çanakkale County Special Administration, Çanakkale Municipality and Çanakkale Chamber of Commerce and Industry will be divided by one per cent of its net budget. Ali Sarıbaş Muharrem İlm Ali Haydar Proposes Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th draft of the 601 row. Since it must be reorganised in the residency commission, we propose and propose that it be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İbrahim Binici for One Property Commission, do you agree? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0309par0434	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0306par0435	I'm reading the reason: In the bill, the head of the Field Administration "uses and fulfills the powers and duties vested in him in law and other legislation as responsible for the Minister." It's called. In the same way, the presidential budget is in effect with the Minister's approval. Although local governments are not authorized in the decision-making mechanisms of the presidency, the bill legalises a split of at least one per cent of the budgets of the Çanakkale County Special Administration, Çanakkale Municipality and the Çanakkale Chamber of Commerce and Industry. In many bills, the government is on its way to reducing its limited budgets even further without authorising local governments under the scope of this policylessness. By renegotiating the draft text fellowship commission, either the presidency must be held accountable to the relevant Local Governments or the regulation for the division of the local administrations from the budget must be changed. For these reasons, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main battle of Çanakkale, number 1/927, is the 10th legislature for the establishment of the Gelipoli historical site presidency. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Çanakkale County Special Administration, Çanakkale Municipality and Çanakkale Chamber of Commerce and Industry will be divided by one per cent of its net budget. Ali Sarıbaş (Chanakkale) and his friends Do you agree with the commission? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0310par0451	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0306par0452	Mr. Yellowhead, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0311par0454	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, I'd like to first correct a speech from our Ismet Flying Congressman. There's a look right there. For once, we thank all of the government, all of the government, all of the government, all of the state officials, all of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, all of them, from the battles in the Gallipoli Peninsula until today. However, the procedure is not true, I'm reading exactly the same from the report: from the years before 1970 to the years after the Çanakkale Wars, the historical parks where our soldiers were were never traveled for any time, meaning forbidden. That's not very true. You need to know something before you do. In all of Turkey, including myself, not all the people in primary school, 5th and 4th grade, had field manuals that day, and we were all visiting it, including the military zone in the Republic of Turkey, before 1970, by history teachers. This has to be fixed. It's not right to doodle. So, I want to fix this pollution of information, so let's not be unfair. It's not right to doodle. If there is, you can tell your target directly. But if there's a problem with the army, if we want to say it there, let's open it up a little bit. There, the General Staff has personally made arrangements for many villages, including the village of Biga, today. The law, which was passed in 1973, was in the same law as it was that day forty-one years ago, and the laws in 2000 have been passed so far, and are now making new arrangements. So the Ministry of Culture, Forestry and Defence ministries, the General Staff all invested there before 1970, and the same aid from the people had helped with the money collected there, but it's not right to invest in one era in just 12 years. I especially want to teach you this. I'd like to make a correction here, especially to the Minister. You described the word "Millei" beautifully, and you tried to stress it, but why don't you put the word "Milli" at the head of the bill? What are you afraid of? This just doesn't match our values, our judgment. So we can't afford to have these national values that share our national feelings here. We can't just look at it as peace, you say. But you can't put the word "allill" in the bill of the ministry you brought in. But the answer to this bill, as you tried to destroy the Republic of Turkey's TC, its national values, everything that was national, is to eliminate the word.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0312par0456	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0311par0457	Yeah, yeah, he said it himself, I didn't say it.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0312par0458	There's a nationality in the spirit of this law.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0311par0459	My friend, if you read it... take a look at all the motions from now on. You didn't listen to the speakers here either. You've only been raising your fingers since evening. I also made sure you didn't listen to all the opposition talk here.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0312par0460	We're listening.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0311par0461	I mean, your national spirit was so good for him, but why are you removing the word "national" from the bill? There were national parks. Why are you removing the word "Millei" from Mr. Secretary? Then you'll have to answer that. You're saying that we don't accept that the word in exchange for peace is sitting here. As a result... I'm making another correction, Mr. Secretary. We'll call here after this at international ceremonies. Until now, you've called for international ceremonies in Çanakkale on March 18th, and the governments in previous celebrations. Why are we even trying to make puns like that? I'm just saying this because I feel like I need to fix it. Let's get down to brass tacks. I'm trying to tell you something... about your foot in the local government right now. Here's the thing that needs to be corrected: If you want to get a cut of real income, you have to cut in on real income. It's the right thing to do. So the less you say here, the less you put in there, the less you put in there. I'd like to say that in particular. And you're also going to say that we don't want to introduce localism, and you're forced to put it on the subcommittee, and now you're willing to take money from here. It's a contradiction. For him, there is no law that can be passed without local feet, without participation, without control. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0313par0466	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. MIRCLE EDUCATION, CULTOR, TEENAGE AND SPOR COMMISSION ACCENT (ISTANBUR) President... So you want to talk about teasing? I want to make a statement, not a taunt. Then, here you go, two minutes. Now, don't spoil this nice, gentle, gentle, calm, warm atmosphere. Mr. President, thank you very much. My fellow lawmakers, I salute you with love. Dear friends, our dear speaker spoke with great excitement about the pollution of information. Now, Çanakkale is a language of mercy, a language of forgiveness. So it's the segment that represents all communities. Everyone will respect each other's segments. So, there's no information pollution here. If you look at some historical artifacts from 1924, 1936, 1960, 1970, 1992, I'll give you one.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0314par0478	I read it in the report. If you take a look at this piece called "Education, Culture, Youth and SPOR COMMISSION" (Secondly) You've made it clear that if you look at it, you'll understand it in thousands... People couldn't travel, you say. I've been around, my friend. Yes, it was actually declared military territory in the 70s and until the 1970s... I mean, come on, don't do this. Don't be like that. Sir, if you'll excuse me. And what was the second thing, dear friends? Until the AK PARTY governments, Çanakkale was not considered in accordance with the historical fabric of this nation. No one has done anything. We have not said anything, and I repeat my opinion. Dear friends, let's not forget Montrö, Mondros and Lausanne can't be understood without being read. And I'd like to say this, finally, dear friends: Now, in 1936, the British and the Anzac actually offered to celebrate the Chanakkale Martyr and they came and sampled it. And I don't think we should have bought it from anyone else until then. With that dignity, there were many monuments in 1992, you know. On May 25, 1992, our last monument of martyrdom was opened, and I hope it will continue to be done. I thank you all so much for these thoughts and feelings. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0315par0487	Thank you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, I'm having the other motion read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 10th draft of the current 601 row. Article 2. We propose and propose that the joke be changed in the following way. (c) Çanakkale County Special Administration Çanakkale Municipality and Çanakkale Chamber of Commerce and Industry will be divided by at least one per cent of the established budget revenues the previous year," he said. Mehmet Danash (Chanakkale) and his friends Do you agree with the commission? We're giving it to you, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0316par0498	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0315par0499	I'm reading the reason: Reason: This motion has been made to clarify the application. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the clause to your votes within the agreed motion framework: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 11 that I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 11th draft of the 601 row. Article 6. We offer and propose that the joke be changed; In matters relating to restoration of positions and trenches under Article 4 of this Law (b) there are no permits in Law No. 6831, from the extremes of the trench to 20 meters [20 m]. Pervin Buldan İbrahim Binici for One Property Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main battle of Çanakkale, number 1/927, is the 11th legislature for the establishment of the Gelipoli historical site presidency. Article 4 and 5. We offer and propose that his joke be removed from the Bill text. Ali Sarıbaş Haluk Eyidoğan Mustafa Serdar Soydan Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0317par0520	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0315par0521	Mr. Yellowhead, are you going to speak? Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Flying's got the paper, the pen.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0318par0525	Yeah, I'm reading it exactly from the transcript.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0315par0526	I'm not saying anything; come in, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0318par0527	I mean, if I'd said that to him without getting these transcripts, maybe I would have believed it; I'm correcting it. Let me find out first... that it is forbidden to remain a military zone until the 1970s... to visit the people and to visit the people. Are you aware of the bones of the farmers who plowed the fields outside the military area in those years, dear friends, of the martyrs who were crushed under the feet of oxen? Look, it's very clear. It was a military area before 1970, where people couldn't get in, and you say it here. You said it, I didn't. I'm a person who visited there in 1968, 1967, 1966, who experienced these feelings at the time, and took the first shot of Ataturk's love, and the commanders were given information by the teachers of history by holding people in the command area at the time -- and then there were no guides. So please -- so I didn't say that -- you have your reports -- you don't have to ignore a period. I repeat: all the way up there in Turkey and all the world, and it's become peace and peace and warring in all kinds of etnisities, including the same aid that people everywhere in Turkey have been given to evaluate every penny here, you've just said it, and I want to come there, and you'll fix it. You're the ones who made the difference in old martyrdoms, by making, by renovating, by making your former ministries. I didn't want to go in there, but I'm going in because you opened it. So far -- I just said that in my speech -- I want to thank every department, every private agency. A common value is ours, the national values of Turkey. It was bad for him before the 1970s... so, wait a minute... what have you been doing for 12 years? Why haven't you passed this law in 12 years? You've waited 12 years, Mr. Secretary, why? Eight months to go, you didn't build the 2015 agent, eight months to the 100th year. Why did you wait so long? Why did he wait for a hard-working, high-paying AKP government, a high-profile AKP government, Mr. Minister? My dear friends, let's come to the point that in no country in the world, there has never been such a government that allows the integrity of a budget and its budget to be broken down piece by piece. So we can't talk about the plan and budget integrity, exempt, tax-free, free of revenues in municipal law, exempt from contract law number 4734. Hey, guys, please, even the mayor's contracting leather, bidding on the skins he collects. What era do we live in? Why are you poor poor people here without the government's money... how are you going to answer to people? Is that an understanding? How can you be exempt from 2886, where I want to rent shops, where I want to give souvenirs? Where do you get the right to rent a rent in Turkey between the lips of two people, between the lips of a president? So can you show me a corporate personality that's exempt from everything, including private organizations around the world? My dear friends, as financially for him, the culture, the Coastal Law, the zoning laws, are exempt from all of them. Well, here you go, rant, farm, everything's fair. Is that an understanding? How are you going to control us in the state's own organs called auditing?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0319par0530	How much is being invested in this Çanakkale, Mr. Ali? I'm telling you, it's a great investment in Çanakkale.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0320par0531	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0321par0532	Congratulations, Mr. Ali. Let's hear it. Say thank you and let's hear it!
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0322par0533	You've done nothing but sleep tonight, so you're only starting to feel sleepy. Dear friends, I repeat for him: come, don't run from control in this country. I would like to remind you that even the understanding of the budget that brings the Court reports here in this country continues within this law, that you will escape the audit by tearing up the budget, and that you will not be able to answer to the public in that sense, and thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0323par0536	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 11th draft of the 601 row. Article 6. We offer and propose that his joke be changed as follows: " (6) In matters of restoration of positions and trenches under Article 8 (b) of this Law, permissions are not sought from Law 6831 to 20 metres [20 m] from the extremes of the trench. " Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0324par0546	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit07spe0323par0547	I'm reading the reason: The draft text does not limit the area covered by work related to restoration of positions and trenches. Law number 6831 is responsible for protecting the forests. The provisions of Law 6831 cannot be ignored until the clear boundaries are set in this regard. For these reasons, the clause must be changed in the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, I'll take a short break, but I'll tell you something: I'm actually a history teacher, and there's a lot of historians, but now, the teachers are here. So he's probably the expert on history, Mr. Halaçoglu. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0323par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 105th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 601. The Commission and the Government are here. There are three motions in Article 12 that I read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 1st joke of the 12th article of the Law Charter on the establishment of the Gelipoli historical field presidency of Chanakkale Wars No. 601, which is in session, should be replaced by the four-mile [5 km] sign passed on me. Özcan Yeniçeri Ahmet Duran Bulut Seyfettin Yilmaz Alim Işim Yusuf Halaçoğlu Lütfü Türkkan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 12th draft of the 601 row. Article 1. We propose that the joke (a) be changed as follows; ▪ Nighttime in places where the convention is prohibited, drinking alcohol in places where alcohol consumption is prohibited Pervin Buldan İbrahim Binici for One Property Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main battle of Çanakkale, number 1/927, is the 12th legislature for the establishment of the Gelipoli historical site presidency. Article 1. We propose and propose that the joke be changed in the following way. ==History==It is forbidden to burn memory or similar vegetation within the area limits or within four kilometers of these borders. Ali Sarıbaş Haluk Eyidoğan Fatma Nur Serter Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0325par0030	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0326par0031	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0323par0032	I'm reading the reason: It has been deemed appropriate for the matter to be changed in this way. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who do not... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 12th draft of the 601 row. Article 1. We propose and propose that the joke be changed in the following way; "Nighttime in places where hosting is prohibited, drinking alcohol in places where alcohol consumption is prohibited." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Commission, do you agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0327par0044	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0323par0045	Reason, please. When laws are made, freedoms are not limited, freedoms are set. In this regard, the language of the Bendin language in the Charter is a hurtful language. For these reasons, the clause must be changed in the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and copyright the "four kilometers" of Article 12 of the Article 12 of the Law Charter on the establishment of the Gelipoli historical field presidency of Chanakkale Wars No. 601 to be replaced as "five kilometers." Özcan Yeniçeri (Ankara) and his friends Now, Mr. Kabbat is also signed, so I'm asking: is the commission participant? We're giving it to you, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0328par0057	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0323par0058	Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0329par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I was going to say they won't accept any of our motions. So, they accepted a motion. I can't say that word, thank you. Dear lawmakers, now, this field manual issue is a really important issue and there are a significant number of field manuals. Of course, I don't have the full knowledge of their qualifications, but I think it's important at least to keep them in line for a certain period of time after this law comes out, and maybe to keep them employed in a way that they can properly carry out their duties. Because there's going to be a huge gap. I'm thinking maybe there's a benefit in taking part in a seminar and continuing their work. Because there's no substance here that's relevant and there's going to be a huge gap. A second issue, valued lawmakers, Mr. Secretary, is now, in fact, constantly said: Çanakkale is a peace representative and a place of peace. Now, for God's sake, how can you say peace in a place where there is the world's greatest war, where more or less 500,000 people have lost their lives? You call it peace in a region where there are still pieces of lead in its head, where the bullets collide with each other -- can you imagine, how you collide a bullet in that area -- where hundreds of bullets collided with each other. The man came from 10,000 kilometres away from New Zealand, and came after him as Anzak, and came as Gurka, from Australia. And from so far away, from 10,000 kilometers away, they probably didn't come for peace, and we still describe it as a peace zone with some ideas such as the universal, to be pleasing to mankind. That's out of the question. The men officially came, tried to seize our honor, tried to take Istanbul, tried to silence the oppressor. Is it still possible to describe it as peace when there are so many martyrs who have shielded their chests against them? When I first went to -- 1968 -- believe me, I couldn't get out of the vehicle for half an hour, I couldn't step on the ground because there was martyr blood on every inch of his land. How can I call this a peace zone? On the contrary, we have to tell it correctly, so don't think that if we twist it historically, the consequences will be good. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk says that writing history is as important as writing. If we do not tell history correctly, how can we expect them to be sensitive to our young, our children, tomorrow in Çanakkale? In other words, I would like to suggest that the Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of National Education can do this: Every Turkish teenager who finishes high school must see Çanakkale, who has finished high school in Turkey, must surely see Bursa, he must see Istanbul. Think of it this way: A young man and a young man in Edirne will have common denominators to tell each other while studying at the same university in Ankara. Here, one of the most important steps in maintaining unity and unity is taken. So it's probably an element that we're going to put together as our common values, and I think, as far as it's concerned, it's going to be made much more beautiful, and there's going to be some sort of landing factor on the shores. Therefore, I would certainly like to stress that it is important that outside of some NGOs, outside the municipalities, the National Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Culture will take over directly, and that every young person who finishes high school will surely be able to see Çanakkale -- other places I count, including Ankara. Again, I wish this law to be good luck and good luck because I won't be able to speak after this. In the meantime, I'm saying that I had a conversation here yesterday about Engin Alan Pasha. It may be a coincidence, but the AYM has made a decision on the retrial of the defendants and prisoners in the Sledgehammer case, and tomorrow the case is sent to Istanbul. Hopefully, we'll get a chance to see him among us on Tuesday, and together, there'll be an environment where no lawmakers are in prison. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0330par0069	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 13 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main battle of Çanakkale, number 1/927, is the 13th legislature on the establishment of the Gelipoli historical site presidency. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Ali Sarıbaş Namik Havutça Fatma Nur Serker Haluk Eyidoğan The references to the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs in other legislation regarding the duties assigned to the presidency in this Law are referred to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and to the Office of the Historical National Park of Gallipolis. Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0331par0081	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0330par0082	Mr. Yellowhead, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0332par0084	Very valuable MPs, for some reason, we're used to making laws and talking at this hour. We can't talk on TV at all. We're trying to make a law after closing with our friends. It's easy for him and for him to say things in peace, as long as he sleeps. Very valuable MPs, I'm just here on a matter of Mr. Minister... all of our MPs living in our district have a fight, including all our political friends and local governments. It's a fight-fighting guide fight. I mean, because there's -- there's tourism guidance -- there's a real problem here. Now, with this law, all the friends there are asking, is this in the text of the law? I mean, of course, the document was taken here, it was trained with its documents, and it's really about this field guidance... because there come a visitor that's been expressed every year with numbers of 2.5 million. He oversees this field guidance and tourist guides, among them, a disturbance of authority. I've actually made a commitment to say that there are technical errors in the application -- being edited here. Mr. Secretary, there's an arrangement here, and there's no law we're going to make tonight. But -- you'll see -- most of all -- whatever we do to the facilities there -- is trained here -- by the way -- he's actually got documents, and I'd like to ask the question of field manuals here, especially among those trained in Tourism, or especially those who are trained in that. Will the documents taken by these field manuals be valid from now on, or will they not, according to the current law, be employed by the Ministry of Tourism guides?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0333par0088	The Ministry of Forestry...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0332par0089	The guides from the Ministry of the Forest grew up there, and they took documents from there -- I'm telling you -- they took the field guidance from there. Will the rights of these be valid? Because, I mean, there's a serious loss of rights here, and that's what's being asked. Again, we have the Tourism Guidance Association there, they established it, and they have problems with it, and together with the Ministry of Tourism, the partner has been authorized to oversee them, and there's been a friction about it. The friction here is disturbing the people who go there in the national park. I mean, when a visitor gets there, where he'll apply, how he'll get the right information, how he'll travel? We have to repay this question from here, we have to avoid this contradiction. There's a question mark on people's minds in case I go to this field manual, and if I go to this tourist guide, there's a question mark like this, and you have to take that question mark out of people's memory. It's supposed to be accurate, it's supposed to be trained, and it's not really part of the bill. They're all wondering that question. So once again, the answer to your question has to be clear here. Of course, I think the field guides' documents around here should have acquish rights. But, can they be retrained or not, I'm not in charge and I'm not an educator. However, I do know that there is a real need to be an arrangement about this, because wherever it comes from Turkey and the world, there is chaos there. We also live as a complaint mechanism or as people living there, especially all of our deputies in Çanakkale. That's one of the things that all the people there are complaining about the most. This arrangement must be made here, and our friends must guard the rights there when they make arrangements. At the same time, since you're not part of this law, how are you going to fill this gap after you get out here? I think we need to ask you what you need to do to fill in this gap. I guess I won't be giving speeches anymore. For him, I wish this bill to be a blessing. I hereby wish my dear friend the deepest of good evenings... to sleep and to drink coffee after nine. May the bill of law be good for all Turkey.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0334par0096	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on the temporary article 1. I'm going to read it and process it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to the Interim Article 1, titled "Transgression Sentences" on the Establishment of the Gelipoli Historical Area of Çanakkale Wars No. 1/927. ==Early life==As of the date of this law release, those who have been assigned to the presidency, or those who have already signed contracts on the use of these subsidiaries under any name, and those who do not have a date on their contract by the end date specified in their agreements, will end automatically without further processing until 31.12.2014, and they will not be evacuated by Article 75 of Law 2886. Ali Sarıbaş Fatma Nur Serker Haluk Eyidoğan Does the commission agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0335par0110	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0334par0111	Motive?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0336par0112	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0334par0113	Reason, please. With this clause operating within the framework of the contract law, this amendment is seen as necessary to ensure a transition period to real or corporate personalities, which may result in unexpected losses with this law. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the interim article 1 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion in Article 14 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 14th draft of the 601 row. We propose and propose that the declaration of "date" in the article be changed into "from date to date." Pervin Buldan İbrahim Binici for One Property Commission, do you agree? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0337par0128	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0334par0129	Reason, please. With this change, the text of the law is intended to be more understandable. Therefore, the clause must be changed in the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion in Article 15 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 15th draft of the 601 row. We propose and propose that the provisions of the law shall be changed by the Council of Ministers, which shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers. One for Pervin Buldan Property Erol Dora Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0338par0144	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0334par0145	Reason, please. With this change, the text of the law is intended to be more understandable. Therefore, the clause must be changed in the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. To show the color of the game in favour, Mr. Mehmet Danish of Çanakkale. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0339par0154	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I salute you all with my sincerest feelings. Indeed, for about seven hours we have been working on the bill for the Battle of Çanakkale, the Gallipoli historical site. We're talking about Çanakkale, we're talking about 1915, we're talking about us, we're talking about the Turkish nation, we're talking about unity, we're talking about us. When it comes to Çanakkale, we're talking about a concept where all the elements of the Turkish nation live with the same emotion, the same excitement, 1915. In terms of the fact that Çanakkale is our history, Çanakkale is the presumption of our Republic, when we think that we have 253,000 martyrs, we have 131 different soldiers from the 131 different military branches, and this is a group of young people from all 24 countries from that day's Ottoman geography. Look, in Çanakkale, in the area previously run as a national park, our Ministry of Forests, our National Parks General Directorate, has had some serious work. In fact, from 2003 to today, there has been an area where three ministers have been constantly employed, where a deputy prime minister or a state minister has been co-ordinator, where studies have been conducted. It was because of the difficulties in coordination. I, the Minister of the Forest, thank you first for all the service they've done to Mr. Secretary of the Forest and his highly valued employees. Again, Mr. Steel, I really want to thank Mr. Secretary for bringing us today a bill that will solve the problems we've been having over the years. Actually, a lot of things have been discussed. Çanakkale is now an area where many martyrdoms have been neglected by 2003, infrastructure problems have been solved, monuments have been raised. But the main problem here is that the area is the management problem, which is the feeling that the area is being told to our young people, the Turkish youth, and the feeling that 1915 Çanakkale can be moved to the next generation. I think we need to talk about field guidance, field management, the field presidency, starting here. Yes, in Çanakkale, we lost 253,000 young people in 1915, but as long as there is a land in the Republic of Turkey, the spirit of Çanakkale will continue to live as our flag flies, the youth of Çanakkale, and we must transfer that feeling to new generations, to our youth. As Mr. Halaçoglu put it, it has been discussed since 2003, and steps have been taken. Before we finish middle school, all our children, all our young men, must walk through the martyrdoms of Çanakkale. And in 2003, a campaign supported by 10,000 young people, Tursab, has now reached 2.5 million. Turkey's different... Not only in Turkey, but even from outside the Misakimillii, it is an area in which 2.5 million people of our youth travel, travel, and re-unification is strengthened every year. So today, with the support of our friends from the opposition party, with the contributions, with the motions accepted here today, with the contributions, I really think we're doing a very important work on how this area can be managed, more coordinated, and the spirit of Çanakkale can be transferred to future generations. I'd like to thank everyone who contributed to this work, you, our esteemed congressman friends, your Minister and your valued employees, your bureaucrats, in your presence. This law wishes this law to bring blessings to future generations, youth, unity and unity, and to all our martyrs and all our martyrs. I wish you all a good evening, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0340par0163	The negotiations of the bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote, and I'm going to make a decision by the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The bill of law on the establishment of the Gallipoli historical field presidency of the Çanakkale Wars is a clear vote: The bill has been adopted and legalized. Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0341par0171	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I thank all those who have supported this bill with their criticism, their support, and their contribution to it, and I thank the High Council. I'm going to tell you about an anecdote so that I can read it as a Minister of Culture, and I'm going to present it to the memory of the Grand Assembly, because I think it's remarkable for this Parliament, which bears the title of Gazi Parliament. Not from our land, but from another geography, how to look at Çanakkale, an anecdote about it. Muhammad Iqbal, the national poet of Pakistan, wakes up one morning, comes to the great Lahore Square and gives a speech to his people. Poet Nedvi Abul Hassan describes that speech: "There was a serious meeting in a square in Lahor. There were too many people to count. The excitement was at its last. Tripoli was occupied, and after Tripoli, Çanakkale would be next. The people of Lahore took them out of their homes to the top of their clothes. When they gave it, they said, "Let the Ottomans come to the rescue of Mehmetchik. They were loading it and sending it away in wagons. The speech box was set up. The nazars showed up on one side, obviously with great scholars and poets. That human came with the air of suffering for an entire nation, twisted. He stood on the stand, he spoke very eloquently, he impressed people; he described the virtues of helping Ottomans, Muslims, and he told the hundreds of thousands in the field of Iqbal Lahore: I had passed away from this world. The angels brought me before the Lord Muhammad (AS) of the mercy verse. The Lord said: "O nightingale of the garden of Jerusalem! The roses warmed with the fire of your words. Your heart is filled with wine of love, prostration and prayer. When you fly from below you and from the earth to the heavens, the angels reveal to you the secret of greatness. You came out of the garden and you came at me like a nice smell. Tell me, what gift have you brought me? They have commanded me. I said, "Sir, there is no peace and quiet in the world, and the life of the heart is not taken. There are thousands of roses and thousands of tulips in the garden of wealth, but they're disloyal, they leave us, they leave us, they leave us, they smell. Sir, I brought you something instead, a bottle of blood like no other in heaven. This is the honor, honor, conscience of your nation. This is the blood of his soldiers who were martyrs in Tripoli, Çanakkale. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-18sit08spe0342par0177	[[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] Thank you. We begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which are ranked fourth in the Union of Non-Nationals. There's no commission, it's postponed. Congressmans, it is clear that the commission will no longer be found. According to the decision taken, it is Thursday, June 19, 2014, at 14 p.m., to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
