tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 108th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Ill - Y O L A M A We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Şanlıurfa MP Zeynep Karahan Küllü, who asked for a statement on International Drug Use and Anti-Trafficking Day. Here you go, Mr. Nice Guy.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the June 26th World Drug Use and Trafficking Day, announced by the United Nations to improve international cooperation in the fight against the greatest threat to humanity today and tomorrow's drugs. Drug use and addiction is an international problem that poisons social tissue as well as the damage it does to its users, which interferes with social development, and when we assess it on our country's scale, the European Union monitors it at a lower level than it does to countries or to many countries, but it is clear that over the years it tends to increase in every part of the social layer, as a result of developing communication methods, it has been delivered to its users via the Internet, causing major traumas through cross-border distribution networks, causing major threats to our common future. The United Nations data shows that drug use is constantly prone to increase year after year. It is estimated that 230,000 people die each year due to the use of substances, and the volume of drug trafficking is estimated to be around $600 billion. Two hundred and thirty operations in cooperation with 36 different countries should be noted from 2002-2014, when our country has a highly active and powerful attitude towards fighting this problem. Studies have yielded results, our country's position as a transit country in the context of these forms of crime has been greatly altered, criminal organisations have now had to look for new routes. It is also stated in its own reports by the United Nations Office of Drugs and Crime that our country alone captures heroin is more than the sum of member states in the European Union. In this context, another aspect of drug trafficking is that terrorist organisations are life-sources and that our country's fight on this issue contributes significantly to the fight against terrorism. Between 2002-2014, 180,402 incidents were intervened and 358,342 suspects were arrested -- if we talk over the past five years -- with 48% increase in operations against drug traffickers and 55 per cent in the number of suspects detained. It is also worth the development of our legislation for drug use and sale through changes made last week in the legal Turkish Penal Code. However, it is clear that this issue cannot be resolved only by legal or combat approach. It is critical to increase public awareness, to ensure awareness that will lower the demand level, to develop and promote treatment and protection opportunities. At this point, with the initiative of the EC PARTI governments to raise a conscious generation and to maintain public health, Turkey's Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction was created, and for the first time in the republic's history, it was possible for all public institutions to contribute to issues through a holistic approach, with the creation of the National Policy and Strategy Document in the fight against Dependence. In this direction, many projects, such as the Smile Faces project, which I represent, have been implemented in the fight against the issue, and hundreds of thousands of citizens in our different provinces have been tried to strengthen school, family, social sensitivity. The importance of public spotlights, as well as activities such as printing and distribution of sensitive books, as well as the number of treatment centers -- currently being given health care via 21 centers -- should also be noted as a parliamentary contribution by the Commission on Drugs Addictation and Trafficking. In addition to all these studies, I express the importance of actively contributing to the fight, especially with the high sensitivity of NGOs and your families, including Greenbear, to the great House, with the belief that our futures will be stronger.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0003par0020	Thank you, Mr. Goody. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Şırnak MP Selma Irmak, who wants to talk about sick prisoners. Here you go, Mr. River. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Balıkesir MP Namik Havutça, who wants to talk about Balıkir's problems. Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0004par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised to bring to the attention the problems of the workers of Susurluk, who have lost their jobs, their vaccines, their bread, and their misery, who have been left out of work. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, look, after taking office today in Susurluk, the city of Susurluk, 76 of our fellow workers were sentenced to hunger, poverty, poverty because they refused ununion, subcontracted labor. They act every day in front of the City of Susurity. The only crime of these brothers and sisters is to demand their union rights and their human rights to live in a human way. These workers didn't do what they were given? No. Did they disobey orders? No. Are these people out of business discipline or are they out of business? No. But today, just because the AKP's municipality has separated them somehow, they've lost their bread, their vaccine, their families' children's hunger. Look, I'm telling you from here, valued lawmakers: After the 30 March elections, the municipality went from CHP to AKP (AKP) and began to pressure 127 workers working in the municipality as soon as the mayor was elected. Since these people did not vote for the AKP, they offered them: "You will either be transferred to the subcontractor that I asked for or you will be unemployed. " Look, valuable lawmakers, the mayor lays off 76 people on the one hand and employs 150 people on the subcontractor. Look who these people are: Melek Güler has been working in the municipality for four and a half years; Feyza Chickencuoglu has been working in the municipality for four years; his twin babies have just started walking; Sultan Yıldız has had one son in the municipality for four years; Cemil Dalkıran has worked in the municipality for five years; Turan Özdemir has one child; he has been working in the municipality for four and a half years; he has two children. These are people. Look, my dear lawmakers, my dear friends, after the disaster in Soma. After the death of 301 of our citizens, we came to mind the rights of workers. There's twelve years of AKP power; what did we want, what did you reject? See what we refused: we offered law for the right of collective contract of our teachers, our officers; we offered law so that our teachers, our officers, our officers, would do free politics; you refused, we refused, so that we wouldn't be taxed for minimum wage; and we offered law so that we wouldn't be taxed; and you refused, in order that our employees might get 200 lira more; and we refused, in order that our employees, our officers, our teachers, our officers, our officers, our officers, would have free politics; we refused the law; we refused the law so that we could remove the system; we refused the law; we offered you, you refused the final work, and you refused 30 years of research; and you refused a collective contract. We are currently fighting a huge battle to remove our public-owned brothers' jobs, their vaccines in human terms, but every time you look at these proposals from the CHP... you've never had any proposal from this Parliament to create human conditions for the workers, the peasants, the pensioners, the tradesmen in your ten years of power. I speak to my fellow workers, pensioners, brothers and sisters who have acted in front of the municipality for 12 years: no law of AKP power has been passed here in favour of workers, officers, pensioners, peasants. Look, we offer them, the Tabheron system is a system of slavery. Only workers working in the AKP's subcontractor system have increased by five floors. It's all in a work order now, in hunger, in poverty. However, Article 4 of the Justice and Development Party Charter is defined as essential to the social state principle. So, leaving workers out of work, starving them, what part of the social government does it fit, what part of the concept of justice? So, we say from here that it's very important for our country to make business peace. I invite the ruling committees of the Justice and Development Party to reunite the bread of our fellow workers who have been laid off in Susurlik City.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0005par0037	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to go into the system, and I'm going to give the MPs a minute of my word. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0006par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday at Thukya Luleburgaz, on the sixth day of their strike, I visited the Boscam workers. 5,800 botticam workers, organized by the Crystal Business Union, are on strike in 10 factories. In particular, they are on strike with a request to improve the minimum wage of about 3,500 young workers and raise average wages of $940 and also provide job guarantees, after a considerable search for compromise. Botsamam, as you know, the Business Bank plays for partnership and the third place in the world; the company, which is a big winner, keeps an important place in the economy, its profits, its turnovers, its safes are very swollen, but when it comes to increasing labor fees, it resorts to unregistered lies and numbers, which are unacceptable. The botticam workers are extremely heavy under heavy and dangerous conditions at 60 degrees Celsius... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They want the media to hear their voices and the House to consider them. I've been promised to say that. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0007par0047	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0008par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Mediterranean District of Mersin is the largest central district of our province. 75 in this county. The year was Anadolu Teacher's High School, closed like any other teacher's high school. This school was expected to be a science high school, both the school board and the National Education Directorate 75. The year suggested that the Anadolu Teacher's High School become a science school. Because this school has an entire 20,000 square feet of campus. Plus, he's got a boarding house with 140 girls, 100 boys. Plus, he's got 20 apartments for teachers. It's got a mess hall for 400 people. He also has all kinds of labs, workshops, gyms, and 6,000 bookshops, libraries; he is top in many areas throughout Turkey. This school, which is expected to be a science high school, unfortunately, has been transformed into an anadole high school and has had a huge reaction from all of Mersin. I want the Ministry of National Education to handle this matter and correct it immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0009par0052	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0010par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. In particular, as subcontractor work is the problem of the entire country, our Adana province is a province with the most unemployed in unemployment. When these unemployed are able to work in subcontractors, they face the challenge: They are completely left at the initiative of contractors -- unfortunately there -- go there today, tomorrow, they have been facing a problem they haven't been paid for three months, for four months. I think there should be a solution to this, which could cause social outbursts in the future. Again, our province of Adana, you know, was deeply affected by this drought and the frost. Our farmers' troubles at this point have come to an end. Although the government, the Minister of Agriculture, in particular, has stated that certain measures have been taken, unfortunately, the situation within our farmers is pathetic. I expect the government to take care of our farmers in this fertile land, which is the center of agriculture. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0011par0058	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0012par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. An investigation has been launched into the total of 77 people, including eight physicians who participated in the action on May 14th, and four children, to protest the mine massacre of 301 people lost their lives. Doctors are always on the side of the public in their joys and demands of democratic rights and lives, except for the public's health demands. Do physicians also have to get special permission to fulfill that responsibility? Dr. Hasan Ozan Kurt was attacked by a patient at Kırşehir Ahi Evran University Education and Research Hospital Emergency Service. When will serious, protective, and deterrent measures be taken, not for display of physical and verbal violence to the physician? The Ministry of Health is not taking precautions, and it continues to pressure employees.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0013par0063	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0014par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Electricity is constantly cut in the district of Şanlıurfa. The Minister is here. Our citizens have suffered a great deal because of watering troops in Şanlıurfa. In fact, because of the choice of watering troops in Şanlıurfa, people are being kidnapped and the problems of manslaughter are on the agenda. There's a real problem with that. Again, unemployment in Şanlıurfa is very high and very high. Because of the migration from Syria, the problems created by the refugees there have brought real destruction to both the native and cultural and economic. There's a big parking problem downtown, and the Urban City City Municipality is firing the subcontractors who work there, and the Urbans are a victim of that. The roads of the villages of Şanlıurfa have not been paved, and in the summer the dust and so forth, they are victims. For these reasons, I would like to ask that Mr. Ministry take care of these issues regarding the victimization of Urbana, with respect to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0015par0071	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0016par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. The negative results of your persistent 4+4+4 law, despite major objections to the community last year, have come to light. EDUCATION says that in the 9th and 10th grade, school dropouts are accelerating, even though 80 per cent of those who have finished primary school have moved to the middle. The number of students who have not continued has found 175 thousand. Although middle education became mandatory, the number of students at the open school increased to 804,000 in the 2012-2013 school year and 901,000 in the 2013-2014 school year, becoming a major problem. Looks like the training's still going on. In addition, Yeşil Bahar Elementary has joined the latest Imam halibut chain in Kadıköy. The Kadiköyers have a great objection here. He wants this re-evaluated by the Ministry of National Education, the Kadiköyans. In this sense, they say that if you need a new Imam orator, any area in the region can be made an imam orator. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0017par0078	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0018par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. June 26th, World Drug Use and Trafficking Day. In this context, the number of beds associated with AMATEM will have to be increased quickly in our country to address this problem, which is a major problem throughout the world with substance abuse. Therefore, I would like to say that I expect sensitivity from the authorities in this matter. Again, I saw workers, especially members of the Crystal-Work Union, on strike this weekend in Mersin. The workers in this factory don't want much -- job security, raising their minimum wage, and the term "strength and dangerous" workforce they're working on in the 60-degree heat. Again, although the entire infrastructure of the anadole teacher's high school is complete in Mersin, for some reason the Ministry of National Education has efforts to shut down the school and turn it into anadole high school. There's something seriously wrong with Mersin in the education world. They also want the Ministry of National Education to show sensitivity and assess the demand for the school to continue the same way or to be converted into a science school. For your information. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0019par0086	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0020par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. We want to remember from this place one more time, the fierce child of the Black Sea, of Laz, the Kazim Sheepman, whom we lost at an early age. Indeed, by his music, by his posture, this beautiful person, who we lost at an early age, said: "The systems collapse, but the songs last forever in the hearts of the people. We respect you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0021par0094	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0022par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Crystal Business Union is on strike in Turkey. In Mersin, thousands of workers join the strike and support it. There's only one thing these workers want, and they want what they deserve. Therefore, as Congress, we must all support the return of the wages of the workers, seeing this as a business above political parties. If we do so, there will be a common path, and Turkey will be paid in some way for its sweat, for its labor, and we will all be relieved of it. I salute from here all my friends on strike, bow to their righteous and honorable resistance. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0023par0100	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. And finally, Mr. Ögüt...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0024par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to point out that we're with members of the Crystal-Business Union working in Turkey's 100-flow botticam factory. I think the bottleglass should be there for them in this deal. I also think that the 93-cent ridiculous demand for a raise should be withdrawn immediately. Because the workers are boycotting them with something big, and they're putting them in the bank where there's 93 cents, and we don't need that. We want to make a minimum living, we want to live with our children honorably. They say. I salute Crystal-Business members, their workers from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0025par0106	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and present them to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Together with Macedonian Parliament Speaker Trajko Veljanoski and Danish Parliament Speaker Mogens Lykketoft, visiting our country with a delegation of Parliaments has been approved by the 19/6/2014 date of the Grand Assembly of Turkey's Presidential Court and Decision 73. The visits of the delegations to our country are submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, number 3620. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation of members of the Commission, headed by Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission, Oya Eronat, was adopted during the General Assembly's 96th Conference on the June 3, 2014, in Zagreb, hosted by the Croatian Parliament Tourism Commission. The names of the political party groups, dated 28/3/1990 and announced by the General Assembly to form a delegation under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 3620, are submitted to the information. [[Diyarbakır]] [[Dull]] [[Elizipt]] [[İstanbul]] D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation. I'll have the motions read separately. The motion will be read because the motion for Parliament research, which I will read in the second place, is more than 500 words, but the full text of the motion will be included in the Journal of Tutorak. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, we provide the necessary for the opening of Parliamental Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Code, in order to establish reports on the basis of human rights, in order to establish laws based on the basis of this violence, to investigate the legal, political and social reasons for the spread of police violence, to investigate the legal, political and social causes of this violence, and to establish laws based on human rights. [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] The incident of Baran Tursun, who was killed with a police bullet on his way home in 2007, brought police violence to the attention again. This incident has allowed police violence to be questioned once again at its level in Turkey. In June 2007, a change in the Law on Police Missions and Legislatures increased after the police were given broad discretion over the use of deadly force and encouraged by the use of arbitrary pauses, search practices. With the increase of these powers, the recent media image showed that a person in Fatih was beaten to death by police in front of his family, not only in police stations, but also in universities. The fact that the current laws and police have very broad powers and that police have the right to commit crimes and that they have the right to authorise them has led to the spread of police violence in all areas. According to human right-wing organisations, the number of people killed by police in the next two years, especially after the amendment in 2007, has increased and found 64 people. In the first five months of 2012 alone, four suspected deaths occurred in custody. 52 people were subjected to torture and abuse by the police, while 173 were victims. According to data from the Turkish Human Rights Association, a total of 2,353 people were taken into custody in 2012 due to the law on meeting and demonstration march, while 569 people were arrested. According to the Human Rights Organization's report, in 2011, 57 people were killed without trial and 130 were injured, 16 civilians were killed without trial in the border areas, 36 were killed in custody. Police and military suicides, suspicious deaths have found 74 people. Experts say that behind increased police violence and the aggressive behavior of law enforcement is the lack of supervision, the protection of law enforcement officers, and the lack of punishment. Since many who have witnessed police violence have not testified against police officers, serious protection measures must be imposed on police violence witnesses. Unfortunately, during the legal process, the authorities can only be suspended or are often sent away to serve elsewhere. In cases that do not reflect on the media, nothing is done to prevent police violence. Police violence is increasing in all areas of life, not as citizens of the existing laws, but as the state and state protects the security force and gives the police unlimited authority. This approach, in the concept of security, sees every citizen as a potential criminal and is able to violate the most basic and untouchable right of life without thinking about it. This dimension is a major injury to Turkey's human rights report card and democracy. The police's powers must be narrowed down, their jurisdictions are determined by clear statements, and the law must be enforced according to the universal principles of human rights, based on the citizens. In this context, it is clear that the state does not have serious police violence data and information, and it does not focus on this issue. In Turkey, we propose a parliamentary research commission to prepare reports for the development of statistical information on the point of police violence, to investigate legal, political, social reasons for the spread of police violence, to investigate laws that have caused this violence to increase, and to establish laws based on citizens. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly [[x]] In order to determine and resolve the problems of the Mehellems, one of the peoples living in Turkey, I demand the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104, 105 of the 98th and Interior Law. 22/06/2012 1) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] It is one of the most authentic communities around Batman, Mardin, Şırnak, Siirt and Midyat. About 800,000 Mıhellemi are known to live in Turkey. A historical link between the Mehellemis and the Akkadians, who lived in the region three thousand years ago, is established by language similarities. It is said that 3 million Mühellemi live worldwide. Although most of them are Muslims, they are also known to have different religions. The Muslims of the Mechellemis, a dialect of Arabic, feel as if they are part of the Arab people. Like other peoples from different ethnities, there are many victims. Education rights in the native language are not recognised, nor are they prevented from naming their children in their native language. The village they lived in also found that the names of settlements such as Mehra were changed without consulting them. There are many restrictions on language in the public area, and the bans on languages outside of Turkish also victimize them. Cultural and ethnic assimilation put their cultural assets under serious threat. The discrimination that has befallen mellelemis in many areas of life has caused difficulties in expressing their identity, especially in the younger generation. Sociologically, it is necessary for this public to deal with the situation that has led to a significant negative outcome in its structure, both for the domination of social tolerance and for the internalisation of democracy. Another problem is the number of relatives who have found 100,000 and who do not live in Turkey. The majority of Turkish refugees originally live in Syria, Iraq and Lebanon, and are not granted the right to citizenship in these countries. These people have not been granted citizenship by the Republic of Turkey, who have lived without a country or identity for years. Turkey must make financial and legal arrangements to resolve the problem of the Mehellemis in this situation and ensure their return to Turkey by granting citizenship. The presence of physicians is hardly known except for the people of the geography in which they live, and there is no way for them to identify their culture. There are serious obstacles to their organization. There has been no improvement in their current situation because of the so-called democratisation moves that the government has proposed as "results of power." Apart from the number of problems, another problem is property. In particular, problems stemming from property and cadastro laws in the eastern and southeast region have affected the Mühellems significantly. It has been taken from the citizens by the descriptions of people who inherited many vineyards, gardens, fields, wrongfully treasured goods, mera, and common goods from their ancestors before the establishment of the Republic of Turkey. Today's treasures are being sold to the wealthy and land mafia in the relevant settlements, leading to unjust practices. This unfair exchange of hands of lands that they believe to be historically their own is a cause of rightful unrest in humans. As these practices lead to criminal cases that may lead to murder, they strengthen the phenomenon of victimhood in the already difficult conditions. The Religion Languages and International Dialogue Association, the only organisation founded in Turkey to promote, protect, and develop their own identity, language and culture, is to be shut down by exposure to various pressures. Mühellemis want to use visual newspapers, magazines, radio, television and other media communications tools written in Müchellemi, to protect and develop their own identity and culture, to eliminate these pressures on the associations first. In relation to the property problem, they expect the government to have the rights restored to its rightful owners and their relatives living in exile as soon as possible, as soon as possible, by reviewing and regulation of the land and cadastro, and by correcting the wrong practices that could have caused the conflicts. I propose and propose the establishment of a parliamentary research commission to ensure that our citizens living abroad can return to their home homes in order to avoid a conflict that could result in further land disputes to be fully identified and resolved. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our 37-year-old citizen Kadir Sevim died in the centre of our country's capital, in the most strategic location (front of the Air Force Command, opposite the Chief of Staff) and in the most busy part of the capital, as he walked along the Inönu Boulevard, under the sidewalk, as the subway work collapsed. This has raised serious questions about the credibility of Ankara subway construction in Ankara. This is not an option for various vocational organisations who have applied to investigate the cause of the accident. If the cause of the accident is because of the "excessively unfinished subway construction" of Ankara subway lines, "excessive risk due to the long process of being released," the evaluation study, or no, if it was due to the new start-up work, it has become vital to be detected. This process is a process where technical measures for the future, regardless of the legal process that began due to the accident, will begin independent of it. In this context, we demand and demand that Parliamental research be opened under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and Turkish National Assembly's Institution, in order to determine and determine the current problems of Ankara Metro constructions and measures that need to be taken. [[Army]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Manisa]] [[40s.]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Edirne]] [[Scholarship]] 10) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Antalya]] [[Slap]] 14) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] [[Sinop]] [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Veli Ağbaba [[Malatya]] Each of the lines of Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, Westville-Sincan, Kızılay-Tayyı and Tandoğan-Keçiören were tendered with specific tender prices and specific deadlines, each of which had a spectacular foundation. However, even a stop on these lines has not been opened or opened for years. However, the subway has been the most important ingredient in every election commitment. The work of Ankara subway lines, which became history-changing subway construction in Ankara, was shut down in 2005, abandoned to its fate until December 2011, and transferred to the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications. In each of these lines, our people's money has been spent and eventually Ankara Metropolitan Municipality has transferred the subway construction to the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, which they cannot finish. Has the financial resources and budgets of the unfinished subway lines been tendered? If so, then shouldn't it have been that the contract was not submitted under the law? It raises questions. As a result of the long wait, our Ankara citizens have been victims, and it is clear that they will now be victims for another two years. The failure to complete subway line work has resulted in construction of subway stations, tunnels, and hemiszem roads that are unusable before they can be used. In the subway construction process, the findings made by the Chamber of Civil Engineers showed that the iron used to build the railway grids and roads were molded, and the walls of the tunnel routes were cracked. However, because of this situation and the loss of our citizens, the Metropolitan Municipality is not taking responsibility in any way. In addition, the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications, which has taken over my construction of the subway, has observed the Metropolitan City Municipality, which has so far failed to oversee and take preventive measures. As is not known where the budget is being spent on the subway, such matters are likely to get away with it. It is evident that continuing with its logic will undermine the trust of our citizens in state institutions and municipalities. As the long-destined construction of subway construction moves to the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications, the risk assessment of long-term release process raises questions. The results of the rapid but unresolved work may result in irreparable consequences. For these reasons, it would be possible to establish a parliamentary research commission under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and Turkish Council of the National Assembly, in order to determine and determine the current problems of Ankara subway construction and measures that need to be taken. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday 25/06/2014 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. İstanbul MP Osman Kuruturk and his friends proposed a general meeting on the occupation of the Islamic terrorist organisation of Mosul, Iraq, and related developments on 18/06/2014 to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (13 rows no. lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations Wednesday (25/06/2014), and to be held in the same dated combination of their talks. In favour of the proposal, Istanbul MP Osman Taney Korkurk... Here you are, Mr. Korutk.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0026par0312	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear friends, today we're discussing a request for a Turkish Grand National Assembly meeting to discuss what Turkey can do in the face of a situation facing Iraqi Turkmen in the occupation of ISIS and the full expansion of Iraq. I find it very remarkable that such important national matters, such great national issues, have been discussed, and the council halls are almost empty. If I were to count here, it would take 10 people from the Justice and Development Party. But we're talking about very important things.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0027par0315	12 people.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0028par0316	How many people are here?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0029par0317	How many people are in the CHP Group?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0030par0318	When you compare our group with your group, you'll see that we're three times as large as you are. Now, what I'm thinking is, anyway, the point is, instead of us talking about this in Congress, would it be better if we held a press conference and explained it at the press conference? Because we see that the House is insensitive to these issues, to the Turkmen. Look, about the Turkmen, yesterday President of the Iraqi Turkmen Front Ershad Salihi and the delegation came to Ankara. Mr. Foreign Minister has accepted this delegation in Ankara. When we follow the conversation between the minister and the delegation, you see that it's all about advice: "If you do this, it'll be good, if you do this, it'll be bad, don't be sectarian, don't divide between you. There was no sectarianism among the Iraqi Turks. I'm a friend of yours who's worked very hard on Iraq. Iraqi Turkmen have always maintained Turkmen identity, and sectarian differences in Turkmen's identity have never turned Iraqi Turkmen against each other. It is so high that after the Iraqi Shii Türkmen, who were forced to vote with Shiite votes because of Velayati Faqih, later entered parliament, they tried to maintain their Turkmen identity there with Sunni Turkmen, who came from Turkmen's front and other parties in parliament. What is Turkishman's identity? The Turkmen identity is one of the natural elements of Iraq, one of the natural layers of the Iraqi people. In Iraq, the Arabs and Kurds have as much right as the Turkmen have. But the Iraqi Turkmen never get their rights the way they want them, and today they have to flee from their own places. The speech has been emptied, the Tuzhurmatu has been emptied, the Tazehurmatou is not clear what it is, the Turkmen are in very difficult situations in Diyala, etc. The government also advises each other in their talks: "Be good with each other, do not make a difference between sects, do this here, do this here. What needs to be done is this, not this, but practical measures. The government needs to go directly into it, and once it's involved, it needs to be able to get it back from the Iraqi Central government, then from the administration of other regions with relatively much prosperity and stability, while co-ordinating from the Kurdistan Regional Administration, to arrange an exit for the Turks, to arrange it, and then to get the Turkmens back to their place. If the assembly were to open, if it weren't so crowded as the members of the group object so much, perhaps the Justice and Development Party would have taken and carried out this plan, and therefore we would have never adopted the plan that we had planned. It's a matter of the country, it's a matter of the Turkmen, we must take this matter together. Let's not do it, you do it, but let's discuss it inside the House. Now, fellas, look, I'll tell you what needs to be done, matter of fact. If you're interested, I think you should be interested. Among the urgent measures the government must take now, the Iraqi government should be invited to fulfil its responsibilities as central government against Turkishmen fighting to survive. The government of the Republic of Turkey must be involved in attempts to make this a common call for the international community. The government must make it clear that it has the will and the will to take necessary preventive and deterring measures against interference against the inhuman and preemptive action of the Turkmen and to implement them in co-ordination with the international community and to make a statement on that path. This statement should include the element Turkey is ready for bilateral and international co-operation in order to launch a humanitarian aid operation that will meet safe and humanitarian conditions for the Turkmen. In order to ensure the safety of the Turks, humanitarian assistance, and the basis for the necessary humanitarian support action needed to be delivered, Turkey must lead the United Nations Security Council's decision, making initial initiatives to make such a decision. In this context, mechanisms for aiding Iraq, which would also enable co-operation with the Kurdistan Regional Management, in order to qualify Iraq as a joint Iraqi operation, should be developed and the Iraqi Central Administration should be applied to these cooperative mechanisms, to be persuaded to cooperate with these mechanisms. At the same time, within the knowledge of the Iraqi Centre Management, the Kurdistan Regional Administration should be directed to fight with the developments that threaten Iraq's territorial and political integrity, along with the political and measures that it will co-operate with central administration. As I have just said, the Turkish people's drama is close to our borders in the same amount of time as they have been proposed, before the drama deepens, and as I said earlier, in the region of Zaho, which is more stable and has access to transportation, humanitarian aid camps should be planned in co-operation with the Kurdistan Regional Management of Kurdistan, and must be established in security in these areas, leaving Tuzhurmata, from Diyala, from other places, and from these areas, where they can't go home temporarily. Turkey should also explain that it can offer logistical resources to the use of an international aid operation and provide the necessary conveniences to ensure that international aid supplies are delivered safely to the necessary delivery centres. In addition to humanitarian aid initiatives, a military preparation must not be ignored to prevent and deter possible attacks on Turkmen's areas, particularly Telafer. In the event of the escalation of the conflict within Iraq, it is also necessary to ensure that only a human movement of Turkmen can expand in diameter and prevent human tragedies for other groups at the next stage, as well as the United Nations and international bodies and subsidiaries running humanitarian operations from the start and provide support. As a result, dear friends, the United Nations must be able to contribute and support from the start, since the scale of a humanitarian support campaign for Turkmens can only be expanded and prevent human tragedies for other groups at the next stage, in case the conflict environment rises within Iraq. Now, we're ready to discuss all of this in the context of a more thorough plan. Perhaps the government won't like the expression of guidance in all these matters, but we're prepared to share our knowledge and experience with the government. I have done my duty to advise the Turks, to give useful advice to the Turks, to do this, to do so. In this framework, which we have quickly said, we invite the United Nations, the United Nations' humanitarian aid organizations, the Iraqi Central Government, the Kurdistan Regional Government, the Turkmen Front and other Turkishmen organizations and all Turkishmen elements to quickly merge with the possibilities of Turkey, and to launch an operation that was pre-empted by Turkey. To discuss such an operation, we recommend and recommend that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey open a general discussion on this matter without delay. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0031par0329	Thank you, Mr. Korutuk. Against Amassian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0032par0333	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, I'd like to thank CHP for this motion. Because it's important to have a wide discussion of the social and political problems that Turkey has been living outside, around nearby, a participating debate, some negotiations, and policies that will be fed on are carried out in practice. Turkey is a country with a sociocultural continuity of its environment. Everyone has formed national states, but the social and political reality of the past doesn't match these borders of the nation's states, and the ghost of the past is on these countries and the future. As a matter of fact, the impact of today's crisis in Iraq, the crisis in Syria, the effects of Turkey's policy on Turkey, and the effects of Turkey's policies here, are the result of the continuity that has crossed those borders in the past. Our approach is how such sociocultural continuities can be used in a way that can benefit everyone. But if you can't do that, these elements that will benefit you can also become a cost-effective form. I'd like to point out that the government has a very careful policy on this matter. The post-Saddam crisis in Iraq raised a serious security concern for everyone there. There is concern about security at the heart of the discussions today on various symbols or ideological narratives. In one region, when people feel insecure in a geography, they begin to be armed, to create their current political acquistors based on violence, to engage in a relentless struggle to protect their existence, to see their own destiny as necessary. So I say this for this reason: There is usually a reading in the Middle East about blood, violence, death issues, which is associated with Islam, with the underdevelopedness of the people in the region, which I say is very unfair. For many years, in Lebanon, in Iraq, in Syria, we see that they are primarily displaying harshness, violence, and violence, similar to people of many different cultures and beliefs. The Jews have acted the same way because of this lack of confidence in the region. As a matter of fact, if we look at the attitude and policies of the State of Israel, there are numerous examples that can confirm that. Christian organizations have acted the same way. In various versions of Islam, the organisation in various forms of segments also acted in this way. I say this for this reason: One is how important social insecurity there is instead of sending cultural references to the region to read progress correctly, and if we're going to oppose violence and persecution, first of all -- I don't just mean Turkey -- I mean the world's public -- if we want peace, there's a policy that only needs to take social security measures. Otherwise, it would not be possible to develop such policies by following a thought that dates back to ancient Greece, with prejudice and Islam, violence and underdevelopedness, and violence and already these Middle Eastern peoples. In Turkey, the AK PARTI government is a Central Truth reality, and the position of power is here, essentially, in order to ensure general security in the region and to ensure that all kinds of elements exist there exist in safety. Recently, an organization called ISIS has emerged. In fact, people who know closely that his story goes back. After that, a series of incidents took place in the central Iraq area. We know that behind this is the impact of the engagement policies carried out by Maliki (Maliki) that he sends messages to the environments he wants to recline in. As a matter of fact, these wrong policies have led to the life of a tough and warrior ISIS organization, which is supported by Sunni Islam in central Iraq.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0033par0339	Do you support it?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0032par0340	We, in no way, support any violence, the result of violence, inevitably, in no way the persecution. Those who follow closely know that this organization, ISIS, is a member of the Selephim school of Islam, and they know the history of such organizations, which are essentially based on the predecessors of this geography, and they also know the reading of Ibn Teymiya. They also have an idea of the address where they are fed politically.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0033par0342	And you're supporting the selephants.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0032par0343	Thus, it is impossible to establish such a connection with Turkey, both as an ideological map of Turkey's belief, as well as as Turkey's policy for the Middle East.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0033par0344	It's not impossible, your policy in Syria and Iraq is in accordance with the will of the Selafi organization.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0032par0345	Turkey is a state with a line on violence and terrorism in all Middle Eastern geography, and that is the approach of the EC PARTI. Here, from Nusayri to Christians, from the Jews to the Muslims, the EC PARTY acts with a mind that knows that only if there is peace and peace for all, there will be peace for all.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0033par0346	You're calling Nusayri a Muslim, you're discriminated against, Mr. Bostanci. You're separatizing by saying "Christian," "Muslim" to Nusayri.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0032par0347	The Turkmen are in trouble there today. The armed hegemony, supported by the social communities of ISIS, also raises a number of humanitarian crises in Telafer.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0034par0348	Does Turkey support it?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0032par0349	I would like to point out that in the interest of the European Union, we share the issue of the Turkmen there in the form of bilateral relations, as well as other options for humanitarian aid and security, both our government, our Prime Minister, and the State Department, as well as the precious minister who was just speaking, are part of the diplomatic mechanism that was mentioned at one time. Of course, the priority is humanitarian aid, and we know that AFAD has been authorized and that AFAD has sent a variety of helps there. From the beginning, I also have a list of the benefits sent by AFAD: 40,750 food boxes, 10,000 blankets, 1,920 beds, 2,000 kitchen sets, 12,000 tents, 218 boxes of medicine...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0035par0350	When did you send it, Mr. Bostanci, when? After ISIS invaded Mosul?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0032par0351	We send these help, but here's our approach, dear friends...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0036par0352	What about the ones you sent to ISIS?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0032par0353	You know Edward Said.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0037par0354	He's not going to Turkmene, he's going to Iraq, he's not going to Turkmene!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0032par0355	If you express your suffering in a universal context, only then will you become the property of everyone and represent a moral and conscientious line, they say. And we feel the pain of the Turkmen there, that we're Turkmen, that we're Turks...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0038par0356	I can't talk, I can't talk! It's better with words!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0032par0357	...before such a nationality is a fact, but before that, we see it as a drama in the bosom of humanity, which is a response to humanity, and we call social mobilization, the world's public, to this framework. So we are interested in a will that suffers in that region along with the suffering of the Turkmen, trying to cast a shadow on every innocent, oppressed head that was born of the warm sun of the Middle East.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0039par0358	What did you do with the hostages that were captured at our own consulate? Tell me how the hostages are doing!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0032par0359	I hope this approach is...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0040par0360	I hope he doesn't have it in him.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0032par0361	...to ensure peace and peace in the Middle East, the support of the entire world's community, the states there, and the help.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0041par0362	The government's up to its neck in Middle Eastern blood, and it's a plague!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0040par0363	People are dying in there, dying!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0032par0364	Our line, along with the suffering of the Turkmen, is to carry all sorts of pain into that universal human bond.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0041par0366	You support terrorists!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0042par0367	The grief of the hostage consuls...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0032par0368	I'm sure the universal acquisitor behind the CHP, who submitted this motion, will confirm this policy's accuracy. I see this truth from the shouting. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0043par0371	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. On the other hand, Iğdır MP Sinan Okan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0044par0375	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, while Mosul was being talked about, Mr. Koruturk also expressed -- unfortunately, there is no such thing as Mosul in the House. This morning, at the meeting of the Foreign Commission, where I was a member of, with Mr. Korutrk, and other friends, we had an application: we are not the Military Agriculture Commission; we are the Foreign Commission; we have seen that Turkish soil has been invaded, Turkish flag has been taken down, our diplomats, our police, our citizens are being held hostage, inform the Foreign Commission, which, if not at all, is the occupational commission. As we have not received any response to our demands today, we have found that the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission's initiatives have failed, and we have said: "When our hostages are still in the hands of our territory, while our territory is still in the hands of the Turkish Republic" -- we don't know what we't have been able to negotiate with any other countries. You didn't carry out the matter with the General Assembly, but we said you had to inform the Foreign Affairs Commission, which is the residency commission, and we left the meeting room, and we still have the same request. We will not allow the Foreign Commission to become a puppet commission. If Mr. Davutoglu has a face, he has to come and inform the Foreign Affairs Commission. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] Therefore, the subject of Mosul is not a cover-up. Of course, in our area, the lives of our citizens are at stake, of course we will pay attention, of course we will carry out our responsibility as all lawmakers in this matter, but this cannot put aside the responsibility of Mr. Foreign Minister. Oh, well, our hostages are in there, and we're not going to tell them about it; our hostages are in their hands, the Turkmen are in their hands; our hostages are in their hands; let's let them play horses where they want. It's not what the great state would do, it's not what the weak state of the Republic of Turkey would do, but we won't allow the Turkish nation to be shown in this way. Of course, information can be given, general issues can be discussed, maybe we're misexplaining some things, it's the job of Mr. Secretary of State to inform the House of State and the deputy of the nation. Maybe we have some sensitivity, considering we don't have the information the government has, he needs to brief us on that, but he doesn't. You don't care about Congress, you don't care about the opposition, you don't care about the people, you don't care about the Turkmen, you don't care about the Turkmen, who cares? He cares about ISIS. It's ISIS they're after. We've been talking about this a couple of times here in the House, but unfortunately, we've been talking about it, and we're sorry to say that you didn't make any effort. Yesterday, Münir Kafili, member of the Iraqi Turkmen Front Board of Directors, was assassinated and unfortunately martyred. Another Turkmen businessman has been martyred. The Turks are being expelled from their homes, the Turks are starving, thirsty, out there, at the mercy of the hepmerge; on the other hand, the Turkmen's intellectuals, politicians are being shot, and unfortunately the Turkmen are crying: aren't we standing behind each other?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0045par0381	There's no one standing behind them, there's people shooting.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0044par0382	So I ask you, why don't you stand next to Turkmen? As you stand next to the Pesmerge, as you stand next to the opposition in Syria, can't you stand with Turkmen, half as much as he does? Is it their fault they're Turkish? We're talking to the Turkmen, and they say we can't even send students anymore, and I'm ashamed to say that we have to go in there and sign up because we're Arab. It's bad enough for the president and your power. Dear friends, I ask for God's mercy on our Turkmen martyrs here. I expect the same condolences from the Prime Minister. We've all shed tears for Esma, but you, come, burn as much as Mursi, and at least offer your condolences to the Turkmen martyrs, but no, you don't care about Turkmen. My precious teacher speaks as if he were giving a lecture at the university. You're the MP of the ruling party, Precious Hodja, you won't give a lecture here, you'll support Turkmen, but you won't, I'm afraid, where is it! At last some help has begun, but the assistance that is being distributed is being distributed under the control of the angermer, distributed to the spots he wants, and where he wants it, the Turkmen are able to take very little advantage. In this regard, Turkey must immediately take the initiative there and monitor the right addresses of the assistance sent to the local power owners -- without leaving the control to the owners there alone. Turkey has never been so miserable in that region. Even Turkey can't provide help in that region, and our Turkmen brothers are very troubled about it. We can't say a lot of things. Right, we have hostages out there, we don't share a lot of things that would endanger their lives, we don't share them, but it's probably not the kind of thing that would jeopardize the lives of our hostages. Turkey can handle that help, Turkey can afford it, it has the capacity. Among our martyrs in Çanakkale are many Turkmen born in Kerkuk. In this country, if we live independently today, we live at the expense of our Turkmen brothers, at the cost of their blood on the land of this country. We have to pay our brotherly debts now, dear friends. Iraq is being divided and Iraq is almost certain to be divided into three parts in a loose federation, but the government is pressuring our Turkmen brothers, saying: "Move with Barzani, along with the hepmerge, and give up your own national presence. In Kerkuk, Iran and so Talabani's party is active. Barzani's party is active down there. Divided country. There's a force behind everyone, but not a power behind Turkmen. Stop standing behind him, and put pressure on him, and he says: "Take control of the compass, do what he says. " Dear friends, Turkmen won't allow it, and the Turkish nation won't allow it. Turkmen will not agree to any attempt to eliminate Turkmen in that region. Yesterday Erşat Salihi was here - God bless - our government members and the Prime Minister accepted, accepted, met. We talked to them, too. I won't say much about it, but keep an eye on Turkmen. This shouldn't have anything to do with politics, guys. These issues are not political issues, they are national issues. In his power, in his opposition, let's take care of our Turkmen brother. But we're looking at group talks, we're looking at the speech of the government speakers, we're looking at the speech of Mr. Foreign Minister, but he's giving advice to Turkmen, so do this, and do this. Beyond that, Turkmen is not there. We want to hear the word. From the Prime Minister of this country, from the Foreign Minister of this country, our Turkmen brothers there are not unclaimed. We want to hear the word. We want to hear from you if you have the slightest bit of Turkish matter in you. If it's not, I'm just saying there's no point in expecting it.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0046par0391	By God, by God, this is Turkishness, for your sake. What kind of fascistism is that?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0044par0392	I'd like to finish my speech by saying one thing. In particular, there are terrorist threats against dams in our border zones, dear friends, and I do the task of warning our security forces here. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0047par0395	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0048par0397	They have made statements that we support ISIS, to explain it...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0047par0398	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0048par0399	Thank you very much. Mr. Sinan is a dear friend, and he's also interested in these matters, but it seems to be a little different to political nervousness. However, it also provides a partnership to discuss such common matters with the conference speech he had just objected to.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0049par0401	We have nothing in common.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0050par0402	We have nothing in common. But support the terrorist.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0051par0403	Seek partnership with ISIS. Your partners are obvious.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0052par0404	If I were to speak here, as my brother Sinan has spoken, we'd be so hot, we'd be at odds here trying to help the Turkmen, where gestures, gestures, and cruel criticisms are being expressed.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0053par0405	You and I have no partnership.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0054par0406	Your partners are BOP partners, BOP! Your BOP partners.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0052par0407	Our concern here is to show the public the will to help our brothers, a union, a partnership, social solidarity.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0053par0408	You've already identified your partners.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0055par0409	How do you expect a partnership with an understanding of a Muslim terrorist? First, correct your words.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0056par0410	We'd like to hear from you, Mr. President, would you care to step in?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0057par0411	Here, unjust claims to power, unfair criticisms are inadmissible in any way. There's no need to be Turkish.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0058par0412	The Turks, the Turks!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0059par0413	And you don't care about Islam.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0057par0414	Besides, no one's giving out Turkish. You can't doubt the nationality of the people here. If you do, you'll doubt the minds and nationalities of those who voted for these people.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0058par0415	Get 'em, get 'em!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0057par0416	So, a large part of the people, you say, "You don't even have a shred of Turkishness in you." You blame them.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0060par0417	Don't twist the words, what's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0057par0418	That's a very wrong logic, that's an unacceptable logic.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0060par0419	What does it have to do with your audition?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0061par0420	It's about you, it's about you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0057par0421	Therefore, dear friends, instead of making shadow boxing about the Turkmen issue, it is necessary to make accurate assessments of the reality there. There's reality there, there's Kurds, there's Turkmen, there's Arabs.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0060par0422	If one gun has gone to that ISIS, you will pay for it.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0057par0423	You have to see that the solution there is going to be with all of these elements. Don't worry, our Turkmen brothers are definitely not alone. We've said this before, we always say that. No underdog is alone. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0062par0426	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Against him, Isparta MP Recep Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0063par0430	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's general debate on the invasion of the Islamic terrorist organization of Musul, Iraq, and its related developments. Speaking on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Korutrk and the speaker speaking on behalf of the MHP, we are here to interrupt the branch that we've taken, friends, by coming here and saying that Congress has shown an insensitive picture of this. You're the MP, we're the MP, we're all building politics under this roof, we're representing the nation.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0064par0433	Call the AKP's Foreign Minister to make a statement to us.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0063par0434	Who is the benefit of us representing the nation by cutting the branch we're riding, highlighting the insensitivity of the House? What's the use? Is it good for you, is it good for us, is it good for the political community? Who's it helping?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0065par0435	Who does this conversation of yours benefit?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0063par0436	Don't think that when these issues are discussed here, when there are gaps around here, we're insensitive. The AK PARTY staff has never been insensitive to any matter and has never swept a matter under the rug, and we wish it to be known that way.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0065par0438	Come on, make the Rabia sign, come on.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0063par0439	Now, it's a delicate matter. We've got citizens down there, consulate staff, Turkmen in distress. Is that something to come and talk about on every platform in every public place?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0066par0440	We're not supposed to talk, we're not supposed to watch it!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0063par0441	Didn't our Foreign Minister come and inform all the opposition parties?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0067par0442	You talk about everything, you speak of al Qaeda, you make Rabia's mark.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0068par0443	I'm a Turk. Let the record show that I'm a Turk.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0069par0444	Congressmans, listen calmly, please.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0070par0445	He'll continue to give you that information and then he'll continue to give it to you. Please do not be in such a position as no one likes Turkishness, Turkmen, Turkishmen, and no one else is Turkish but you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0068par0446	You're a Turk. You're a Turk.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0070par0447	No one has a monopoly on turkishness. We love the Turks and the Muslim Arabs, and all the races in geography, all the people on earth, because they're human. We are not just a people, not a race... of course the Turkmen, of course the Turks are our brothers, we have more sensitivity to them.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0071par0448	Yeah, yeah, yeah...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0070par0449	Do not think that neither our government nor our party are insensitive to these developments in Iraq.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0072par0450	Mr. Recep, can you say I'm Turkish too?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0070par0451	Everything we can do is being carried out on the international platform, in the United Nations, in NATO, in the eyes of all international organisations. There's such a deaf government, an insensitive party. Please don't hide under his thing.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0073par0452	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0074par0453	Yeah, yeah, it's not insensitive, it's insensitive.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0070par0454	Is this a national issue? Shouldn't any of us be doing politics on this? Is this about politics?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0074par0455	When Rabia made the sign...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0070par0456	Is it something we should all be sensitive about, the safety of our citizens, the Turkmen? That's what you say...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0074par0457	When there was a massacre in Egypt, he was in the basement in shorts in the cove, Prime Minister!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0070par0458	The speaker who was just here says that I can't talk about everything here.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0074par0459	When the massacre took place in Egypt, he was walking in the cove in the basement!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0070par0460	Since he can't talk about everything here, there's an alliance there that some things shouldn't be talked about, but must be done. Don't worry, if we're not being informed here, if we're not being talked about here, if nothing's being done... all the things that need to be done are being done.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0075par0461	What are you doing?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0074par0462	What do you know?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0070par0463	The Foreign Affairs Commission has asked our Secretary of State to come in and give us some information.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0074par0464	Don't fool them!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0070par0465	You're destroying the institution you're in by calling the Foreign Commission, where you're a member. No commission of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a puppet, no organ is a puppet.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0076par0466	He has been made a puppet of the AKP.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0070par0467	No body of the Republic of Turkey is a puppet. At the point of each of these issues, the AK PARTY staff, with all its arms and all its strength...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0077par0468	ISIS staff...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0070par0469	...works to replace it, to solve it by adding its night to its day.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0077par0470	ISIS staff... shoe boxes...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0070par0471	Please, let's not let someone from the outside laugh at us by coming up with sensitive issues and making political material here. If we can provide integrity, unity, at least in these national issues, we will honor the political institution, we will glorify the House, we will glorify our country. When we talk about these issues, when these issues come and they're shared here, we have nothing to hide from any congressman, opposition parties. Each one is spoken, but everything has its time and its ground. Our citizens there have a security issue. I'm telling you, please do the math and come talk to him here.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0078par0472	Mr. Recep, what did your government tell you? What did the minister say? Share that information with us.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0070par0473	Today's agenda is clear. In a moment, we'll discuss the remaining international contract, and hopefully we'll end it today. My regards to you all, sir, are against the group proposal from the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0079par0475	I submit the proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0080par0476	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0081par0477	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0079par0478	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0080par0479	This Parliament uses the sovereignty of the Turkish nation. Are we to be silenced by terrorist organizations, who will not kick them in the face about the hands of the Turkish nation's sovereignty?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0082par0480	Wow!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0080par0481	This Parliament is not a hostage parliament, this Parliament is not a hostage parliament, you are insulting the Turkish nation. This Parliament is a Parliament that can make any will it wants, any place, any place it wants.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0083par0482	Mr. Vural, we don't have that kind of procedure, please.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0080par0483	3-5 marauders have taken our consulate hostage. Don't speak, shut up. Those who want to silence parliament are the mindsets that want to legitimize the coup and terror.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0084par0484	Speak, speak, shout.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0080par0485	Look, ever since this happened in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the government has said, "We will give information." He said, "We will not keep our promise." So today, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, if all of us together, if our flag is down today and our land is occupied, then this will, a will that constitutes the sovereignty of the Turkish nation, must present a will. This bitch should give the answer she deserves. I'm going to...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0085par0486	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0080par0487	Mr. President, look, you can thank me, please thank me when I'm done, but I'm not finished. It's important...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0086par0489	Talk, talk...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0085par0490	Go ahead, tell me, but...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0080par0491	Here, taking the word against it, this suggestion has been very accurate. Those who speak about it, now, by saying, "Yes." By saying it, it will really reveal whether they are acting in line with the promise that this proposal is true or not. I, in particular, address the Justice and Development Party: Come, all together, these atrocities in Iraq... the Turkmen want sound, they want support; come together, let us form a common will for the entire international community and government...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0085par0493	Mr. Vural, Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0080par0494	And in this regard, let's prove that the Turkish nation's voice is behind the Turkmen living in drama there, and let's do it the same way.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0085par0495	Mr. Vural... Your opinion on this matter has been expressed, sir. Mr. Vural, your motives have been voiced by previous speakers.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0087par0497	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0085par0498	Mr. Oğan, come in. What did you want?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0087par0500	Sir, the speaker twisted my words and claimed that I called the Foreign Commission the "Pulls" and the commission. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to fix it.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0088par0501	He's on the record, Mr. President, and if he didn't say so, he's filed a report.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0087par0502	If you'll excuse me, sir, I'd like to correct it.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0089par0503	Okay. Mr. Korutuk, what do you want?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0090par0505	Mr. President, the speaker has also mentioned my name, claiming that I've made the Turkmen matter of political abuse, and I'd like to answer to him.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0089par0506	First I promise Mr. Oğan. Then I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0091par0507	Mr. President, I have a request, too, after the speakers...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0089par0508	Then I'll listen to your request, sir, what is it? Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0092par0510	Mr. President, we have just said that we will not allow our foreign affairs commission to be reduced to a puppet commission. If this is the Foreign Commission, if a country's land has been invaded, you can't say if our land hasn't been occupied, if the flag has been taken down, you can't say that our land hasn't been occupied, our flag has been lowered, our diplomats, our special operations teams, eight months of children are hostages there, the Foreign Commission won't discuss what, for God's sake! Is he going to discuss the agricultural agreement with Senegal? If you won't discuss it with our Foreign Commission today at home, unfortunately, you will make the Foreign Commission a puppet commission. We won't allow it. We said, we won't allow it. Other than that, our Foreign Affairs Commission is a puppet commission. We didn't say that it would damage the dignity of the Assembly and the reputation of the Commission. Dear friends, I've just said, I repeat, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Oktay Vural has just expressed: come, let's all make a sound here. This Parliament is the Assembly of the Turkish nation, let's say that we, the parties with the signatures, will not allow the Turkmen to be crushed there. Turmen, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is behind you. Are you in? Are you up for that? I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0093par0514	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Here you are, Mr. Korutk.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0094par0516	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the precious orator just told me that we're doing political abuse on the Turkmen issue, there's no such thing, there's no such thing. Today there is a terrible tragedy in Iraq. Against this terrible disaster, we are behind the Turkmen. We're not at that point and there's no response to these advices. If you do so, it'll be good, if you do so, it'll be bad. Look, I didn't try to exploit anything from here. I've explained a ten-point plan here, this plan is in the transcripts, which will appear when it's opened and looked at. I said let the Justice and Development Party look at this plan and read it. If you're going to do something to the Turks, there's no other way to do it. You're going to bring the United Nations into this, you're going to bring the Iraqi Central Government into this, you're going to bring the Kurdistan regional administration into this, you're going to provide a relief channel with the contribution of Turkey, and you're going to save these people from violence and misery. Our friend says, "Is it good for you, or is it good for me?" It's not supposed to help me, it's not supposed to help you, it's supposed to help the Turkmen and humanity. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0095par0524	Thank you, Mr. Korutuk.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0096par0525	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0097par0526	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0095par0527	Mr. Original, what did you demand, your name didn't come up?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0097par0528	Mr. President, Mr. Bostanci, who was just speaking, said that about the Middle East, there were Muslims, Nusayri and Christians. So Nusayri made the Alevi division look like another non-Islamic, non-Islamic religion. That understanding represents the common sense. Whether he corrects it or leaves it, we are members of this Selefi ecole. Let him say...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0098par0529	Alevi are Muslims.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0097par0530	Look, guys, the Alevi Nusayri are called the Arab Flames. Islam is in it. Your representative, sir, said Christian, Nusayri, and Muslim, made it look like something else. That understanding is wrong, that's common sense, so please fix it.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0098par0532	Alevi are Muslims.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0097par0533	Then fix it.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0099par0534	Yes, Mr. Bostanci...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0100par0535	I certainly didn't mean it that way. The Nusayri, of course, are within the Islamic circle -- at least I see them myself -- that's how I see them. I don't know how anyone sees themselves. And I'm not the one to appoint it. I've been talking about the name-calling in the public opinion debates. I've never made a statement that would be understood the way Ali Bey said.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0099par0536	Okay, you fixed it, thank you. Mr. Tanal, what is your wish?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0101par0538	Dear President, the speakers said: "What good do we have in this business?" Look, our Mosul Consul has been kidnapped.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0099par0539	Mr. Tanal, you're very welcome, we don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0101par0540	I'm sorry, one sentence, it's over.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0099par0541	Everyone spoke, and those who had been bullied answered.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0101par0542	Now, the consul general of Mosul represents the President of the Republic of Turkey abroad, representing the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. So, the fact that our consul there was kidnapped means that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey has been kidnapped. There's no way the House will be indifferent to this, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0099par0543	Thank you. I'm going to vote.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0102par0546	We demand roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit01spe0099par0547	There must be a motion for roll call before the vote. Mr. Altay, Mr. Acar, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Öner, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Şaş, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Guler, Mr. Serter, Mr. Kürturk, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Moroğlu, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Eygun, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Aydın. Yeah, I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough for a meeting, I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0099par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 108th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Y O L A M A Before the Republican People's Party Group voted on the proposal, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday 25/06/2014 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President In the absence of 48 hours of the number of Law Bills, number 609, which was distributed, the agenda would be "The Law Bill and Other Affairs From Laws and Propossessions" in the fourth place, and the drafts of 593, 391 and 458 in this section would be again in order of 8, 14 and 15 degrees, and the order of other tasks would be considered according to this order. Turkey's Grand National Assembly continued its work on July 1, 2014, without taking a vacation, according to Article 5 of the Grand National Assembly; On Tuesday, July 1, 08, 15 and 22, 2014, the talks of verbal questions and other audit issues are not discussed, and the talks are on the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions"; On Wednesday (July 2, 09), 16 and 23, 2014, the unspoken question was not discussed; On Wednesday (June 25, 2014) to the completion of the talks of Bill 554 in the merger; Until July 01, 2014, when the talks were completed on Tuesday's merger of 163 rows to the end of the Charter of the Law; On Wednesday, July 2, 2014, it's 2:00 p.m. Until the meeting at 00 and the completion of negotiations on the work of the Law Bill, which is 244 rows in this combination; Thursday, July 3, 2014, 2:00 p.m. Until the meeting at 00 and the completion of the negotiations of the work of the Legislature of Number 89 in this merger; 8th, 15th and 22nd July 2014, 15th and 21st on Tuesday. Between 00 hours, 09, 10, 16, 17, 23 and 24 July 2014, Wednesday and Thursday, 2400-21. Between 00 hours; It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. In the event that the daily schedules are incomplete at 00 a.m., the daily schedules will continue to be completed; In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Charter of 593, it is considered the basic law and its sections in the accompanying form; It's recommended. In favor of the proposal, Congressman Ramazan Can. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0103par0033	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. In our group proposal, we recommend that the International Convention, number 609, be brought to the fourth place on the agenda in 48 hours. Again, in our group proposal, we propose that R&D Bill No. 593 be discussed as the main law in two chapters and brought to the eighth order of the agenda. Again, in our group proposal, we propose that international contracts between the Korean State of 391 and 458 and our government be placed in the 14th and fifteenth place. Again, in our group proposal, we recommend that the Assembly not take a vacation on July 1st, and that the General Assembly work until July 25th. We set the agenda and schedules until July 25th. According to this, no verbal questions on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, and 3:00-21 on Tuesdays. Between 00 p.m., Wednesdays and Thursdays, 2:00 a.m., 21 p.m. I recommend that he work in the hours of the 00 hours, the group submits the acceptance of our proposal to the discretion of the General Assembly, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0104par0039	Thank you, Mr. Can. Against you, Sinop MP Engin Altay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0105par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. The ruling party members of the group probably forgot about the Ramadan as they prepared this proposal. You haven't calculated the iftar here either. I mean, you probably won't be fasting this year, obviously. Yours is nothing, so when you enter this blessed moon, you put up a calendar like this, you're afraid of God, and you think about those Parliament staff. You, of course, the council's restaurant, shuru, this... What will these children do, these council personnel? Is that even possible? What a shame, what a sin. First, we have to tell you this part of the job. Members of parliament, now, Mr. President of the ruling party, at the group meeting, he roared, said: "We will run the Assembly to July or something. A decree, an imposition. It's not understandable, it's not acceptable, it's not kind, it's not sympathetic. Of course, the ruling party may have laws to raise for the benefit of the public, for the benefit of the state, for the nation, but we have a majority of them. We're going to run this Parliament to the 24th of July and we're going to pass it on, brother. It's not like we're going to throw a salvo. Thank you, you can. On behalf of the opposition party in advance, we'll see you here every five minutes for a minimum of 185 people during July. Every five minutes, 185 ruling party MPs will sit at this time. You'll have to risk it. I don't want you to be embarrassed by your president tomorrow. For example, if you did this, the Plan and Budget Commission has been working upside down for days. There are 8-9 items that we can immediately sign for the wounds in Soma. However, in public, there is a variety of collections from real estate to a bonus pardon, a tolerance of debt that citizens cannot pay, a pardon of interest, and we will immediately sign under it. But you place in this bag a decree that clearly eliminates the 138th article of the Constitution. I'm surprised at the lawyers in the ruling party, how they got their law school diplomas. If it is taunting, taunting, teasing, and taunting, are you forcing opposition on 40 mules or forty lines? This is Parliament, of course, where you pass the law with your majority of fingers, but if you call the opposition like this, here in Parliament, when the law is discussed, it's a big waste of the state's time due to the Parliament's waste of time, and the laws that pass through are not as mature as they should be. That's what we need to say. On the other hand, it was good that Parliament worked in July, and it was really good. You know, on May 5th, a parliamentary commission of investigations into the four ministers suspected of their actions in the 17th and 25 December investigations with Turkey's opposition to the Grand National Assembly General Assembly ruled. It is the greatest desecration and insult to the national will that the ruling party, on every occasion, resists so much to prevent the President General from setting up this commission. The length of the investigation commission's work has already been approved on the Parliamentary General Assembly for two months on May 5th, and today's 25th, two months later, the commission has not been established. Why? Sir, if this commission is set up in the presidential process, the commission's work will be news, which would be a problem. What a shame, can you think of such a thing? Erdogan must never speak the word "respect of national will" again. In this General Assembly, you voted for these boxes there. You said, "Let the Commission be established." Against your will, lawmakers, there's been a lot of disrespect. In this regard, lawmakers need to do what is required by the nation to do with its power of power and opposition. Now, the government spokesman says, when asked about the delay of the investigative commission, Mr. Government's Speaker says: I believe that within this week the EC PARTI Group will have reported its members to the investigation commission, or if it does not report it, then there may be a deliberate delay. The AK PARTY Group is responsible for this. When did Bulent Arinc say that? He told me on June 2nd, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0106par0049	It's not a laughing matter, Mr. Elitaş, it's a very serious matter.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0105par0050	Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc has accused you, openly accused you. Come out, now, without taunting, and answer to Bulent Arinc.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0106par0051	Well, isn't that a funny subject, Mr. Elistash, very funny subject, very funny!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0107par0052	I'm not taking you in.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0105par0053	You might say: "No, sir, members of the opposition party have paid attention, members of the opposition party have expressed their views, sent them back, the CHP has not reported them on time." No, we've made the necessary correspondence. The president of the House is taking over. The Speaker doesn't have that kind of authority, but in order for the commission to begin its work as soon as possible, we have informed our members, despite the extortion of this authority, that the Speaker has used a power that he does not have. Congressmans, it's strange how this party looks at Parliament. The congressman who just spoke on behalf of the ruling party said that if he tried to correct it, he couldn't correct it, and if he tried to correct it, his apology would be greater than his guilt. I don't know if the congressman is here. There is no greater power than Parliament. You say, "The capitol of national will." You say, "This is the place where the government uses it in the name of the nation." You say, "But the MP from the ruling party who just spoke at a group's proposal declared this chair, this Parliament in public." Let him come and apologize. Parliament is not a common place. The first place to discuss the Mosul issue is Parliament, and then the matter of Mosul should be discussed on the National Security Council. How strange, how intriguing! You're a congressman, you're here, your embassy is occupied in a neighbouring country, your 80 citizens are held hostage, you're being held hostage, this is not a matter for public discussion. Shame on you! I'm calling on the ruling party deputy, the MP, I've crossed my heart, I've misspoken. Can you call this place a middle ground, Mr. Lawmakers? One more thing: there are tensions on this platform from time to time. There was an incident yesterday. Of course, this bench has immunity, it has innocence, it has freedom, but no doubt it does not require insulting anyone, apart from the fact that the MPs have paid a lot of compensation for what they said on this stand, and a lot of politicians have earned compensation, and that's the way, that's the way. Here, here, most of the time, to the opposition, to the Presidential Court, such collective, disparagement is not right, it is unacceptable. Last semester, after the end of the year of the third legislature of the 24th term, we gave a farewell speech saying that all parties are the work of kindness and conscience before politics. We all have to fit in. A friend of ours, an MP -- from power, from opposition -- can cross his intentions on this bench, insult him; then we rehabilitate him, force him to apologize, they go wrongly, but go wrongly, into this numerical majority, and let no one attempt to discipline anyone in this parliament, to correct anyone; the price is too high, not too good, not too good.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0108par0058	What's the price?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0105par0059	I'll tell you that too, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0108par0060	Name your price and we'll take a stand.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0105par0061	I mean, if he gets out of here and walks to the stand, somebody's gonna...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0108par0062	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0105par0063	Well, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0108par0064	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0105par0065	Come talk to me, brother. There's no need for that, I suggest a better one: kindness and conscience.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0108par0067	What's the price?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0105par0068	Yeah, well, whatever you do, you'll get paid back.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0108par0069	I mean, the friend you described as walking to that stand...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0109par0070	Please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0105par0071	Whatever you do, that's the price. You'll get it back. You get it, we get it, we get it, we get it. I'm saying it for both sides. I'm not threatening or accusing you. I'm saying Parliament must maintain its dignity. One way to maintain the dignity of Parliament is to get it out of the yoke of the legislature. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0110par0075	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0111par0076	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0110par0077	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0111par0078	There must be something missing from the speaker, so if he's missing, let me talk to him about the motion, or I'll talk to him without picking on him. Is there?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0110par0079	No, word demands are in order. Then come in, I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0112par0081	Did I make fun of you?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0113par0082	You called me, what else?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0110par0083	A little bit. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0113par0085	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President is calling me here on the stand and he doesn't know he's picking on me.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0114par0086	All right, so get rid of the yoke of running this place.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0113par0087	Look, Mr. Group Vice President, the esteemed MPs, the MP of this Parliament has the right to speak every thought of his own free will, he has no right to blaspheme, he has no right to slander. You say: "The compensation for swearing is compensation." Then you say: "Whatever you do, you will receive the equivalent of it. " Look, what you say: whatever you do...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0115par0088	The Civil Code dictated the punishment for blasphemy.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0114par0089	There's the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0113par0090	Mr. Altay, where does compensation come from? It's an insult, it's an insult. If you curse, go to the court, brother, search for your rights, but if the ruling party MP does anything, you'll be rewarded. If you curse, then you will be rewarded. The result goes here. We don't desire it, we say...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0114par0091	You want to be cursed?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0113par0092	The ruling party and opposition party MPs are here with literary, decentness, but let's express our views in a democratic way, let's talk about it, without hurting. Even if you're hurt, let's do it in accordance with the law of hurting.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0116par0093	Don't tell us that. Tell that to the main blasphemous in Congress.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0113par0094	But you still think it's appropriate to address a Group Vice President in front of the Deputy Director of the Group, and you think it's appropriate.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0117par0095	Did I just throw words at you?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0113par0096	I'm saying that to the one next to you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0118par0097	But what did you do to the main blasphemous in the House? That's what I'm asking.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0113par0098	And then you say, like this, like this. Secondly, look, Mr. President, you're referring to it as a lot of fingers. This finger represents 150,000 Turkish citizens.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0119par0100	What does ours represent, ours? Brother, we've been assigned an opposition citizen.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0113par0101	The finger here and the finger there represent 150,000 Turkish citizens. Here you are, if you had entered the soul of the citizen, the heart, you would have taken the majority of the 313 MPs here. Second issue...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0119par0103	Well, our mission is opposition, opposition, opposition.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0113par0104	People are already giving you a lifetime of opposition! The nation has already given you the mandate of opposition forever!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0119par0105	What kind of democracy is it to be solittle the opposition?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0113par0106	Mr. President, about this investigation commission. Look, Article 109 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0120par0108	It's over, time's up.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0121par0109	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0122par0110	He's wasted, he's out of time.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0123par0111	If opposition parties had done so in accordance with the Civil Code, this commission would have already been established.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0121par0112	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0124par0113	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0125par0114	Yeah, well, that's it. It's so hypocritical.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0121par0115	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş, we understand.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0126par0116	I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0127par0118	Elitaş, we know you had nothing to do with this theft, but it's defense!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0128par0119	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0129par0120	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0128par0121	The preacher, although the microphone was cut, is in the transcripts, accusing us of violating the Civil Code as the opposition party -- that's the exact sentence -- it's obviously a taunt.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0130par0122	I said, "If it had followed the Civil Charter."
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0128par0123	That's an accusation.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0130par0124	Yeah, the charge of conformity...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0131par0125	He says we're in violation of the Civil Code from his opponent, so...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0128par0126	I didn't say a word, and I don't think it's fair to swear.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0130par0127	No, the insult is legitimate...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0132par0128	Now, Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0128par0129	No, he violated the Civil Code, so it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0132par0130	Mr. Altay, I believe your words are true, I haven't heard one-on-one. But, Mr. Altay, I'll give you my word for two minutes, please don't give me any more bullying, and I'll leave it at that, please. Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0128par0132	Thank you. I'm in favor of the harshest condemnation of anyone who swears on this stand. What I'm saying is that it can be severe criticism from the bench, it can be unfair criticism, it can be serious accusation, it can be unjust accusation. For example, a congressman says: "You're a liar." It's not blasphemy, it's obvious, it pays compensation. A congressman says: "You are a thief. If not, you will pay compensation. This is their way." I say. There's already an answer to blasphemy, rude language, hurtful words in the Civil Code, which you know best, Mr. Elitaş, in this House, but I don't think it's your intention to twist and distort my words as a counterpart. Furthermore, as to why this investigation commission is not being established, I can only say this: I mean, as of now, has the ruling party announced 27 names to the Speaker of Parliament? He didn't report it. We set up the commission on May 5th; fear God, fear God, and fear God. That's all I'm saying. My respects.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0133par0138	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0134par0139	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0135par0140	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0133par0141	Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0135par0142	With the parliamentary investigation, we have delivered our commissioners to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We then redoed the article on the case of some commissioners, but the Justice and Development Party unfortunately obstructs the investigation commission; this is the painting. The heart wants this investigation commission to begin as soon as possible and to answer for the Turkish nation of corruption and bribery. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0136par0145	Yes, please, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0137par0146	Mr. President, Mr. Altay has accused himself of twisting his words and has said, "Have fear of God."
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0138par0147	Well, be afraid, my dear! We are afraid of God, and everyone is afraid. I am afraid of God, and I fear error, and sin.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0139par0149	Teacher, tell God I'm scared of you. I don't need Parliament.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0140par0150	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make my point in two minutes.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0141par0151	Okay, you're going to express your fear, and I assume you're going to announce a member of the Commission.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0139par0152	Mr. Elitaş, tell God I'm afraid of you. It means nothing to tell us.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0141par0153	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0142par0155	Now, look, dear lawmakers, along with Mr. Altay, we work for the Internal Charter Commission. The third joke of the Article 109 of the Civil Code is decided to establish a parliamentary investigative commission, the founding commission of the MEClis investigation. In order to form an investigation commission, the procedures must be carried out. What are these transactions? It is written in the Constitution. The Constitution says: According to the majority, the main opposition party has 3-4 members; the Republican People's Party should offer 12 members to the investigation commission as its main opposition party. One member for the nationalist movement party, and he's going to offer three of them. HDP will also receive one member, and will offer three. The EC PARTY Group will also be represented by nine people, offering 27 members.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0143par0156	No, I know that, but tell me why you didn't report it. Why didn't you report the members?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0142par0157	Look, what he says is the 109's (3)th joke of the Court of Corrections Act: the MPs who have proposed a parliamentary inquiry or had previously expressed their opinion on this matter in the Grand National Assembly or outside of the Turkish Parliament cannot be elected to this commission, which, according to the Law of Justice, would prevent judges from looking at the case or participating in the verdict. We are looking at now, among the members you have given...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0143par0158	Okay, let me know first.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0144par0159	Are you the Speaker?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0142par0160	Please, Mr. Topstone, please...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0145par0161	You guys go ahead. Please listen.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0142par0163	...of all the members you've given...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0146par0164	But tell me if you reported it, dear.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0145par0165	Please listen. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0147par0167	Mr. President, I mean, friends, our ruling party MPs know, but the opposition doesn't want to know.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0148par0168	No, did you?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0149par0169	We know, you find out.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0147par0170	Among the members you gave me, Mr. Altay, you must have overlooked the motion that you gave the congressman who signed the motion as commissioner.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0149par0171	Mr. Elistash, don't sign. Did you report it?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0147par0172	So it's your responsibility not to impose the case. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0150par0175	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0151par0176	Why don't you report it?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0152par0177	Why don't you report it?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0150par0178	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0153par0179	The Justice and Development Party fears an investigation, that's the painting, no heart.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0154par0180	Mr. President, on this conversation, I'd like to make a statement. As soon as we noticed our congressman who signed the motion, we gave the Speaker a new name.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0155par0181	I mean, you took it too seriously, I knew it!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0154par0182	Furthermore, it has been days since the parliamentary presidency has declared names instead of nine MPs after unauthorized elimination. But, Mr. Elitaş, where are your names?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0156par0183	Must have gotten lost in the mail.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0154par0184	Where are these 27 people, you come out and answer me. That kind of rashness, that kind of sassiness, that's what makes me give up.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0156par0185	Sir, the Justice and Development Party does not report members, and that's it.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0157par0186	We wonder if Reza is threatening.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0156par0187	Reza hasn't approved it yet.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0158par0188	This is all on the record, sir. The responsibility and the answer are theirs. Now, Adana MP Seyfettin Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0159par0191	Mr. President, I've made a mandatory commitment to the Justice and Development Party's group proposal, but it's impossible to be in favor of this group's proposal.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0160par0192	You can't talk to me about it! He warned about the Civil Charter.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0159par0193	So, Mr. Elitaş, you're bringing in a group proposal like this, so where do we benefit from this group proposal? I'm asking you, for God's sake, there's a Ramadan bear ahead of us.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0161par0194	Let's not disagree. Mr. Elitaş has spoken against you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0159par0195	If God grants us Friday, we will rise to glory and fast on Saturday.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0162par0196	I hope so.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0159par0197	I hereby congratulate the Ramadan month of our nation. I pray that God will bring blessings and peace and peace to the Turkish and Islamic world. Now, you obviously don't know what you're trying to do with this group proposal, or what you're doing. Now it's a big band, you've been running this country for 12 years. On March 30th, we got out of the election, and ten days later, the House met. If you love God, I ask the lawmakers here: often the House has entered into some forced work to create an agenda. From time to time, you couldn't provide the majority, the House had to close. We are now entering Ramadan here in a process that has often been empty, and there is a presidential election that will determine the fate of Turkey on August 10th. In the course of time that we've been through such critical processes, you've come up with a group proposal like this. You know as well as I do that this group proposal doesn't apply. So you're saying here that it's 21 o'clock. Until 00....... 21. How will you work until 00? We open at eight, eight-thirty. What are you going to work on? So we'll be able to see the MPs who opened up iftar at the General Assembly? I'm speaking to your group. So without seeing these... you've probably been instructed to work all the way to the 24th. Look, your main objective here is this: but whatever you plan, it's not like your plan. Here's your main goal: we have a presidential election ahead of us. This presidency...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0163par0199	Mr. Yilmaz, a moment of your time. I'll add a minute of your time. The Kenyan Agricultural Commission and its members have arrived in our Parliament. Welcome to them. We welcome them in the name of our coven. [[Applause]] Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0164par0203	Yes, and I welcome the Kenyan delegation and Mr. President. I say, my respects. Now, we see together that this is not possible to apply. I'm telling you now, on behalf of the National Party of Action, let's work for 24 hours. If we're going to solve people's issues, people's problems in this House, we're not going to run away from work. Twenty-four hours of work. But with some plans, to do some of your own calculations, you're trying to bring in another plan that you don't believe in, many of your deputies -- I mean, they can deny it, but when I see it outside -- until July 24th, when you bring in the work that you don't believe in. It's not in the best interest of the nation. Now, we have the presidential election ahead of us, and we have a blessed Ramadan month. We're gonna go meet our constituents, our nation. We'll open up their dinners together. We'll share their troubles, their troubles together. Why are you trying to stop this now? So what's your purpose here? If there's something urgent... what's the emergency, I'm telling you, Mr. Prime Minister, you're going to run for President. And before that, you're trying to get the votes of all the communities to come up with some plans that we can discuss here and do something about it. We've been hearing about you again, and we see that you've made promises to the baby killer, and you're doing it again. You're doing the election numbers again. You will bring those laws here. I mean, if your intentions were good, amenna. If there are problems that concern a part of society, a large part of it, let's all do it together. We're calling from here, go ahead. Gather it in September after the presidential election. You have a majority. Bring them in, and we'll see what's urgent. And what, for God's sake, is Turkey's Grand National Assembly doing other than some work imposed on its own? When it comes to words, when it comes to words, we're talking about national will. Although the most important decision of national will is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, who knows nothing, is the MPs of this Parliament, who are unaware of anything. The government is pushing something, the three or five people in the government are pushing something, and we have to obey them. This is an insult to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It's an insult to the will of the nation. This is an insult to the MPs. I hereby declare that no one has the right to insult their MPs and the will of the nation. Turkey is crying out for blood. What are we talking about here? Our closest neighbors around us have reached the point of division in Iraq and Syria. You've been in power for 12 years, what did you do about it, what prediction did you have? The Republican People's Party's proposal has just been discussed here. I'm asking you, for God's sake, if the government is still on duty and the Foreign Minister is holding tight to that seat, what will are you talking about? Is he doing a study on this, Congress? Here, Kerkuk is crying blood. We're entering Ramadan. What happened in Mosul, and in Kerkuk, and in Tuzhurmatu. What are we doing here, what are we discussing, what are we talking about? Now, there's a lot of allegations going around. If you're in Syria with your policy for Assad, with some work you've entered today to overthrow Assad, in Iraq, in Musul, in Kerkok, you see a bloody organization, they cut off their heads, they act barbaricly -- if we have an ounce of influence in their growth, in its growth, in its growth, in its growth, in its growth, in its sprouting, in these three months, in these blessed months, in this month, in the month of Ramadan, what do the law of Ramadan do, what do they do to get rid of this injustice? If your government has any say in the matter, you must answer for it with God.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0165par0212	Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0164par0213	Wave all you want from there. You talk trash every day without knowing what's what. Kerkuk is crying blood, Mosul is crying blood, Muslim Turkish people are crying blood, you're making hand signals from there. If you have a share in this, you will answer with God.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0166par0214	Put that finger down!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0164par0215	You'll never get away with this. If we're going to discuss this, come, we're going to study, if we're going to figure this out, let's work it out. ISIS progresses every day. In Mosul, our consulate was occupied. What do you mean, what do I mean? This means the invasion of Turkish soil. The flag down there, the flag. Whose flag is that? The Turkish flag. We won't speak when he's down... but I say this: Mr. Prime Minister used the same expression when the flag was down in Diyarbakir, the one who dropped it, the one who dropped it, must be taken down. He's right, Prime Minister. But, Mr. Prime Minister, you laid out the milestones to bring down that flag. It is you, Mr. Prime Minister, who killed our soldiers with the Kalashnikov weapons, who killed our police in front of the police, who cut roads, where they collect taxes, where they bring out their own security forces, if they come to the point where they're going to declare their sovereignty, you're responsible and responsible for that. Yes, it's true, those who bring down that flag must be brought down, but those who lead to that flag will surely be brought down by the Turkish people. Now, how will this government take possession of the flag in Diyarbakir? What kind of prediction is that? I became the leader of the world. By saying, "I have become the great state." By saying, "There is no great state." What's a government out there that can't even evacuate our consulate, our staff, and our private operatives while some private companies are attracting their staff? Now, he says: "We have brought a gag order on events in Musul. " Are the problems solved? How many days have passed? What's going on? It's a terrorist organization, you call it. If the Barbarian terrorist organization takes hundreds of our citizens hostage, tortures hundreds of Muslim Turkish nations, slaughters them, progresses for days, takes over cities, where is your great state? It's not gonna happen with the TVs you've taken over, the pool media, the government's every opportunity to lecture you. In this period of Ramadan, everyone will put their hands on their conscience. If anyone is responsible for these tasks, he will surely pay for them in this world and in the next. I say I am against the group's proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0167par0221	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel against him. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0168par0224	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the esteemed lawmakers on a group proposal that the Justice and Development Party Group wants to run the Assembly through July. Of course, our opposition is not to discuss the laws that the people are waiting for in the House, the workers, the workers, the oppressed. You know, there's a bag of laws debated by the public, which are now discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission, and it's a bag of legislation that starts with changes in the Business Law, then intervenes in government law, brings tax pardons, mentions 30-odd laws, and we're looking at a full bag of laws, but there's really no regulation in the context of this law that applies to the demands of workers, miners who are killed in business. Both the other opposition MPs and we said: "If the government wants to do something good, if it wants to ease Somah's suffering, if it wants to prevent business killings, let it separate them, let it meet immediately, let the Parliamentary General Assembly immediately issue this law, these regulations, but now, as it has not been issued, the Commission insists on this arrangement -- and the Commission is not being given information in accordance with its internal law, by not being properly employed." Now, that's a reason to extend the deadline. Another important reason -- linked to the public statements made by Vice Prime Minister Mr. Besir Atalay -- is a legal arrangement expected in the process of resolving the Kurdish issue, which is a democratic, equitable, peace-winning process that has lasted for two years, aimed at preventing our young people's deaths, and a legal guarantee of what needs to be done in this process. This has been expected for a long time, and there is no need to wait too long; it has already been a work and activity everywhere to ensure that such a peace be made quickly by the oppressed peoples of Turkey, Kurds, Alevis, workers, workers, and workers. Therefore, we do not find it right to extend them for a period of time, making excuses, using them as excuses. The issue that the MPs have just discussed in the CHP group proposal is: I mean, in Iraq's territory, we see that the terrorist organization, which plays a role in the operation of the imperialist plans that led to the disintegration of Iraq, is that the invasion of the consulate, the number of hostages, the increasing day-to-day, the demand to be discussed in the parliament and the public, but we see now that the opposition MPs, a Turkman and nationalist statement, want to intervene in what happened, but the errors in foreign policy are hitting us on an increasing scale every day. The declaration of ISIS as a terrorist organization is not an issue, because we are actually looking at the Ottoman and Turkish-Islam syntax of AKP power happening on Iraqi soil today, and therefore, today, crying, begging in front of it is a futile cry. Therefore, we need to act by seeing them. So if this matter had been discussed in the House in the last few weeks, I mean, this is a national issue for us. If it had been insisted on the attitude of the Council asking for a geneorization that would have gone back to the Prime Minister on these matters, then it would have been much better understood that this foreign policy was a non-effective policy, a policy that would have turned and hit us. Yes, these issues need to be discussed, wrong foreign policy needs to be discussed, wrong bag laws against workers, workers, subcontractors, subcontractor regulations must be discussed. Dear lawmakers, look, the second part of minimum wage will now be discussed as we arrive in July. By now, this 45-dollar increase has already been a lie, it's melted away. Let us discuss the minimum wage can be lived, hunger, and a fee beyond the poverty limit; let us discuss legal provisions that will prevent workers, workers, workers, and workers from ever giving their lives; let us discuss the demands of our anxious, Alevi citizens who are concerned about discrimination; let us discuss the concerns of our citizens, especially those who have the sense of a recent exile hunt on them. All of this is the problems of this country, this country, these people, but it's not a job not to discuss them, but to discuss new attack laws at the request of the equity class, according to the wishes of the employers, and to continue this course of action in the Plan and Budget. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, look, in the last week and this week, I visited the struggling workers, and I informed the public of the press conference at noon today. I'd like to share this issue with you, because who will run for president, who will run for prime minister, the main opposition candidate for roof, who will the HDP show? Here we are entering the month of Ramadan, the invasion of Mosul, the exploding inflation of food, but their pain is being heard, and the struggle against the rights of workers, workers living from the heart in the life of the family, and the struggle against it is being made invisible. Dear lawmakers, more than 7,000 earthquake victims are on hunger strike in the sit-in at Van. In September 2011, these people were given temporary labor so that they wouldn't be exposed after the Van earthquake, but on June 13th, jobs are terminated. What will 7,000 people do? The government then made such an arrangement in the face of public pressure, but now the Governor of Van says, "I can't do anything, do whatever you want." Their supplications are obvious; they send letters, they are asked to be heard.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0169par0233	Let's build a factory right now!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0168par0234	The miners who worked in the primitive conditions of Şırnak are now closed to remove the conditions of those people's hunger, their unemployment, with a flashlight hanging from the well, with a helmet, with a helmet on their head, not with a helmet. Those people are going to contaminate the thermal plant. They object, the people of Şırnak. Now, in the name of punishment and subjugation, the stoves are now being closed and asked to be disciplined. This attitude is not a righteous attitude. The promise to the Somalis is not being fulfilled. The miners at the Kütahya Seyiter thermal power plant, living how bad it is to privatize, 700 workers are at the door. Why? Since they seek rights, let's be equal to workers, because they want tea, food, water, and because they want to be unionized, because the Steelers who bought it as a result of privatisation object to anonym corporation's arbitrary, abusive treatment, abusive treatment. The privatisation is bad, privatisation is a hit. We said, "It's the same treatment now for the workers in Yahten, Yeniköy, Kemerköy." He who is in Soma, and is in Şırnak, and is in Tetahiah Seyiter, shall be in Yathen, the day after tomorrow, and the workers shall stand up for him. Look, valuable lawmakers, there's talk of subcontractors upstairs, and Congress is continuing to run subcontractors. At the front door of the parliament, when a DEV SAZİZİŞ-İSK member, health worker subcontractors wanted to announce their voices here, police coupu, water, detention... it happened today, in the afternoon, with DİSK Secretary General Arzu Çerkekoğlu, workers were taken into custody. Among them were five subcontractors who were expelled from the University of Marseilles. They got sick from this abuse, the Clave didn't send an ambulance, the ambulance came from the sample hospital. The landscapes of Turkey are these valued MPs. If we're going to talk, if we're going to make a law, if there's going to be an arrangement, if there's going to be a commission, let's talk about it. But let us put an end to the workman, to slavery, to hunger, to our citizen of Flame, to the Circezie, and to the other, to all the things that provoke one another among the peoples. The Middle East is boiling boiler, the Middle East is being provoked by sectarianism, religion in the Middle East is being used for politics, behind which are imperialist plans. Against the slaughter of the people, we must first defend peace in our own country, and then in Middle Eastern geography, which wants to be divided and torn apart. Who would that be with? It has been seen that he will not be with the AKP. Therefore, Parliament must seize this business, and these matters must be discussed here with full clarity. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0170par0240	With who? With who?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0171par0241	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. The Justice and Development Party...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0172par0244	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit02spe0171par0245	Yeah, he's got a roll call. I'll meet the motion before the motion vote. Mr. Altay, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Develi, Mr. Akar, Mr. Öner, Mr. Aksinger, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Light, Mr. Koruturk, Mr. Earth, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Canalioğlu. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0171par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 108th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Ill-Y O K L A M A Before the ruling of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to you the motion of the Justice and Development Party Group: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, we're going to move on to the "Builds to Be on Special Agenda" part of the agenda. We are starting a general discussion on Parliamentary Research Commission 489, established in accordance with Articles 10/74, 471, 471, 4772, 473, 474 and 105, under Articles 104 of the Constitutional Charter. Commission? No. It's been postponed. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the European Union's Compliance Commission, Interior Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 3rd place, in accordance with the Charter for the Approvement of Agreement on Responsibility between the Republic of Turkey and the European Union. The commission and the government are in place. Talks on the entire bill were completed in the 106-leading Union, dated 19/6/2014. I now submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. DRAFT Union WITH TURKEY REPUBLIC BEHIND THE CONTINUE OF CONTINUE TO THE CONTINUE OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN WITHOUT YOU MADDE 1- (1) Agreement on Responsibility between the Republic of Turkey and the European Union, signed in Ankara on 16 December 2013, has been approved. On behalf of groups on the matter, İstanbul MP Osman Taney Kortuk on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Korutk.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0173par0036	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear friends, we're discussing a re-enactment agreement between the European Union and Turkey. The Ministry of the European Union has printed a beautiful pamphlet on the resuscitation agreement. That pamphlet is colorful, beautiful, it explains everything. There's a phrase the English use for Anglo-Saxons, they call it sugar-coated. It's a candy-covered brochure. They cover the pain with sugar, and when you swallow the pain, you taste the sugar, you don't know when you're swallowing the pain. It's a brochure like that. Speaking on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Adana MP Faruk Logoglu spoke in a long and multi-inclusive speech. I don't know if you've been listening, but I don't think you've been listening.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0174par0038	They wouldn't listen.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0173par0039	You may not have listened, but I have some advice for you. Find out what's on the books and read it. While speaking, maybe 20 minutes may not sound very appealing, but in context, he explained why this agreement should not be signed by Turkey at this stage, what mistakes they have, what needs to be corrected, and what needs to be signed after that. Now, look, folks, we don't talk here, as the Republican People's Party, in blind opposition, just to criticize. We're not against making this deal, but we think it needs to be done right, not misunderstood. When the government presented it, it presented it in the wrong way. And he got up, and he said, "We're making this deal, and in return, in three years the European Union will lift visas, and we'll give our people the good news of visas. This agreement doesn't give our people visas, it has nothing to do with it." When you read the clauses of the agreement, it says: "If I see you apply properly, as I like, in three years, then should I apply for visa exemption, soften the visa regime, think about it, evaluate it, vote on it if I have to." When he says, "If necessary, I will vote on it." When he says, "The vote is not simple, it's not a simple vote, it's a proper vote, it's a vote of two-thirds vote." The European Union has so far promised Turkey, the Turkish Cypriots, other places with us. I want you to remember which one of these has been fulfilled. And that's this: let's see if you're doing this right for three years. Yes, three years later, if you're doing well, then we'll think about it, and we'll try to make it easier for you. They say something so soft, so unconnective, and we'll sign the feedback agreement. You didn't listen to Faruk Logoglu, but I'll tell you this very simply, what is this re-enactment agreement? Turkey to the West, Europe to the West; people who are illegal, who have no residence permit, come to Turkey, and pass there from Turkey to there. We're forced to accept these people with this re-enactment agreement. If a person in any city of Western Europe, in any European Union, in any country, in any country, who has gone there illegally, is caught, and when he is captured, he appears in those who have come to believe that he has gone from Turkey, without having to prove it -- because when you read it, you see the agreement, there is no proof -- he sends it back to you. Send one person, send three people, send five people, you might have no objection. But, again, a valued MP who spoke on behalf of another opposition party said: every year 500,000 illegal people migrate to the European Union, and more than half of these 500,000 illegal people pass through Turkey. We also made agreements with some countries that I didn't understand by my technical opinion why they were doing it right now. Thus, many who come to us and come to us not to stay but to go to the European Union come to Turkey legally, leaving there, crossing west, moving to Western Europe. They will catch them in Western Europe, and they will send them all to Turkey. Turkey already has a major immigration problem. The problem of immigration has increased dramatically in recent times due to Syrian immigrants. Turkey will now become an immigrant warehouse. A lot of people are going to get up, they're going to come here, and we're going to have them because we don't have any re-enactment agreements with most of them, with their own country. In return, the European Union will consider with good intentions whether we will be granted visa ease, a turpentine, a vote if necessary. But, as a matter of fact, the European Union would have to implement visa exemption in the ongoing European Union negotiations from 1963 to today. However, the method and procedure of this resuscitation agreement... is that when you make this deal, the visa exemption must be put into effect. Not so much, he's arranging visas with all the countries he's started accession talks with in the European Union, giving visa exemptions to all the countries he's started to negotiate for, the only exception is Turkey. And in return for that, it looks like we've agreed to this rebuttal agreement. This is a huge mistake. There's also a document of the re-enactment agreement, not alone, but also a road map, which is not subject to the approval of our Parliament. While the Foreign Minister is explaining what the road map is, he says: "This is the legitimate road map, which includes Turkey's reservations, we arrange it according to this. This legitimate road map, which includes Turkey's reservations, means nothing because it is not an agreement. It's a cognitive understanding, a cognitive understanding. So when you read this, you see a series of instructions that the European Union has imposed on Turkey. You'll do these things, you'll do these things. You'll see a series of instructions. That understanding doesn't get in our way. Since it's Covenant, we don't have to approve the road map, but I suggest you read it. I suggest that my friends who know how to read it consider the provisions of the Lausanne Treaty and consider what the national minority is when, for example, there is a directive for national minorities not to see separate selection. I suggest they don't lose sight of the concepts of minorities that are not in the Lausanne Agreement, thus passing through the signature of the Secretary of State of State of State. You will accept the rebuttal agreement, and you will carry it out, and the land will be in great distress, and there is no doubt about it. Speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party, my friend, my colleague, said that the article number 24 is very clear, that if it doesn't work out for us, we will terminate it. Of course, once you've annulled it on paper, would you be able to resume the negotiations with the European Union, or what pressure would you be subjected to? I'm thinking of recommending them to you so you can think about them. This was signed on December 16th. The day after that, Mr. Prime Minister says in a statement in the daily Milliyet on December 17th: "We are not going to be a burden to Europe, we are going to take loads." This is the best description of this agreement. The Prime Minister himself says we're not going to be loaded, we're going to take loads. We're talking around here. As I was saying, Adana MP Logoglu is showing very clearly and very systematically the wrongs; you don't read, you don't look, you don't listen, you make these deals. I'm here to tell you once again that we're all about to go under this burden with this deal from the European Union, that we're all going through it together, and I'm going through the records, I'm going through the transcripts, and I'm going to ask you all to reconsider, even though I know I can't get one more time, and I'm going to ask you all to reconsider. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0175par0049	Thank you, Mr. Korutuk.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0176par0050	Sir, Mr. Lütfü will speak.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0175par0051	Yeah, okay. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Alderman Lütfu Türkkan. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0177par0055	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we've just discussed with the Minister about this law, we've expressed our reservations, we've given some explanations about our reservations. Given these explanations, it means that the law is not a very troubling law, but it's not yet in the spirit of some of our reservations. For example, one is that after the legalisation of this law, Turkey will become a dumpster for refugees in the European Union countries -- perhaps not a proper term, but not an appropriate term. So, the European Union has come through Turkey, or one of its third-world citizens, who have come to their own country, and will say, "This is why it has come through Turkey." Can Turkey return this to its privacy, such as the Customs Act, as a return to its privacy? There's an opportunity to do it with countries he's signed a re-enactment agreement with, but a significant part of the refugees who have gone through Turkey is that we don't have a re-acceptance agreement with countries like Bangladesh, Somalia, Pakistan. I think it is, and I think we signed it tomorrow, and this time the European Convention on Human Rights comes in. Don't the countries of the European Union know how to return them to the country where they come to their privacy, the country where they are citizens? He knows. It only costs one plane ticket. So you take the Somalian guy, you pay for the plane ticket, you send him home. But the European Convention on Human Rights prevents that. Because you're limiting his right to live, he can't send it. In an environment in which the European Union is stuck, I will also bring in Turkey's visa exemption and grant you visa exemption. How could you? Take my refugee garbage here and take it back to your country. Look, Turkey has been going on for years at the gates of the European Union, swallowing its dignity, its pride. Here are the friends we served with in the European Union's Karma Parliamentary Commission. The last time we had a meeting, we had to eat between ourselves, without the President of the European Parliament and the Vice President who invited us. I mean, can you imagine? You're a host, he invites you, he gives you food, but there's no one there. We ate by ourselves. I resigned from the membership of the European Union's mixed Parliamentary Commission in order not to be involved in such a matter. I can't live with such dishonor. I'm Turkish. I'm the grandson of an economist who stood at the gates of Vienna in Europe. I can't stand it any longer when a self-righteous man up there invites us and doesn't respond to this invitation himself. What else does the European Union impose on us? The European Union will provide some funds. He says you're my turf, but I'll give you funds. Turkey's economy, which is so good, has exploded so much, the economy, the currency reserve, the Central Bank. This law states that we need funds from the European Union against accepting refugees. I mean, we need those funds, so think about it financially. Mr. Secretary said what would 2,000 men do? That's right, according to him, he made a number like that. But Mr. Ranger just gave me a number. There are 500,000 refugees going to Europe, and 50% of them going through Turkey. Imagine that 250,000 refugees from Bangladesh, Somalia, African origin come to Turkey every year. Four years, a million people. Look, there are 1 million Syrian people in Turkey. Turkey's demographic structure is being seriously altered without realizing it. We've taken 1 million Syrian refugees in the name of human rights, in the name of Islam, and we're currently holding a million people among us, who have no origin, who have no identity, where they live, what they do, in this geography that is incompatible with the culture of this country. While Turkey is sending its own people abroad looking for bread, we have a million unemployed men in our midst. This is about the dignity of the people living in Turkey, Turkey's security. Who guarantees that these people will not be used at the source of social terrorism in Turkey the day after tomorrow? Who can guarantee us that citizens of these third world countries, who come back from Europe to Turkey the day after tomorrow, will not be used the same way in Turkey? Nobody. You watched it on TV the other day, a travel agent gets busted with a gun, and in broad daylight, two black people get robbed. You may consider it an isolated incident, but as the number grows, you find it difficult to maintain order in a country with a large number of metropolises like Turkey. We're talking about 250,000 people. Four years, there's a million people and a million Syrians. Do you intend to send these Syrians back, Mr. Secretary? Do we have such a plan? Maybe it's not you we're dealing with, but the Commissioner of the Foreign Affairs Commission is there. There are 1 million Syrians. Under what circumstances will they leave Turkey? How are they going to leave? Turkey has no such plan. We just opened the doors. Mr. Oktay Vural just said something very nice: the doors of Turkey are closed. At least here we'll keep a record of the men who came. Turkey says there's no sign of anyone coming in or out. Indeed, Turkey's doors are closed. Here comes anyone from Syria, Iran, Iraq. Turkey is now a habitat for them, a country where they live, but Turkey's conditions and resources are not in a position to accommodate the people from this country, neither are they financially available nor are they physically available. And I repeat my concern that Turkey's demographic structure is being seriously altered. Turkey is a country with elements that make itself up as a Turkish nation. There may be critics who say that changing this demographic structure makes me very uncomfortable. For about 15 years, Germany has been taking serious measures against changing the demographic structure of its own country. In an environment where Germany is concerned, I, a Turkish citizen, should not be too offended by the change of Turkey's demographic structure. The change in Turkey's demographic structure creates an impression that this demographic structure can also be used against Turkey in a number of games that have been played on it. It's not a paranoid doubt, it's a serious assessment. I don't know if you'd agree with this assessment, Mr. Secretary, but please consider this assessment. I've tried to explain to you our reservations about this. I hope you'll write it on the side of your mind, because you're in a hurry to pass the law because the Fule is here. I'm talking about a guy who invited us to dinner in the European Parliament and didn't show up. In order to make a gesture to that Fuele, Parliament has brought back the re-enactment agreement imposed by the European Union among the hard work. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0178par0064	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0179par0068	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are in 554 rows. The Responsibility Convention, international... Notice, the technical, international contracts that come to this House, when we, as all party groups, see the country's interests, we compromise them, but this is different friends. All three parties of the opposition here have put opposition on this contract. The re-enactment agreement is a neoclonianist contract, friends, and I'm making it very clear. Since 1950, Turkey has been on the road to the European Union, the Council of Europe, and has been a country in the process of negotiating so far. Sir, here to ensure visa exemption. Is that possible? This is not how visa exemption is granted. If you want to understand what visa exemption is, you're going to know a little bit about which countries your diplomats are being crushed, how they're being humiliated, how they're being pushed, how they're being challenged, how even your lawmakers with diplomatic passports are being questioned and battered. This cannot be the reason for the opening of chapter 23 and 24 of the chapter in the European Union's negotiation process -- justice, security, and freedom. Yes, Turkey's position is not easy. Turkey currently has over 1 million refugees because of the wrong foreign policy in Syria, over 1 million. Over a million refugees have 250,000 in tents, containers, but the government doesn't know where the others are. Look, be careful, funerals from Istanbul to Ankara, Ankara to İzmire, Aegean Sea, boats and boats on the coast are all the point of strategic crossings on Turkey, such as a bridge from Asia to Europe. But we know that in human trafficking, other than the contracts signed by Turkey in human trafficking, there are provisions with criminal provisions, and in those provisions, when Greece already captures them, Turkey returns them to Turkey, Turkey returns them to Turkey when Italy captures them, Bulgaria returns them to Turkey when it captures them, and there are provisions. Now, you bring it in, you do it with the European Union. Look, there are sensitive organizations in Turkey, NGOs. The Refugee Rights Co-ordination has prepared a 15-page declaration on this issue and has made a very serious point here. These organizations say don't sign this Recycling Agreement. It calls for a non-signation because it will bring terrible obligations to Turkey... And think of it this way: I have 2,700,000 voters. You say -- there will be a presidential election -- your nearly 7 million citizens live in Europe, and their children are there; some have citizenship, some have residence, some have newly married. You're leaving your own citizens there to face a comeback, a comeback. He's coming to Turkey, he's getting married from Anatolia, and when he gets married, he's going to have two children, and in Germany, you're putting them in danger of returning them to Turkey. It has a human rights law, it has an international law, it has a refugee rights law. Now, I'm asking you: Turkey put in the 1951 Geneva Convention, followed by 67. Only those from the West who come with the Lu Protocol can be refugees in Turkey. There is no refugee status for them when they come to Turkey; Kurdish, Turkmen, Arab, different peoples, Azerbaijan -- when they come to Turkey. What kind of discrimination is that, dudes? What age do we live in? So, how does a million Syrian refugees live on your land? If there is no refugee position, no law, how can the United Nations intervene in an issue without refugee law? No. Now, look, these are NGOs; the Helsinki Citizens Association, Human Rights Association, Human Rights Agenda Association, KAOS-GL Solidarity Association with Refugees, Amnesty International Turkey Branch. It is clear that the text of the Reception Agreement, which had previously been completed in February 2011, had been initialized after it gave the green light for the launch of dialogue on this visa exemption. Now, I ask you, you signed the customs union in 1995. When you trade, you pay taxes to the Central Bank of the European Union, and indirectly in the United States, your goods are opened to circulation, which has been taxed elsewhere. Now, you're bugging him, but you're in negotiations, and no one's still taking you. That's something to think about. The European Union is now coming with a project based on security, not democracy, freedom. If you look at this contract, my friends, you'll see something very, very dangerous. If you, for example, took a look at their reservations from the Kingdom of Denmark or from the United Kingdom, even they took a look at the positions of freedom and security and justice. Now, when we look from here, what are you going to do with the Recycling Agreement? The refugees who went to Europe through Turkey said 50 percent of the time, but they're going through 65 percent of Turkey, friends, Turkey is a transit country. And when everyone who goes through Turkey is captured, Turkey will be sent to Turkey and Turkey will be responsible for all its costs. The location of the refugees sent back will be a separate problem in Turkey. Now, how right is it to attach this to a visa exemption? Wrong friends, there's a rule on visa exemptions called reciprocity. Come out and see, for God's sake, your VIP halls have turned into a passing inn. ISIS passes through the VIP hall, El Nusra passes through Al Qaeda, everyone passes from the lower level of the consulate to the upper level. Can you, as a congressman, pass through their VIP lounge? You can't. Who are you going to teach? Pride, honor, great, great economy, great state, that's the story, give it up. You're at the doors in midterms, you're at the gates in circulation, you're at the courts in the European Court of Justice, and you're at the door of a privileged partnership. The reason for this is that the Constitution of September 12 coup is still under rule, that there is no justice in this country, that there is no equal citizenship in this country, that there is no democracy in this country, that the human rights report card is weak, and that you have no right to bring such a burden on this country. There's no point in that. It's useless. Pull this contract. During these crises of the global crisis, in which racism has risen, you first strike the axe at your feet, first remember that your citizens will be re-acquired. The refugees, minorities, Turks, Kurds who leave your country will all remain under this threat and will be in danger of being deported every day without any guarantees. The plague of this will be on the AK PARTY, we warn. Withdraw this contract, think about it a little bit more, think about it a little bit more, talk about it.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0180par0075	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. In the name of the person, the Slap Congressman Reşat Right? No. On behalf of the government, Minister of the European Union Mevlüt Sergeant. Here you go, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0181par0080	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I salute you all. We're negotiating an important agreement in the European Union process. Of course, it's natural to have different views on such an agreement, but what matters here is that it is our duty and the duty of our friends at the opposition party to provide accurate information about the content of the agreement text, as well as some of the figures. On December 16, 2013, the agreement was signed and approved by the European Parliament and the institutions of the European Union. An agreement by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which, hopefully, will be implemented about three years after it is approved today. Why three years? Because there are measures that have to be taken in these three years, there are measures Turkey needs to take, measures the European Union needs to take, especially border security and the fight against illegal immigration. Again, Turkey has steps to take in both passport and internal security, and some steps together will be taken by the European Union and Turkey. This is an agreement that will take place in three years, because all of this work will last for about three years, because it's predicted so. And in the process, the European Union will also transfer funds on the steps Turkey should take, and we will also benefit from these funds. In these three years, the European Union's very valuable speaker, Mr. Korutrk, instructs, Here, do these things. When you look at what he says, it is the greatest desire of all of us to take precautions on the internal security of Turkey. Passport study is already a work by our government. Border security and fighting illegal immigration are a problem for Turkey and a problem for the European Union. So we're taking precautions, and we need to keep taking them; some of them with the European Union are healthier because today countries are not successful in fighting illegal migration alone, and even international organisations have not been successful. That's why this cooperation is important. Now, the concept of the exodus is one of the most controversial issues today. Today, the flow of immigrants or illegal migration is especially unstoppable, unstoppable. And in the next decade, 20 years, what Europe will need most is the arrival of new immigrants in Europe because of old age and depopulation. According to current statistics, the European Union needs migration in order to ensure a sustainable economy and society. Oh, what's the big deal here? Fighting illegal immigration, providing controlled migration. When we look at the number of immigrants already entering the European Union or the figures related to the extradition of illegal immigrants, we see that many of them are in the countries of the European Union for different reasons. Now, as a result of this agreement, after three years, when this agreement comes into effect, visa liberalisation will begin within a reasonable period, so citizens of the Republic of Turkey will have the right to free and visa-free movement. That's not a very few rights. We see here that the European Union does not apply its double standard, the European Union's court decisions. In particular, when we look at the decisions made by the European Court of Justice, our citizens who go for service and to start a business are allowed to go without a visa, but they have been rejected in their cases, especially about our citizens who are going to spend money. Yeah, we're saying it's a political decision, too. In fact, not all European Union countries apply the cases that our citizens have won to start a business or offer services. So the fundamental solution is that all of our citizens have the right to travel without a visa, without discrimination. And that's a very important gain, that's what we all want. We must continue to fight together. Therefore, there is no such thing as this agreement, sir, and then you can rescind it, and you can't. There's no need to argue like that. When we look at this road map that we just called the Legal Road Map, which we've drawn up with the European Union, we've explained one by one what we're going to do, what we can't do, and if the European Union doesn't give the citizens of the Republic of Turkey the right to visa-free travel within a while, we'll dissolve this contract. We've called this contract. We've called it a reasonable period of six months, including all work for us. Therefore, if this is not implemented within six months, we will annul it. Therefore, if the European Union wants to stop the European Union's process because we've dissolved it, it can stop it for any reason. We've already explained to you and to them, on every occasion, that many negotiations with political obstacles have not been opened, especially the chapters of negotiations. There is no violation of the Lausanne Agreement. Again, here we have the same written agreement that the minority issue will be implemented as described in the Lausanne Agreement. We have made our position clear, dear friends. Now, what will Turkey do about those who have been accepted back? First of all, the European Union will be proven that these people have crossed Turkey by Turkey, and Turkey will agree to it. When we looked at the numbers -- for example, Greece and I have an agreement to re-acquire -- for many -- 13,648 -- we admitted that there were illegal immigrants, and only, dear friends, 3,876 people could be extradited. Many have already obtained other rights in this period, and there are courts, including the European Union Court of Justice, which cannot be extradited, and there are different laws in every country, but ultimately, there is no rule here that Turkey must accept that these people have passed through Turkey, and that everyone who has been extradited to Turkey will remain in Turkey, and there is no rule that everyone must remain in Turkey. First, Turkey, again, will continue the geographical constraint, as stated here on this road map, so it will continue the geographical constraint that we put in the 1951 Geneva Convention. When's he gonna lift it? Turkey is the day it joins the European Union. So when these people come to Turkey, if Turkey accepts them, if there are countries that have a re-enactment agreement, we need to return them, and we need to agree with other countries to agree on this, but let's say that they are from any country east of Turkey, we're either returning them to those countries, together with the United Nations Refugees High Commissioner, or in a third country, to become refugees. Turkey continues its reserve, this geographical constraint, dear friends. So, now, shall we send the Syrians? Why did the Syrians come to our country? There's a war out there, there's persecution, there's blood, there's a cruel regime that kills its own people, and there's terrorist groups that come out, and they're ruthless. So, now, should we have left these people in the middle of this conflict, or should we have opened the door to them and kept them in our country now? Which is better in this environment, while there's still instability, while there's war, when there's blood, when there's tears, you go to these people, and you die. I'm saying this in general, dear friends who can't fit in our humanity, who can't fit in our understanding. So hopefully, in the future, there'll be stability...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0182par0094	Mr. Secretary, how will they be sent? It's not a matter of sending it now, so there's been a question of their staying here when they leave, or something like this...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0181par0095	200,000 of them already live in the camp. Let's hope there's stability, trust, Mr. Vural, and when peace comes and stability, we'll do them in good health. After all, dear friends, this Agreement of Recovery and the right of 77 million of our people to travel without visas are both in the interest of Turkey, and therefore important for our European Union process. I'd especially like to ask you, our dear friends, to support us in this matter. I thank you, all of you, with all due respect.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0183par0099	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant. On behalf of Erzincan MP Muharrem Iş? No. Moving on to QA. Our answer-to-question section is ten minutes, and I'm gonna take five minutes of questions, five minutes of answers. Mr. Proposal...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0184par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. When the events began in Mosul, when ISIS took action, Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said that all measures related to Musul have been taken. He must have been taking precautions, so he didn't inform ISIS. There, the consulate officials, security guards and their families were taken hostage. What measures did Mr. Davutoglu take, and what actions did he cause? Many of our citizens have been killed, and there are still prisoners. How long will this captivity continue? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0185par0107	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. Mr. Kaleli? No. Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0186par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister if the re-enactment agreement with these countries has been fully signed for other foreign citizens, especially African countries, who are using our country as a transit country? My second question: Is there another country that has a visa-free travel ban among the candidate countries that are negotiating with the EU? My third question: Is it not contrary to the International Protection Act, which we issued on April 4, 2013? My fourth question is: Is this agreement that Turkey has an obligation to the EU on its freedom of movement, which has already been won under previous agreements? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0187par0116	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0188par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what is the number of immigrants still at large in our country who would be affected by this agreement if it were to take effect? And what is the average number of refugees or illegal immigrants who have used our country as a route to EU countries and will be extradited according to this agreement? Have you ever studied the economic cost of this to Turkey? What's the amount of this cargo? How confident can you be as the state of the Republic of Turkey that the EU has promised on visa exemption? When we take into account the commitments that have been previously made and have not been fulfilled, we will only receive immunity from visas. Do you find it right to bring such a demanding agreement to Parliament? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0189par0122	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0190par0124	Minister, once this bill is approved, will the citizens of the Republic of Turkey be able to enter the European Union via visa exemption? Will he be able to get in when it's approved today? If you say you can't enter in three and a half years, will the European Union, three and a half years from now -- it's important, I quote, undisputed visa exemption? That's what you just said on the stand. Three, if this agreement is approved, will Turkey accept citizens of countries without a re-enactment agreement from the European Union? Four, when you accept these immigrants, when you go to their country, if there's a security threat or a security threat, what are we going to do about these immigrants?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0191par0127	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0192par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in your speech, we're just doing the necessary work on border security and illegal immigration. You said, "Well, I went to the Turkish-Suriye border." I saw there personally that the outpost established in Reyhan for border security was closed by your government. I've got the tapes, the video. You've closed the police station. On the other hand, we're taking precautions on border security. Because you closed down the area, terrorists walked into my country and killed 53 of our citizens in the Reyhan bomb attack. Second, you're saying that this agreement will take effect in three years. So, after it's been approved today, is Turkey under obligation to accept it back as soon as it's published in the Official Gazette? Three years later, visa exemption. However, the obligation to accept it will continue for three years, and in three years, will the European Union recognise or deny visa exemption? Explain that, please. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0193par0133	Thank you, Mr. Original. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0194par0135	Thank you. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will answer Mr. Öner's question about Egypt, Syria and the region in writing. Now, dear friends, if we start with the latest question, Mr. Original Day: The agreement that we are going to approve today will be in effect in three years, and there are measures that must be taken within these three years. We, the European Union, and the steps we're going to take together and...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0195par0138	Isn't there an obligation to take it back today?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0194par0139	No. Recycling will begin in three years, when re-acquired...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0195par0140	Three and a half years later...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0194par0141	Yes, and in six months, visa-free travel will begin in six months.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0195par0142	What's three and a half years, Minister?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0194par0143	We said in three and a half years, there'd be about a visa-free walk-through. Three years from now, the re-enactment agreement will go into effect, and then within six months, we'll have a visa-free walk-through. The European Union will get us into the group of positive countries from the negative to Turkey.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0195par0144	In the meantime, we're not under any obligation to accept it back.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0194par0145	No, it starts in three. Thank you so much for your question. And of course, here, our other friends asked about three years, three and a half years. Likewise, if the European Union does not grant visa-free travel rights within six months, we will cancel it. We told them. We said the reasonable time was six months for us.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0196par0148	But, Mr. Secretary, some of the materials are immediately in effect.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0194par0149	The recycling thing is three years from now, and within six months, the right to visa-free travel must be given to our citizens, and it's true -- today we're dealing with other questions -- and unfortunately the only citizen in candidate countries who has no right to travel without visas is our citizen. And this is a double standard of the European Union, which we are a negotiating country. Especially in Balkan countries, candidate countries have been granted visa-free travel. We support them. Let our brothers in the Balkans get that right, we're not against it, but unfortunately, it's something else to do with Turkey. This, in fact, is another reflection of September 12th, dear friends. After September 12th, when many refugees, especially in countries like Germany, went there and applied to become refugees, then these visa applications came to Turkey. And here, especially with this agreement, we believe the European Union will eliminate this double standard. Will he be responsible for the European Union here, he asked, Mr. Dinçer. Of course, it will bring an obligation to the European Union, and its application... it's a bilateral procedure, and I just told you about the people who were extradited to Turkey -- how many countries, how many countries do you have a deal with? So we don't have a deal with all the countries where immigrants are heavily smuggled out. There are some countries east of Turkey. For example, there's Kyrgyzistan, there's Romania, there's Pakistan, there's Nigeria, there's Yemen, and there's countries north of Turkey. There's Russia, there's Ukraine, there's Moldova, there's Belarus, there's Montenegro, but not all of them. But how do we figure this out? Until we become a full member, dear friends, because we continue to implement geographical restrictions, we can't give refugee status, immigrant status to those immigrants from eastern Turkey; we either return them to their country or work together with the United Nations to settle down with the third countries. A lot of questions have come, Mr. President, and we can't answer all of these right now because time is limited. Each of our friends asked four or five of them, but in general, we answered all the questions, and our other friends...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0197par0153	What are you going to do with a refugee you can't send back for security reasons? We're gonna keep it here?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0194par0154	Dear friends, look, Turkey, the Commission will decide on this. After all, the non-natives, for example, will not return to us, which is in the contract, but we're also approaching human beings in many cases as well as in Syria, and there may be a number of people in our country -- a few or a lot -- who we'll accept for different reasons -- that's not going to cost us more than 77 million, but as a matter of fact, we don't have the burden of Turkey and the burden of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0198par0155	So the European Union isn't being human, and we're being human?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0194par0156	When we compare the European Union with Turkey, we always act more human than the European Union.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0198par0157	Then let's tie them up by being human, let them act human.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0199par0158	So why doesn't the European Union keep it in its own fields, in their own country?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0194par0159	So our struggle with illegal immigrants living in Turkey continues, with border security -- yes, we've always maintained our open-door policy at the Syrian border -- but especially our work on border security in Edirne and other areas is known by everyone, as well as by the European Union.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0200par0160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have stated that you will answer the other questions in writing. Now there's a motion on article 1 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 554 Sequential Republic of Turkey and the 1st Amendment bill for Approvement of Agreement Against Unauthorised Residents Between the European Union and the 554 Sequential Republic of Turkey. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Ali Sarıbaş Haydar Akar Osman Faruk Logoğlu Gürkut Acar Celal Dinçer Ali Özgündün Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0201par0170	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0200par0171	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0202par0172	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0200par0173	Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0203par0175	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, dear friends, this recycling agreement is an agreement that Turkey will accept either if our citizens or those who go from Middle East, Africa, through transit through Turkey, do not comply with the visa requirements or the conditions of their residence. I've just asked the Minister a question, and he says, "This will take effect in three years." Meanwhile, we will do the necessary work on illegal immigration and immigrants regarding border security with the EU, then we will get them back for six months. Sir, again, Mr. Secretary and Mr. Commissioner Volcano Bozır said in his speech the other day: "We will not take back almost every one sent. We'll set up a commission. There, the concerned country will give it back to me by agreeing that if it finds anything Turkish on the person's property, if it finds a receipt for a shopping machine, if it finds a cigarette, it passes through Turkey, it will give it back to me. My commission, no brother, I'm not taking it. I'm not doing the visa exemption deal six months from now. He's going to say, "What's going to happen then?" What will happen to those taken for six months, Mr. Secretary? Hundreds of thousands of immigrants. Now, look, there are over 500,000 immigrants from Syria alone -- 200,000 of them in the camp -- according to some figures. Today, in the West, they've caused serious problems, they're involved in crime, these people and law enforcement forces don't process them, interestingly, they don't deal with people from Syria. From Syria again, we are the guests of human purpose. The terrorists, the terrorists of ISIS, who control the road in Niğde, have martyred Mehmetçik. He said: "These are Turkish soldiers, the infidels are the soldiers of the country, they are the enemies of the infidel country, I have done good deeds by martyring this. Look, what are you going to do with the European country, if this guy goes using it? As soon as you send him to the concerned country, he will be deprived of his freedom or perhaps executed. Since he's going to be executed, you won't be able to return him, and we'll be responsible. Two: Mr. Minister, if our Turkish citizens don't extend their children's residence there for any reason, inform them of the change of address, you approve their acceptance because their conditions of residence have not been met. And they're going to run their lawsuits from here. I mean, you've deported my citizen who's going to deport my concerned country, no, you've wrongfully deported that citizen. And the case he's going to file, which means he's been deported, my own citizen, who's going to come to my country, for as many years as he can get to run the case from here. Mr. Secretary, we already have the right to visa exemption under the 1963 Ankara Convention. Why don't you fight for it? The international courts find our citizens' application justified, and the Court of Justice is justified. Why do you bring such an agreement, which brings our country to its fullest, when you can try this way, when you can drag the European Union on this path? That's why we won't agree to this deal. Minister of Foreign Affairs Davutoglu says in his letter to the European Union Interior Commission on 16 January 2013: "In our talks with you and with other EU authorities, we will be a country of dreams." As we have noted many times, it should be at the same time that Turkish citizens will be granted visa-free travel through the destruction of the embassy, the embassy, the consulate, and Turkish citizens. Why are you coming back from this now? I mean, what happened to you back there? It's supposed to happen at the same time, so we're not a liability. We're arguing to enter the European Union as an equal, honorable member, and we're behind you as opposition, so defend it, support the government. But we're saying that this agreement that you've brought in to offend our honor, that the visa waiver and the re-enactment agreement don't go into effect at the same time, is not appropriate for us. Someone will go, our citizens will go, we will shop in Champszelize, London, Milan, I will eat what he steals from here, I will travel without a visa. We don't want such visa exemptions, we will take back those who have come across the snow mountains and risked their lives and thus reached them. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0204par0187	Thank you, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0205par0189	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit03spe0204par0190	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Acar, Mr. Ayyadım, Mr. Akar, Mr. Öner, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Akova, Mr. Ayman Güler, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Öner, Mr. Pavey, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Kaleli. I'll give you three minutes. [[There's been a check-up with the electronics.]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0204par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 108th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Ill-Y O K L A M A On Article 1, İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz and before the vote of his friends' motion, the roll call was not enough. Now I repeat roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. 3- The European Union's Compliance Commission, Interior Commission and Foreign Commission Reports (1/876) (S. Number: 554) [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Now, I submit the 1st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 1 is accepted. MADDE 2-1) This goes into effect in the history of the Law publication. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Isparta MP Ali Haydar Öner. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Proposal.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0206par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we are facing a new deception and deception by the AKP government. The famous thinker reminds me of the story of Nasreddin Hoxha's wool.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0207par0020	Mr. President, they're coming to the General Assembly, making noise.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0206par0021	If the Recycling Agreement is approved, if applied, the visa will be lifted. I wonder who believes it. Do our members of Parliament really believe that? The return of Brussels on 7 January 2005, with the organization of Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Melih Gökçek, the fireworks were detonated during the day in Kızılay, the date of the talks was celebrated as if a visa had been granted to the EU, and even if the Visa Responsibility Convention had been celebrated at night, the nation would have noticed.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0208par0023	Congressmans, please be quiet.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0206par0024	The 21st article refers to the 24th article. In accordance with Article (3) of Article 24, Turkey will exercise its right to dissolution if this agreement is not carried out according to the agreement. So Fos is out. He's going to be annulled, as the people would call him. We don't have the amount of bills to pay. Turkey's infrastructure is not enough, because in the event of numerous extraditions, where will it be housed in the event of the extradition of citizens of third world countries passing through Turkey? There are many problems for those sent back: they will fight, they will get sick, they will run away, they will have children, there will be problems with getting them into the third country, because with this agreement, the agreement with other countries will be void. Apart from visa exemptions for citizens, there are other problems in the present days. The Prime Minister is about to be granted a visa. He's going to Germany, Merkel and the German press. Don't touch the citizens in Turkey. Don't touch the citizens in Germany. Don't mix them up, don't divide them, they say. Austria is in the same trouble. Aman ha, if the Prime Minister comes, not only will he be troubled by the citizens of Turkey, but also by Austria. Those who consider anger to be the art of speech feel that their power is also overwhelmed by tension. The strategy seems to be: Whether the length of the time is long, whether the EU is disbanded or we give up, our power will continue for another term. Dear lawmakers, if we want to enter the European Union, let's not sign concessions or contracts that we can't afford for visa exemption, and let's not approve of that. If this contract bill is withdrawn, it will be the correct procedure because the European Union does not make these concessions, it does not give up existing rights, it does not give up the rights we have earned with the agreements of Rome and Ankara. The European Union passes through the European Union, through the European Union and the United Nations norms, through the agreement held at the conference in Bangalore, through the Copenhagen Criters, through the Budapest Convention. The Bangalore Convention reveals its jurisprudence. On April 23, 2003, the United Nations Commission for Human Rights advises the Council of Ministers: ▪ Non-dependent and impartial judgment. • Do you have friends? OKTAY VURAL (IMITOR) ▪ Disregarded! What prosecutor is fearless enough to file an indictment? How many judges can decide with their own free will? Security forces were unable to carry out their judicial instruction, and those who carried out their duties were unable to carry out their duties. Copenhagen criteria were adopted on 22 June 1993. Democracy envisions guaranteeing the rule of law, human rights and minority rights. How far can it be applied? The rule of law is over, the law of the superior is enforced by a severe imposition. 13 chapters have yet to be opened with the European Union. Where's the progress? A visa carrot and a recycling bat can't balance that balance, my friends. It's too bad he's considering the travel park process. What are they saying? Turkey assesses that civil society is not perceived as an important and legal denominator of democracy in Turkey. Also, there are Budapest principles for prosecutors on May 31, 2005. Fair, impartial, consistent, quick. Human dignity and rights will be respected. With public benefit, fair balance will be provided between individual rights and general interests. He will be treated without fear, without favor, without prejudice. Without the pressure of individuals, public and media, the task will be carried out by following confidentiality, not being served in certain places, respecting the purity of innocence, taking into account strong doubt and evidence. Are the prosecutors able to do that? We run the judiciary independent of law and execution, respect him, take the judge into consideration as a third man, or under the pressure of government and power, do we take action under his direction? What about neutrality? Where's the truth and consistency? ▪ Judges, like other citizens, have the right to expression, faith, association, and assembly. It is called, can we apply it? Are we able to ensure that everyone is treated equally in front of the courts? There are many other factors, but recently the European Union had to submit over 300 amendments to the European Parliament's report on Turkey this year. GRECO rules envision the investigation of the State Group Against Corruption of the Council of Europe's allegations of corruption and bribery, free of political pressure, transparent and impartial. Mr. Elitaş has just responded to everything, not specifying why he wasn't assigned to the Commission. And he laughed a lot, as if it were an informal matter.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0209par0036	Bulent Arinc gave him his answer.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0206par0037	There's still no commission. I thought you said, "God damn whoever did it." You said, "You'll go to the end." Is that sincerity, is that consistency?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0210par0038	He's an apocalypse now.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0206par0039	Visa reductions, ease and exemptions are known to Montenegro, Croatia, Moldova, and we are not recognized. The dual exemptions have been lifted. We've fallen behind third world countries; Peru, Guatemala, it's applied to Argentina, it's not applied to us. There's a way back from earned rights. The rights to residence will be lifted. Sir, how can he appeal to the judge, who has been extradited without his consent? The agreement is difficult to implement. False statements will also put Turkey in distress, Indian. There will be Pakistanis to be called. The agreement is indefinitely. What does it mean? Governments' job is to protect national interests, friends, to defend citizens' rights, not to cause loss of rights. AKP governments lack this insight and common sense. The trust is not in its right hands. I give my regards to those who try to be worthy of trust.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0211par0042	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Konya MP Faruk Bal. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0212par0046	Thank you. Mr. President, we've heard Mr. Secretary's statement. According to the account, the agreement is being made to use Turkey as a storage country to return some immigrants to its privacy, although the European Union needs the workforce. We can break this deal if we want to, we're making this deal to ensure border security, and I'm undermining our own border security, Mr. Secretary, and listen -- we can do better with the European Union. We were supposed to be a country where power couldn't be tested, we were supposed to be the leading country, we were supposed to be regional quarterbacks. If we have these adjectives, how did we become dependent on the European Union for border security? Why is that the reason for this deal? Now, my dear friends, aside from all the reasons for this agreement, the bottom line is, Mr. Secretary, I don't speak to offend you, but my knowledge, my experience, and the triumph of the National Movement Party say that the European Union is draining the gall over you, which is a fact that it will be a burden on its economy, which will not work for its own economy, it will be a burden on people from all over the world, people from all over the world, people from the European Union voters, to not spend their taxes on them, that's the issue. Where will he go? Most of the immigrants going to the European Union will travel from the south through Bangladesh, Syria, Iraq, Somalia, Egypt and Africa, but most of the kahir are from Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria. Therefore, all of these private immigrants will be returned to Turkey with this agreement. When returned with this agreement, is the tax on choosing the European Union also taxed by our constituent? Why should we be forced to spend our tax money on the citizens of our own country where the European Union doesn't spend it? There's no answer to that question. The answer to that question is deception and deception, but we will also provide visa exemption. The European Union will grant us visa exemption within six months of this agreement. Minister, I have to repeat the historical information that everyone knows about your Ministry. Our adventure with the European Union began on July 31, 1959. At the time, it was the date he was returned from his coal-science partnership to the European Economic Community. The 1963 Agreement, then the Roman Agreement, among them protocols, additional protocols; all of which the European Union got what it wanted, gave Turkey hope in the future. None of these hopes have come true. As in the Customs Union, as in 2005, only fireworks and daylight lanterns were detonated in Turkey's skies. Now, you know that the Customs Union Agreement prevents Turkey from making bilateral foreign trade agreements with foreign countries. Turkey's property cannot be sold to third countries without the permission of the European Union. If granted permission, the European Union will settle here commercially, and in two years, you'll be able to make a deal. Turkey's commercial products travel all countries of Europe as far as the European Union allows, but the goods of those products cannot enter across the border. Why? There's a visa. Now, we're going to lift this visa. You say. This visa will not be lifted, Mr. Secretary, this visa will not be lifted by the European Union. We will not take the European Union as a member; this is how we say we will not take it, how we will tell it. The men are struggling, but you want to continue to be deceived as a party used to being deceived and deceived.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0213par0051	No cheaters, no cheaters...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0212par0052	France changed Turkey's constitution years ago, considering its membership in the European Union. France, if Turkey accepts all conditions and accepts all sanctions of the European Union, will France go to the referendum when the time comes for membership, shall I or shall I not take it to the European Union? I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: shall we get a decision from France? If Greece makes a similar one, would Greece make such a decision? Why are we cheating on each other? Why are we cheating on each other and...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0214par0053	Every candidate country has signed this, and you're talking without knowing it!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0212par0054	...why are we making an effort to gather the bile of the European Union from the tax-paid value of the Turkish nation into a warehouse country of Turkey? The matter is clear, plain and simple. The issue is that the European Union, Bangladesh, Somalia, Iraq, Syria, Egypt, Libya, Tunisia, Morocco, and those it considers to be bile, will be mailed to Turkey, and we will have to feed them in Turkey. You're saying: "We send them back, we send them back. You can't send them back." Why can't you? Because the institutions of the European Union are in your way. The Human Rights Court is in your way. The United Nations Convention on Refugees stands in your way. Which one of the people in this country has safety? Is there any in Bangladesh? Is there any in Somalia? Is there any in Iraq? Are there any in Syria? Is there any in Egypt? These men will say, "Yes, I came here from there -- to Turkey -- according to this agreement." I have no security in Syria, you can't send me. How will you send me, Minister? How will you send me? There's no way. You can't send it under any circumstances, as it happens, it stays here. My dear friends, in the second chapter of the matter, the truth is that before the train to Berlin, 1963, from Vinegar, the Turkish citizens, who felt fortunate, went through a number of controls as they went there as workers. Those checks were a medical check-up. His head, teeth, eyes, throats, and throats will be examined, and if he received a full - health report, he would go to Germany as a worker. That's the kind of understanding we're dealing with. I'd like to give you a second example of this: when the Aleppoce massacre took place, when people were killed by gas in Aleppoce, many immigrants from northern Iraq came to Turkey, over 100,000. What country of the European Union has been cured of Turkey's problems? What country of the European Union contributed to this problem with Turkey? I'm telling you two countries, maybe you don't have one in mind: one in France. 500 teenagers -- not old -- Miss Mitterand came in, had her check her teeth, took 500 of them, which were perfectly healthy. There, he trained and sent it to the organs of the French state, which his own intelligence agencies approved. That's what France does. America took 5,000 of them. They took the young, so they did a health check. The people who were taken were also trained under CIA control. They are the ones who are in northern Iraq today, and they are the ones who are going to Kerkuk today, and they are the ones who demand independence today, and tomorrow we will declare independence. That's the European Union's view. Minister, I don't want to doubt your patriotism, but don't be deceived, don't be deceived, don't fool people as AKP, don't fool people. This will bring a worse result than the customs union on Turkey's back, burdening financial burdens. This will cause serious social problems in front of Turkey. What will a person do in Turkey that will be integrated into this society? Will the person who comes get a job, can he get some food, can he fix his health problems? Here, the Syrians are in front of us. Here you go, 10 meters from here, 20 meters from here, at a crossroads, the Syrian children are raising money. Prostitution went up, theft went up, mugging went up. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As you bring more than a million Syrians, you now close the doors to the Turks in Tuzhurmatou, in Kerkuk, in Musul, in ISIS, and between the hepmergen you close the border to Turkmen, opening new expenses from the budget of Turkish people, which Europe sees as bile.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0215par0063	Thank you, Mr. Honey. İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal on behalf of him. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0216par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Of course, when you say the recycling contract, in terms that all our citizens understand...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0217par0070	But it can also be recycling!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0216par0071	Just like that, just like that. I mean, the state of the Republic of Turkey is going to be the depository of immigrants. In terms of storage... which means the Turkish Republic will be used as an immigration warehouse... as a depository for immigrants. Sure, what's the intention here in the immigration warehouse? As a result, we see its practices, from Syria. Here, in Hatay, in Gaziantep, in the Church, in Şanlıurfa, in the people who are there, what they bring in socially, culturally, economically, is really what they take, you really need to see. And why was this imposed on us by the European Union? Sir, we'll get you into the European Union, believe us. We'd like to send you immigrants, illegals, or expired. Mr. Secretary, in the Annan Plan on Cyprus to the state of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, if you say yes, would we take you to the European Union? And as a result, even though the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus rejected South Rumia and said yes, unfortunately, they didn't take them to the European Union and took them out of the European Union and even took them into the European Union as a gesture to the Southern Greek Republic. I mean, for him, international relations are in the lead. What is the interest of the state of the Republic of Turkey when we look at it from the national interests of the country, and what is the interest of the European Union? I'm a member of the Human Rights Commission. When we went on a trip to Italy, the Italian Parliament told us that we thank the Parliament of the Republic of Turkey. Indeed, you are signing the contract concerning these immigrants, and we are getting rid of the immigrants. What is it? Now they say to the foreigner who first set foot in Italy from abroad: "Be careful here, there is theft, there is pickpocketing, and don't even enter some streets because it threatens security and security and economics. It's not the right thing for you to use the state of the Republic of Turkey as an immigration warehouse. This, of course, brings burden to the state of the Republic of Turkey, making the European Union quite comfortable, more advantageous. So if the European Union doesn't take advantage of this, does it? He won't. In the same way, let's do this: Let's call off the Customs Union Convention. Can you dissolve it? Let's do it mutually, then. Let's call off the Customs Convention, and accept that, and let the visa thing go into effect immediately and immediately. And you don't put the visa into effect right away, you say, three years later, and in this respect, it's really troubling. So, who benefits from this deal? This agreement is in the interest of countries who belong to the European Union, not in the interest of the state of the Republic of Turkey. This contract gives European Union countries broad authority, unfortunately there is no jurisdiction, no jurisdiction in favour of the Republic of Turkey. So, obviously, the smuggler, the immigrant warehouse, will be the state of the Republic of Turkey. So, what area are you going to keep it in? What are they doing in Europe now? In good economic states, they have immigrants there in parallel with their economic situation. If you keep them all in Turkey, like Şanlıurfa, like Kilis, like Gaziantep or Hatay, you're destroying the economy of those provinces. In this regard, it's really something to think about. Just as this Customs Union Convention has been a pain in the ass in our country, this contract has brought a second plague to the country, a burden to our country. Thank you all, my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0218par0082	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Gaziantep MP Ali Şahin... Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0219par0085	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 2 of the Dair Legislature, that the Agreement Against the Responsibility of those who reside between the Republic of Turkey and the European Union is appropriate. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation. Dear MPs, since we've started negotiations, especially when I hear what our friends from the opposition have told us about Syrian asylum seekers, their lives, their possessions, their virtues, those innocent people who have thrown themselves into the borders of Turkey, I'm just saying, God will not turn anyone into the mercy of the oppressors. Dear friends, first of all, it's important to point out that I think it's a flaw to consider this agreement as a resuscitation agreement, and that it's important that it be evaluated together with a visa exemption agreement that we can consider simultaneous.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0220par0088	There's no such exemption in the deal.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0219par0089	From that point of view, since the 1950s, I believe the European Union should be considered a crucial turning point in our journey. Dear friends, Turkey is not really a country that needs the door of Europe, such as a number of anti-Turkey, a particular perception that Turkey's hostile environments want to create, or some perceptions that friends of the opposition have created here. I say this, as a member of the European Union's Integration Commission, again, as Vice President of the Turkish-EU Karma Parliamentary Commission, as the President of Internal Affairs, Security and Justice Commission at the Parliamentary Assembly of the South East European Union. I'd like to illustrate this with an example: About five or six months ago, the ECR Group from the European Parliament group held a visit to Turkey. I'm a member of the Gaziantep MP, and our friends from the European Parliament in Nizip have arranged a three-day visit to our camp. When they saw the Syrian people in the camps, our services to our Syrian brothers, they thanked Turkey, and they praised us that there were some of the best camps they had ever encountered in all the camps around the world. This is a matter of pride and honor for Turkey, which is the determination. During those visits, a number of ECR MPs, our European Parliament member friend, asked me, "Ya, we -- the European economy is losing altitude in the process of losing altitude, in the process of narrowing down. Why is Turkey so insistent on joining the European Union? As our economy narrows down so much, as it goes down, as it loses altitude, Turkey's economy becomes a challenging, resistant economy. I told them you might be losing altitude, your economy might be losing altitude. We share a common geography with the European Union above all else, a common history, including tensions, conflicts. When you lose altitude, you need strong arms to hold you down, strong hands. That's why we want to enter the European Union. Whether you accept it or not, when you look at the economic indicators, we all see how clear it is. Dear friends -- actually time is short, and it's not easy to fit a lot in five minutes -- we have to accept the fact that Turkey is a gateway to a rich world that opens to Europe. We always have to face such migrations, legal and illegal migrations. We're always dealing with this kind of migration whether we sign this agreement or not. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is wise to perceive this agreement as a boost to our ability and ability to strengthen the capabilities of our public institutions, which are only concerned with a stronger border management, a stronger visa policy, and our border management. I hereby salute you all with respect. I also want to pay my respects for listening without too much interference. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0221par0098	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Agreement on Responsibility of the 554-Selected Republic of Turkey and those who are trespassing between the European Union is Approved. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Haydar Akar Osman Faruk Logoğlu The Law is carried out simultaneously with the signing of a free movement agreement with the European Union. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0222par0108	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0221par0109	You don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0223par0111	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0221par0112	Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0224par0113	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we are here today to discuss the Fallback Bill of 554 rows. Of course, my friend, the Istanbul MP, just told me to recycle, but the name of the law is re-acceptance. In fact, it's not much of a slip in the tongue. When you say "recycle," it reminds me of a word where things like this are being reassesssed. But, when you look at it, when you make this deal, it won't be any different than that, Turkey will be transformed into exactly what my friend said it would be. Before we get into it, I'd like to remind you of a date. This date is December 18, 2004, ten years ago. Minister, do you remember December 18, 2004? Here, I used to say to the minister before you, every time I took this stand, "The minister in charge of not entering Europe." I'm not going to tell you this, I hope you'll do good work, do good work, do what you have to do to get into Europe. But when I look at this law, when I look at it, I see that you have not done so, and that you have surrendered yourself to Europe. For those of you who can't remember that date, at that time, you were setting off fireworks in the square of Redbear during the day. Why were you blowing up these fireworks? We entered the European Union. You were blowing it up, so you created a perception on society, and Turkey entered the European Union that day because of your fireworks. Ten years have passed, and have we entered the European Union? Of course we didn't go into the European Union. We didn't join the European Union, so what do we do now? As in the Customs Union Agreement, we make an agreement that we will reject much later, making Turkey an immigrant warehouse of the European Union. You say here, with a hoax, that when Turkey becomes an immigration warehouse, we will use European funds and get visa exemptions, you create a perception that there has been a visa exemption agreement with this agreement, which is a completely false perception. Then what's the truth? To tell you the truth, one, with this deal, there's no visa exemption, there's no visa. Two, immigrant workers and their families have some assurances in the country they were found in before they were deported. And with this deal, these guarantees disappear. The most affected are the Turks living in Europe. And the Turks will be sent back quickly, regardless of the conditions for human rights. The visa exemption will be reconsidered in three and a half years. And again, when you look at it, as the European Union has made decisions before, it will reassess us and bring visa exemptions, and none of us will have a chance to use the visa. Three: When those with legal residence in Europe later lose their position, they will be included in this agreement and deported. After making these reminders, I'd like to tell you a little bit about the big picture that Mr. Commissioner here praised. He said that when he came here to the stand, you couldn't see the big picture. Now, I'd like to share this picture with you. So, we're in the European Union, Mr. Commissioner Volcano, and we can't see this big picture? Are we in? We couldn't get in during your 12 years of government.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0225par0124	Thanks to you, we couldn't get in.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0224par0125	Again, you said that the visa has been lifted from 70 countries, that we cannot see this great picture. Now, I want to ask you right now: if I say five countries, five countries on visas, none of you can count five countries in a row, because you've removed visas from many countries we don't know who you are, even from countries we don't know your name. I want to see the big picture again, the first time in your administration, in your reign, the Turkish soldier was put in a sack, and I want to see this great picture. I wonder if it hasn't been passed. Again, you mentioned the big picture. Israel shot and killed nine Turkish citizens in international waters, but you claim we didn't see the big picture. Again, an oil deal was made with Israel during your rule. Who did it? Southern Cyprus did it. You sent Piri Reis. You said it was a cause of war. I'm trying to see the big picture, and I can't see the big picture here again. I'm looking at your big pictures again, and I'm looking at the big picture that you've created in Turkish foreign affairs, and I'm seeing that Syrian fighters have dropped the Turkish fighter plane. I'm looking at the big picture again, your final act, a consulate occupied. Although this is no different than invading Antalyai, Istanbul, and Kopeli, in the land of Turkey, I look at this great picture, and I see that you haven't moved a muscle. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm saying the whereabouts of his consul, the whereabouts of his employees, are unknown. And it means we're against this agreement, and I'm paying all of you respect. This is the big picture. This is the big picture.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0226par0135	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. MADDE 3. - (1) The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 3. Here you go, Mr. Dinçer.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0227par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable lawmakers, I have made a commitment to ratification of the Reception Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the European Union on Article 3 of the Law Bill. I salute your high council. Migration is a major event throughout human history, but it's also a great drama. The hardships of wars, diseases, economic crises always create migration. This bill includes those who emigrated from their own country for political, economic and social reasons. With this law, it is possible to return to countries where people who have entered the territory of one of the countries that belong to Turkey and the EU are now citizens of those who are here or who do not provide the conditions for their residence or who no longer have. This agreement includes citizens of the third country who have left a entity country and migrated to another country, not only to the entity citizens. That's where the real trouble begins. The situation of our borders has been clear for the past four years. Unfortunately, our borders are back to the inn. In our country, which has three sides of the sea, the number of third-country citizens trying to cross sea routes to other countries is increasing day by day. In contrast, in our country, there are not enough measures against illegal immigration, open door policy is being followed. This is where the fundamental problems of our agreement with the European Union are gathered. As it is known, on December 16th, we signed the re-enactment agreement we discussed, and at the same time, we signed a road map for visa exemption with the EU. The signing of this agreement is said to be an automatic and standard requirement for the 24th chapter, titled Justice, Freedom, Security, and is intended to be given the impression that Turkey has no other options. The AKP has made a serious and grave mistake by agreeing to the rebuttal agreement without enough discussion. The talks were not included in the text of the agreement to reflect our country's geographical status, its reservations in the context of international contracts. The AKP government has not insisted on this, but has conducted a failed negotiation process. On the other hand, the connection between a re-enactment agreement and a visa is actually a link established and imposed by the European Union. This connection has no place in Turkey-European Union partnership law. Some of the terms of the extradition agreement are against Article 22 of the United Nations Conventions on Basic Human Rights, where Turkey is a party. The clause, which provides some assurances to immigrant workers and family members in the countries in which they were found before being deported, contradicts the provisions of the re-enactment agreement that irregular immigrants will be deported without delay. European countries want to do what they can't do using Turkey as a subcontractor. That's the gist of it. In the meantime -- Mr. Minister has also announced -- that only the Turkish citizens of Turkey have a visa-free travel ban on candidate countries that continue negotiations with the European Union. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, the question to be answered is: What does Turkey get from the European Union with this agreement? In other words, is the agreement an obligation to the European Union on the freedom of movement, which Turkey has already earned under previous agreements? The answer to that question is very important. Let me answer that question: it's a huge no. There is no obligation to this agreement, there is only one expression of goodwill. The rebuttal agreement has not been discussed, regardless of its responsibilities for Turkey, its financial and administrative burdens, and its human size. Our government and citizens will again bear the burden of the human tragedy caused by an irregular migration due to the return of our borders to the wrong policies of power. The burden that we have committed to this agreement, the burden that we will experience in the extradition of third-country citizens, will be paid by taxes that we will spend on guest status until we return it. I'd like to ask the Minister: Why didn't you sign a full re-enactment agreement for these countries, especially for African citizens, who came to our country intensively and used our country as a stepping stone in transition to other countries? As it will be remembered, as the negotiations begin, the AKP's ruling said visa exemption would first be granted, and then the re-enactment agreement would be signed. But now, in practice, it's the opposite. Then you changed your attitude, signed two deals at the same time, and yet you put in a clause that said that the re-enactment agreement would take place sooner than the visa exemption. In other words, as a government, you couldn't stand the impositions, you couldn't protect the interests of Turkey. However, the former European Minister tried to present the start of the visa exemption dialogue as a success without mentioning the re-enactment agreement. Although the real situation is completely reversed, it's as if our citizens are now entering the European Union without a visa. Unfortunately, power has misled the public in this regard, as in many matters. A similar selling of dreams in Turkey-EU relations -- our friend Haydar Akar just announced -- had happened ten years ago. In 2004, the dream of our membership in the European Union was celebrated with fireworks launched during the day. But what started was an open-ended negotiation. In the past ten years, no progress has been made in joining the European Union, even those who supported the AKP (AKP) with the promise of European Union membership ten years ago realized that open-ended accession was a domestic policy material and withdrew its support from the AKP. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have failed and failed to maintain the power, the re-enactment agreement, the visa negotiation process, Turkey's rights and interests. The government is deceiving the public with its propaganda. The government has reached an agreement with Turkey that will burden Turkey with heavy obligations in the context of social economic and security. With this agreement in effect, Turkey is uncertain of how many countries in the world, how many millions of immigrants will arrive. Turkey will turn into an immigrant camp for illegal immigrants to Europe. The agreement on whether to return irregular immigrants to Turkey by the European Union to the source countries is uncertain. It is also possible to sum up the burdens imposed on our country: the responsibility to prevent migration and migration is given to Turkey by agreement. The European Union has the right to send immigrants to Turkey before the agreement is adopted, and they have the right to send back even those who emigrated five years ago. I also notice that since this time will begin from the date of learning, they will be able to send back a person who has lived in the country of the European Union for fifteen years. The agreement provides Turkey with huge obligations for Turkish citizens, because we also provide the European Union with the obligation to take back all illegal Turkish citizens. The agreement brings big obligations to Turkey in terms of illegal immigrants. The number of illegal immigrants is expressed in hundreds of thousands, indicating that 900,000 illegal immigrants were captured between 1995 and 12 years ago, the size of those numbers will emerge. Dear friends, the agreement also has social impacts on Turkey. Among other effects of financial size: illegal marriages will increase, children's brides will increase, rape cases will increase, health problems will increase, violence against women and children will increase rapidly, social workers will increase rapidly. This agreement treats Turkey as a third-world country, not as an EU candidate country -- not even a neighbouring country. It's a recent treatment of the Ottomans, and it's a domillion treat to the Ottomans, which is what the heifer is doing to the Ottomans. Mr. President, the problem of immigration is the European Union's problem, and the European Union must solve it itself. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This unfair situation is not acceptable in any way, which is why we do not see this agreement in Turkey's interests and that we will vote against it, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0228par0159	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kütahya MP Alim Ik... [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0229par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been sworn in by my Group on Article 3 of Law Bill 554, which is currently in session. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, this bill is intended for Agreement on Responsibility between the Republic of Turkey and the European Union. As the bill is named, we are talking about an agreement that demonstrates Turkey's obligations in the process of sending illegal immigrants to the European Union back to the countries where they came from. So, until the last year of the 12 years of Justice and Development Party governments, an agreement that hasn't been signed in 11 years -- I hope, in the last year -- was signed by the Foreign Commission and other units of our country one day before the start of the 17th and 25 December bribery and corruption operations. In the end, immediately, on 5 February 2014, the Foreign Commission meets, and today, as of last week, the Supreme Assembly's General Assembly is on the agenda. Dear lawmakers, many of my friends who have worked together in this Parliament for nearly eight years remember that this is the first time we have witnessed an international agreement that has come to the Assembly General Assembly at such a speed. Then there's something here. Who gets what out of this? Why did the EU recently sign this agreement that it had not previously signed, or why did the government have to sign it? We need an answer to that.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0230par0167	The Great Middle East Project.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0229par0168	So why did the Co-Chair of the Great Middle East Project, Prime Minister of this country, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, agree to this agreement, and why did this Commission discuss it quickly and bring it here, despite the opposition harms and the inconveniences of previous highly valued speakers? For him, this recently became a country whose agenda was set during the AKP, not the state of the Republic of Turkey, but also one of its concrete examples. The EU imposes, Parliament approves; we can't possibly accept such a thing, precious MPs. I speak to the esteemed lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party: "Just as today, if everyone does not take good care of those who sign the Customs Union on time and say good things to you tomorrow, no citizen of this country will say good things to you. Because we asked Mr. Minister: how many citizens of other countries will be extradited to the state of the Republic of Turkey from the start of this agreement, and how much money will we spend on them, and how much will this cost? They have never been answered. It's in writing, we're waiting. Dear lawmakers, the state of the Republic of Turkey, which has become beyond its borders, has no chance of controlling anyone who will be smuggled back from these borders, especially the state of the Republic of Turkey, which has turned its borders to the southeast. We sign this to ensure the safety of the border, and we want to get it through here. It doesn't make sense because of the words. Today you cannot interfere with the intervention of the PKK terror organization from within one province of our own country, you remove the Turkish Armed Forces' authority from here, you take the authority to intervene, you instruct the law, you cannot interfere with the PKK terrorist organization within your own borders, and then you turn the country into a depository of other people who are not able to adapt because they have come from other countries as a gallbladder. This agreement, therefore, is a very dangerous and very important agreement to impose on lawmakers who have approved it for many years. That's why we don't think it should be allowed. On the other hand, the average cost of extradition by Greece to the country where each of these people came from is 1,100 euros per person, according to statements quoted in this report, on the other hand, from 141,000 illegal immigrants seized on the borders of the European Union in 2012. If these figures are correct and more than a third of the people from other countries who are illegal to EU borders are going through Turkey, what does this mean, if the re-enactment agreement with these countries is not signed by our country, about 55-60,000 immigrants will be sent back to Turkey each year, and Turkey will have to pay the price in the future. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, the costs we pay to refugees who come to our country because of the incidents that have occurred at our border are obvious. Still, when the ministers of the AKP's administration of this country have come to this parliament, for example, in the past three years, how much money we've spent on the Syrian, where, what we've done, and we can't even say, what number of countries we don't know will be next, what dangers we don't know, what terrorists will be returned to us -- just because we understand from what Mr. Minister's explanations, we approve of a visa exemption that we hope will start three and a half years from now. Dear MPs, the European Union, they don't want to welcome you, the state of the Republic of Turkey, to themselves. So how can we agree to such a dangerous agreement, and how can we vote here, based on a promise that has not been made to the EU, which has not yet fulfilled any of its promises? So we think it would be much better for him to be reassessed and withdraw from the agenda of this House. Dear lawmakers, it is a consequence of the failure of the AKP government to agree to such an agreement, unfortunately, in the difficult situation in which Turkey has recently fallen into position as a warehouse country with this agreement. The bride, together, will bring the state of the Republic of Turkey to its power in solidarity, let's call it no. If you sign this today, a week from now, they'll put something else up to you. Because it's not coincidental that AKP has agreed to this agreement at such a time recently, quickly, especially in the last six alms, when corruption and bribery operations are on the agenda; the AKP has become a government that has been forced to do so and has approved it. Come, save yourself from this impression. Therefore, let's not agree to this agreement. As the National Movement Party, I declare that we will not approve such an agreement, and I share with you that we will vote against the bill in question. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0231par0179	Thank you, Mr. Light. In the name of the person, Muk MP Faruk Ilk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0232par0183	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the 3rd Amendment of the Dair Law Bill that the Agreement on Responsibility between the Republic of Turkey and the European Union is appropriate. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, re-enactment agreements, as you know, are agreements to establish a legal basis for the return of illegal citizens to other countries in order, fast, safe, and worthy of human dignity. Reception agreements, which play a deterrent role in illegal immigration, are also an effective tool to encourage countries to take measures against illegal migration. Our country's geography, which has an important geopolitics between Asia and Europe, is severely subject to migration due to the difficulties surrounding us, and is also used as a transit route by citizens of economic and politically unstable countries in eastern Turkey. The obligation to fight illegal immigration to Europe via our country has forced us to develop close cooperation with the European Union. We believe that cooperation with the European Union will have a deterrent effect on the negative consequences of illegal immigration traffic affecting our region. We are considering that the rebuttal agreement is an effective method in this context. Mr. President, as you know, our EC Party governments have launched studies on the establishment of visa exemption with neighbouring and environmental countries, where our political relations have recently reached strategic dimensions, our economic and commercial relations have gained depth, and especially our strong historical, cultural and human ties. In this framework, the work on visa exemption is adopted as a joint process of rescinding the work of the visa exemption agreement, and the work is carried out together. Dear friends, it is not true that the treaty of re-enactment of the European Union has been imposed on our country on a mandatory basis and has been signed unconditionally by our power. According to the historical process, the Turkey-European Union re-enactment agreement, which was signed with the European Union and discussed with the General Assembly today, was proposed to Turkey for the first time by the European Union in 2003. The proposal for the European Union's re-accession agreement was called off in March 2004 by the Foreign Ministry in May 2005, following the European Commission's lack of sensitivity to Turkey's sensibilities and the stance that the European Commission's retribution agreement would bring to Turkey's concerns due to its 4th round of talks in December 2006, and was finally signed after the 2011 talks on the agreement reached on Turkey's visa liberalisation dialogue on Turkey on 16 December 2013. As it turns out, the agreement was carefully studied and signed at the end of a ten-year process to protect our country's interests. Dear friends, it is important for us to take this opportunity to start a direct visa liberalisation dialogue, especially before it is approved as a visa facilitation agreement. The goal of the opening visa liberalisation dialogue is to provide a Schengen visa exemption for all our citizens. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish that the bill we hope to uphold would be a blessing, and I salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0233par0195	Thank you, Mr. Light. Nevşehir MP Abu Bakir Secretider. Here you go, Mr. Undercover.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0234par0199	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers have taken a solemn pledge on Article 3 of the Act 3 of the Act on the ratification of the agreement between our state and the European Union on the resumption of the unauthorized residence, which I hereby salute you all. Our country is determined to deal with its unregistered migration flow because of its geography. The work continues to be signed with the source and transition countries of the re-enactment agreements that regulate the swift and human dignity of illegal immigrants on the legal grounds. In 2012, Bosnia and Herzegovina, in 2003, Moldova in 2012, Nigeria in 2011, Pakistan in 2010, Romania, the Russian Federation, Syria, Ukraine, Yemen and Greece again agreed to re-enactment in 2001. According to numbers of irregular immigrants crossing through Turkey to the European Union, 57,025 in 2011 and 35,224 immigrants in 2012 appear to have crossed from our borders to European countries. The opposition, in particular, revealed that the numbers alleged on this bench were wrong. Thus, the allegations that illegal immigrants will be automatically returned to Turkey by 28 European countries and millions of immigrants will flock to Turkey are also unrealistic. In addition, Turkey's geographical withdrawal from the 1951 Geneva Convention on the legal status of refugees is important to us at this point. With the same understanding, the European Union's re-enactment agreement talks were concluded in January 2011, in a bid to launch the process that would result in visa exemption for our citizens. At this point, it was agreed that an acceptable road map for the visa exemption would be given to us and that we would sign a re-enactment agreement with the EU (EU) on 16 December 2013, and that agreement was adopted in Ankara. However, it is important to point out that no additional legal obligation is coming to our state with a resuscitation agreement. The Foreign and International Protection Act, which was adopted last year to improve its legislation in line with the EU acquish, is also helping as an important road map for us at this point. Honourable lawmakers are criticised for Turkey's becoming European countries' immigration depository with the signing of the agreement at the top of the most disputed issues under the rebuttal agreement. Turkey, however, will be obliged to renegotiate illegal immigrants who have been certified into the European Union using Turkish territory. The illegal return of an immigrant to a European Union country to Turkey must be proven with concrete documents stated in the agreement that this person recently entered into European Union territory through Turkey. Given what we've taken on in the terms of the extradition agreement, it's an advantage for us to be paid by countries that send extradition costs for fugitives to be returned in general terms. Honourable lawmakers, as Turkey, we are a country that has fully fulfilled our responsibility for visa liberalisation. Furthermore, we are relieved by the unilateral right of dissolution of our country's re-enactment agreement if visas are not granted within a reasonable period of time. One of the main benefits of this agreement is Turkey's ability to investigate border security with EU funds before accession, iPA assistance. So the latest technology will be used with the help of the European Union to ensure our border security, which is the goal. He will remove an important obstacle before the freedom of travel of our people, the Freedom of Visa Dialogue, the Covenant Text and the Recitation Agreement, I wish that the good and good luck of our country, and I salute you all with it.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0235par0209	Thank you, Mr. Undercover. Mr. Vural has entered the system. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0236par0212	I had a brief request, but the answer came. Mr. Secretary said that the contract will take effect three years after the signing, but the 24th article says it will immediately take effect in terms of countries with a re-enactment agreement, so it will be implemented immediately. Therefore, it will not be implemented in three years, but it will be immediately implemented in the rebuttal agreements. This negotiating framework document says it will implement the Schengen acquisitor as well as Turkey's participation in the European Union, as it did in the 15th paragraph. However, the decision on control at the border for Turkey will be issued only after a check-up on Schengen. In a way, Turkey also accepts control at the border. So once we get into the European Union, border control won't be gone. For that, we'll need a new assessment. I wanted to share these. Thank you. Just the 60th article, sir. Mine wasn't a question-answer.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0237par0217	It wasn't a question-answer, that's all you wanted to say. Thank you. So there's a motion on the matter, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Agreement on Responsibility of those who are trespassing between the United States and Turkey's 554 ranked Republic of Turkey in the United States is in accordance with the 3rd Amendment bill. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Haydar Akar Osman Faruk Logoğlu The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey rules these laws. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0238par0229	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0237par0230	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0239par0231	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0237par0232	Here you are, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0240par0234	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the 3rd Amendment of Bill 554, which rules that Turkey will receive what the European Union is calling restitution. I salute you. My dear friends, for a long time Turkey has been suffering from the corrosion of the basic qualities of the Republic of Turkey, the corrosion of constitutional principles, and the abandonment of Turkey's fundamental foreign policy foundations. The Justice and Development Party is dragging power into a abyss not only in domestic policy but also in foreign policy. As the AKP is stuck in domestic policy, it makes concessions in foreign policy to save the day, to bring heavy burdens to Turkey in the long term to prolong power's life, to pay heavy bills, to sign agreements, business troops. This Recycling Agreement that we're meeting is a continuation of this, and it's an extension, which is obviously going to be very heavy invoices for Turkey. But what will Turkey gain from it, it's unclear. Our friends, the speakers who were just moments ago, told long stories, and wrote to the opposition: What will Turkey gain from this agreement? Turkey will become the European Union's backyard and remain in Turkey, which the European Union does not want. And 76 million people will pay for it, the Turkish people. It's impossible to accept, my dear friends. Go to the bus station in our southern provinces, even Ankara. There are thousands of Syrians whose numbers we don't know. The Prime Minister was complaining yesterday that the United States of America did not keep its word, that it did not send the help needed for the Syrians. The Prime Minister is complaining himself. If you try to mix their business with the support of the imperialist countries instead of getting along with your neighbor, they'll make you pay the bill. It's not just a financial invoice. Look, my dear friends, I've told you before: if the territorial integrity of Iraq and Syria breaks down, so will Turkey's territorial integrity. Turkey must be very careful. But the developments in the region have shown that it can't be read correctly. There's a terrorist organization called ISIS, and it's making a mess, but Turkey doesn't know. Our deep foreign policy is very successful! Foreign operations official National Intelligence Agency, all sleeping on their feet. He couldn't see how a terrorist organization could become so powerful, that a country in which there was a civil war, much less Iraq, could invade some areas. Only the White State Department, the White MIT, could not see it and could not see it. These institutions need to answer immediately. Both the Secretary of State and the Undersecretary of MIT must resign immediately. It's not enough. The Prime Minister should also apologize to the public and resign. The Prime Minister is responsible for all of this, but we can only expect such behavior from those with virtues. 301 workers die, but there's no political responsibility. There's a train wreck, only the mechanics are responsible. With that understanding, Turkey will continue to suffer losses, my dear friends. Like the customs union agreement, the rebuttal agreement will impose heavy burdens on Turkey. The customs union bill for Turkey is open for $200 billion. We don't even know what the burden of this deal will be. Mr. Secretary, how much will he bring us financially? That's what I want to ask you. My dear friends, it is unacceptable for Turkey to be put under such burden without a guarantee of full membership without free movement. The adoption of such an agreement is certainly in violation of Turkey's interests, without guaranteeing the costs of re-accession without a date for membership in Turkey. My dear friends, we all know what it means to accept an agreement that single-mindedly looks out for the interests of the European Union. This is similar to the recent capitalizations of the Ottoman Empire. The Turkish people won't accept it. My dear friends, we can't feed what the European Union has sent when we have our own poor. Guys, look, imagine 150,000 people coming in, six months from the European Union, where are you going to put them? You're going to build a ghetto? You're going to camp like Silivri? Where are you going to put them? After that, aren't we going to pay for the inhumane events there again? How can you say yes to that? We'll say no. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0241par0243	Thank you, Mr. Acar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 3 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Before voting on the entire bill, it is favoured to state the color of the game by Siirt MP Afif Demirkıran. Here you go, Mr. Ironbreaker.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0242par0249	Yeah, I'm just gonna say good luck and get off, but... Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've come up here to give the final speech of the resuscitation agreement. Let me point out the color of my play now: I say yes.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0243par0253	You refuse, don't you?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0242par0254	There's a great deal of reasons for me to say yes. But I'll tell you what, the speaker just said, "What are we going to do if 150,000 people come to Turkey? We've embraced 1 million Syrians, we'll do to them what we're doing to them, one. Secondly...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0243par0256	They're raising money all over the place. If only you'd never held it in your heart.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0244par0257	Is this the inn? What about the rights of this nation?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0242par0258	Excuse me... excuse me...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0243par0259	They want money in every corner.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0244par0260	Is this the inn?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0242par0261	Secondly, in 2001, before us, before our power, a re-enactment agreement was made with Greece. And it was done before us. You guys did it. You beat us to it. Thus, today, if there is an illegal migration to the European Union, it is mainly crossing the Turkish-Greek border. Now, it's always possible for Greece to give them back under a re-enactment agreement that is in effect. So whether we make this deal or not, friends -- part of the Greek European Union -- sends back people who go there illegally.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0245par0263	Then let's not do it. Well, there's no problem then.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0242par0264	But, look, I'll tell you the truth: recently, from the beginning of 2001 to today, Greece said: 110,000 people have come from Turkey. I'll send them back. Turkey looked at them, looked at them, and said, "Okay, I'll take the 13,000 and so on." Do you know how much it cost? He's only been able to send 3,800. He's only been able to send 3,800. So it's not what you're saying here, it's the truth of the picture. Third, we have to protect our borders. So it comes from outside, from Syria, from Afghanistan, from somewhere else to Turkey. If he goes to Europe, if Europe sends him back, no, I won't accept him. If he hadn't left, he'd have been here. I mean, why don't you consider it? But if we're going to do visa liberalisation, if we're going to guarantee that our citizens will go to Europe without visas, then we're going to have to make a re-enactment agreement because wherever there's visa liberalisation, if there's a neighbour, there's two-to-four acceptance agreements, and when we look at it, there's an annual analysis report published by Frontex in 2014, where it says: 107,000 people have gone to the entire European Union illegally. The majority of that, for some reason, is from Syria, for some reason, from Afghanistan and Eritrea. How far has Turkey gone? About a quarter of this goes every year, but compared with the previous year, there is a serious decline in the transitions from Turkey to Europe. Therefore, I believe that the re-enactment agreement will lead to charity if it brings visa liberalisation to Turkey.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0246par0267	It's business, it's business, it's
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0242par0268	If it does not bring visa liberalisation, we have the means to terminate it immediately, according to Article 24/7. It'll already take effect in three years, and then in six months, it'll already be visa liberalisation, but I repeat: if Greece and I made this deal in 2001, before the AK PARTI power, it'll be easy. Then what were you defending on this stand, speaking in the same words? I'm telling my friends at the nationalist movement party, my friends at the Republican People's Party. Mr. Lütfü passed through here, I wasn't going to say it, but I'll tell you this: no, my dear friend, the landlord never came to the dining room after us. At our last meeting, Mr. Surjan, Vice President of the European Parliament, has hosted us. After the food was eaten, there was a gift exchange, and we gave him our gift, and he gave him his gift, and then we said goodbye and left. So what Lütfü Bey said here, sir, they didn't accept us, so I resigned for it. There is no such thing. Is that even possible? Never. All our friends in the Karma Parliamentary Commission know what kind of attitude we put where we need to be when we need to be in Europe, Mr. Hope is there, and our other friends are here. Thus, we always keep Turkey's interests at the top, and we always make the greatest effort to make sure that Turkey never succeeds in any of its interests; membership in the European Union is part of it, and the re-accession agreement is part of it, and visa liberalisation dialogue is part of it. I wish you well, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0247par0273	Thank you, Mr. Ironcracker.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0248par0274	Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0247par0275	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0248par0276	The speaker himself said that I lied by giving my name. And I'd like to give him an answer, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0247par0277	Yes, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0249par0278	He goes through the back. He said, "It doesn't go through here." He didn't say anything about it. Mr. President, this is where it takes place.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0247par0279	I mean, there's nothing to do. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0250par0281	No hard feelings.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0251par0282	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Afif Demirkıran, know that in the dozens of European Parliamentary Commission meetings we attended abroad, we put politics aside for Turkey, and we took a stand against our friends who acted otherwise, and we took a stand that they didn't take, and we took a stand that they couldn't. At the last meal -- God bless -- if it wasn't for members of the House Foreign Affairs staff, the dining tables would be empty.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0252par0284	Because of the European Parliament elections.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0251par0285	Look, it's because of the European Parliament elections and...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0252par0286	The vice president was there as his host.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0253par0287	Were you there, Lütfü?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0251par0288	If it weren't for officers leaving our Parliament, it would be empty. By God, we took those officers to the table, and we found the opportunity to eat with them. Mr. President, I'm saying he's having a hard time, too. I think so, but he's having trouble expressing it.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0254par0290	The landlord was there.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0251par0291	Look, as a Turk, I've called myself a Zul, and as a Turk, I'm glad you didn't consider this a crime. As-salaam alaikum.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0255par0294	You're lying!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0256par0295	The landlord was there.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0251par0296	It's too much for the man!
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0257par0297	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Burdur MP Ramadan Kerim Özkan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0258par0302	Mr. President, my dear friends said it was because it was going to be good. And since it won't be good, I declare that I'll vote no. Why? Because these people are people who have left their country without permission -- thieves, degenerates, corrupts, decents, or whatnot.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0259par0303	But he entered Turkey.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0258par0304	A man doesn't leave his country, a man doesn't leave his village, a man doesn't leave his country. There's something wrong with a man who left his hometown.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0260par0305	The illegal routes.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0258par0306	We left, but we left for our livelihood; we went to Germany, we went to the Netherlands, we went to France, but there were no problems in those countries, our Turkish citizens were no problem in those countries. These people are coming out of Pakistan, Iran, Iraq, different countries, but they're being sent from your country to my country because it's a problem. I'll give this law to him. Also, my dear friends, I served as a reserve officer in the 6th Border Battalion in 1986, in the border battalion where the honor and honor of the Turkish nation was maintained. Russia was not scattered, and as an athleticist passed by by the train, behold, when he was crossing a river by train, he leapt into the river, and passed over the river to Arpachay, and delivered at the post. The child's request is: I want to defect from this country to another country, America.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0261par0308	Mr. President, it would be an insult to all immigrants.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0258par0309	However, our government officials on that day were interviewed at the East Gate, saying, "This will be a spy in that country, and it will be a problem in that country."
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0261par0310	It's an insult to all immigrants. It's an insult.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0258par0311	This athlete cried and cried, among the translators, we had to deliver it to Russia, see. He was a man like Filinta, a college graduate, he didn't even accept that person, he handed him over to his country. Which is what we're going to do, we're going to keep a man in our country who's lost track of him, who we don't know.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0262par0312	You also delivered the people of Azerbaijan to the Russians.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0258par0313	I'm speaking to my friends, our friends from Maraş, my friends from Yozgat, Sivas, Burdur, Isparta, with so many unemployed people in your country...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0262par0314	You delivered the Azerbaijans to the Russians.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0258par0315	How can you accept these people into this dump when we are so hungry and hungry, when we have so many hungry people? Let's not accept that, guys. We're a nation without problems, we're a Turkish nation, we're a noble nation. (CHP rows) None of us are righteous children of the noble Turkish nation. (HP and MHP rows) These boys don't have problems in the countries they go to, but we see those people, they're a problem.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0262par0317	We're also Hami people.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0258par0318	We are the people of Hami, and this is Hami, and this is Hami, and Hami Yıldırım is in our midst, and there is no fault in Hami. Pregnancy knows what she's doing, she knows what she's doing. Look, you're giving Hami a say, she'll be here. You have the right to speak, and Bajram has no right to speak... My dear friends, look, put your hand on your conscience, I just told you, is there no unemployment in your homeland? Look, we've had our fill, we've had our floods, it's a disaster in our country because of global warming. Our people are worried about seedling, and the Bank of Agriculture is concerned about debt, and the debt of agriculture is concerned about debt. When we should be looking at these people, we should be...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0263par0320	If this law doesn't go through, you can't run for President.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0258par0321	We love people, because of the Creator.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0264par0322	Bravo, Ramadan.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0258par0323	But I went to Kahramanmarash the other day, when my young men were out of work, playing okey, backgammon in coffee corners, and I saw one Syrian at every workplace, like this, like this, like this, like that, like that, like that, like that, like that, like that. Friends, these have come all the way to Burdur. We are from the region of Teke of the Mediterranean, and they have come to our land, why? They call it the hungry hen barn. They're hungry, but they're dishonest.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0265par0324	Don't generalize, don't generalize.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0258par0325	Look, just yesterday, he showed us TVs, a barber's house was raided, his business was raided because he offended an honest girl. Why? For being dishonest. So I say to you: "Come, let us think again, and let us consider it as no, and say there is no, and I offer you all respect and love.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0266par0327	May Allah not put you in that position.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0267par0328	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0258par0329	Do not let God cause you to suffer for what you have done. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0266par0330	You don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow, it's not humane.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0258par0331	Look, I just told you, we love the Creator because of the Creator.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0266par0332	And Allah does not need any one of you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0258par0333	But I don't like bandits, I don't like thieves, I don't like corrupts. If you like it, good luck with the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0268par0335	Let's send one million Syrians.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0269par0336	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0270par0337	Don't let God knock on your door.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0269par0338	The entire bill is subject to an open vote.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0271par0339	Take 10 of them home.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0272par0340	Mr. President, just a moment.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0269par0341	Yes, Mr. Kaçir?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0272par0342	Sir, people may have to pass through our country under various circumstances. This is an insult to immigrants.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0273par0343	Yeah, I agree.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0272par0344	I refuse to do that. That can't happen.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0274par0346	It's on the record, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0275par0347	This is the motherland of immigrants, where is the motherland of the Syrian coming?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0276par0348	No namus. He said.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0275par0349	Don't bring together immigrants and Syrians. What do you know about immigrants?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0277par0350	Okay, well, he's not that humiliated either.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0275par0351	What's that got to do with anything? The motherland of immigrants...
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0278par0352	No namus. He said, let him take it back.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0279par0353	There's absolutely no such thing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0280par0354	Please... he said he didn't mean it.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0279par0355	There's absolutely no such thing.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0281par0356	So the Balkans are lost?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0282par0357	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0283par0358	Now, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0284par0363	Shame on you. Look at that head! Your immigrant doesn't know what a refugee is.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0285par0364	Guys, I'm in.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0286par0365	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0287par0366	You've finally put the Syrians and the Balkans together, so be it.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0286par0367	Rejection, my friends, to the European Union.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0287par0368	Refusing to be the garbage of the European Union.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0288par0369	No one wants to leave their home. Okay? No one would do such a thing.
tbmm-2014-06-25sit04spe0289par0371	[[The vote continued with the electronic device]] Members of the Council of Ministers, it is a clear vote that the Agreement on Responsibility between the Republic of Turkey and the European Union is appropriate: [[x]] So the bill was accepted and legalized. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, it is Thursday (June 26, 2014) that we discuss the work on the special agenda, the bill and proposals, and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 14 p.m. on Thursday (June 26, 2014). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
