tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise two congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to the Manisa MP Free Private, who wants to talk about the problems of the mine workers. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. We all know that such a study in parliament on a Sunday is actually very problematic for the efficiency of Parliament. However, the method of living with the bag we face has forced us to do so. Today is the sixty-seventh day of the Soma disaster, and I had to take a word out of the agenda to bring some things up, because at the end of 67 days, some are trying to take Soma away from the agenda. The tactics of the ruling party, both in the Plan and Budget Commission and in the Parliamentary General Assembly, forced us to do so when the newspapers and televisions from Soma were away and the promises to Soma were realized that they would not be kept, that the important part of them would be abandoned, and that they would be watered down, and that they would spread over time. Unfortunately, the victims of Soma are not only 301 people who died in Soma. There are very different victims, but unfortunately they are not on the agenda of the ruling party. I now invite you once again to take these matters into your own hands, off the agenda. One of them is the Gurmin Machine Workers in Soma. Since 1990, they've been doing technical work, doing heavy work, working in welding. In the last four years, they've done 3,000 meters of tape-band conductors, 2,000 meters of pattern poles, 10,000 metres of TEASH brush and direct closures, but unfortunately, at this point today neither the employer nor the government have seen these efforts, and they can't actually get a salary from the boss, even though they've been working underground editing, and they haven't been paid for the salary of those who haven't been paid in two months. The holidays are coming, and we can't afford to buy our children a holiday, and they've forgotten us for two months. We'd like to rephrase the issue of the laborers of the Gurmin Machine on the agenda of the High Assembly. There are employees at the Akcord firm, but bureaucrats know them as Ada Metal employees because they've been transferred from subcontractor to subcontractor. They work in the open furnaces in Soma, they do a cover job, so they take the land from one place to the other until they reach the coal. They're at risk of a landslide. For them, the day-to-day work was seven and a half in the old law. During seven and a half hours of the same work in Kütahya, the company's foot in Soma is unfortunately ten hours a day but is forced to work 12 hours a day. They wrote a petition about their condition, and when about 100-150 people signed the petition, they laid off the person who collected it before they even put it in the mail. I collected these signatures, but they fired me before I sent them to you. We seek our rights, we want to work for seven and a half hours. I'll give this to the Minister again today. Let's take into account the Akcord employees and these decapitation workers. Warn Mining, the last fatal accident on October 20, 2013, was the 11th person in the last three years. After that, in December, Warning Mining was shut down, but until that day -- you know, all the public knows -- the employer was always looking out for him and the employer's escape was set up. The employer escaped, warning that 700 miners of Mining failed to receive their last two months' salary, while a significant number of these workers failed to receive severance pay in the mine. We have two friends, Ali Kandemir and Idris Sarkaya, one of whom lost both eyes and legs in the same accident due to faulty use of explosives. They still have their compensations at Mining. I've been promised many times. It's the final clause of 15 promises given to the worker, but it's not on the agenda of Parliament today, unfortunately, we're taking promises off the agenda. Finally, there are workers who died in Soma, Zonguldak, Afshin, Bursa, but who died before that -- God forbid -- in mining accidents that will die after this. Unfortunately, this Parliament tells the workers that either you were too late to die or you died too soon, my friends. And most importantly, it's your fault, you died one by one. Because if 301 people don't die together, we don't give you any rights. This Parliament does nothing to the person who died two months before the accident and the person who died 15 days later. I'd like to emphasize that this is the agenda of Parliament that doesn't exist. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0003par0021	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP İlhan Demiröz, who wants to talk about the problems of the fruit producers in Bursa. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0004par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on this holiday day, I salute and cherish you dear fellow lawmakers, who have been forced to work on the bill of burdens, sacks, or soup. I've been promised off-the-topsy about the problems of scholarship fruit producers that have always been going on and reaching the maximum point in the last few days. I would like to point out that I strongly condemn Israel's inhuman attacks on Gaza, which have been extinguishing the Palestinian people for a week, and that we are always with our Palestinian brothers. Honorable MPs, Supreme Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, at His Majesty's Mansion in 1925, say: "Bursa is a land of agriculture, a land of art, a land of medicine, a land of healing. Yes, I'd like to state that we have a province that supplies the fruits and vegetables of other provinces in its territory, as its geographical position in the South Marmara region. In short, we can farm at 31.4 per cent of it, with a total of 1 million hectares. However, I would like to point out here that 11 percent of the agricultural land continues as fruit, 13 per cent as vegetables, 45 per cent as fields, and 3 per cent as olives. Dear friends, as of 2013, the 322,000 hectares of agriculture are also watered by 78 per cent, but so far, the amount of waterable farmland available is 56 per cent. As of 2013, 34 per cent of the pear production in our Turkey, 22 per cent of the cooking olive production, 18 per cent of the peach production, is made in Burma. I'd like to express that the chestnuts, the scholarship peaches, the Gemlik table olives, and the Bursa black figs lead. But I'm afraid I'd also like to point out where we are with this government's agricultural policies. Dear friends, in October 2013, November, December, 2014, March, May, June, I would like to point out that we started out as unlucky -- in terms of the drought in July. During the flowering of olives in our towns of Mudanya, Iznik, Gemlik, Orhangazi, the rains have damaged more than 80 percent. There have been great losses in Georgia's leading fruitist Georgia, June 1st, June 19th and -- four days ago -- due to the hail of July 15th. I'd like to say that there are 30,000 acres of 35,000 acres in Georgia, 75,000 tons of recollet expected of 100,000 tons, unfortunately, in the form of damage. I would also like to point out that I have shared this information with you in light of the identification and testimony of Mr. Kamil Geziz, our head of the Chamber of Agriculture. Dear friends, I'd like to point out that there is no substance in the bag, sack or soup law that we're talking about, unfortunately, that will reduce the problems and problems that our farmers have been in, which contributes to 9% of the GDP, which contributes 25 per cent to their employment. Last night, our friend at the National Movement Party expressed an objection to all of our friends here. Dear friends, I give you all respect and love that we have been closely following the Commission's work, and that only farmers' interest debts are delayed, that they have no demands other than the construction of the principal money, and that they are producing in spite of today's conditions, that they are not seen by the Ministry of Food Agriculture and Animalism.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0005par0036	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation. I'll have the motions read separately. Since the parliamentary survey motion that I shall read in the third place is more than 500 words, a summary of the motion will be read, but the full text of the motion will be included in the Tutorak Magazine. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition, the reasons for which we have provided the basis are 98 of our Constitution, 104 and 105 of the TBM Administration for the study of similar allegations, identifying problems, and determining the measures to be made in the places where the events and toki projects have been brought up following the flood in Samsun. We demand and demand the establishment of a parliamentary research commission according to the clauses. [[Manisa]] [[Aydın]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 4) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Malatya]] 6) Ayşe Nedret Akova (Fishesir [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 13) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 17) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Hatay]] [[Çanakkale]] 20) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Manisa]] Due to heavy rains on the night of July 3, 2012 in Samsunn's Canik district, the flood of the Mert River flooded the floors of apartments in North Star TOKI dwellings, which began in 2010. 11 people died in the disaster. After this flood, the public housing agency (TİKI) debates began. Arguing over disputes and claims of neglect over building a house in the creek bed was over, while some rant allegations were raised. Allegedly in 2008, before the TOKI project began, the land where TOKI dwellings are today was purchased by the sister of a Canik Deputy Mayor. Six months later, he handed over his land to Canik Mayor Osman Young's brother and his brother's wife. After the sale, the construction of a public housing project on the land was launched under the urban transformation project under the Canik Municipality and TOKI co-operation. So they made a lot of money on the areas they had bought for a lot cheaper. Any serious denial of these allegations has not been made public. Projects similar to the North Star TOKI Project in Samsun Canik have been conducted and continue to be conducted in many parts of Turkey. The majority of these projects are noted for being in places where AKP mayors are in power. All municipalities that have been run or run from the same party to the municipalities have been suspected, in public, that some people have been bought land and gained unfair gain before these projects. These allegations, however, can not only be made for ruling party municipalities, but also for places where opposition party mayors are in office. In order to avoid suspicion of mayors in places of TOKI dwellings, the need for public enlightenment has been made. Otherwise, it is inevitable that all future TOKI projects that have been done in the past, in the present, and in the future will remain in the dark. The political institution of public conscience will be condemned before the suspects are eliminated. Therefore, the task of investigating these allegations falls to the political institution. For reasons listed above, regardless of which party the mayor is from, in all areas where the TOKI dwellings are being built, we investigate whether there are some people who have received an unfair rant prior to the project, and if there are criminal actions, we demand and demand that a parliamentary research commission be established under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Court be established under Articles 104 and 105. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate why and how the F4-type aircraft from Malatya and the Mediterranean crashed from Malatya on June 22, 2012, we would like to have the Constitution's 98th and Turkish Parliamentary Council of Turkey open a parliamentary investigation based on Articles 104, and 105, in order to uncover the reasons for conflicting statements from Turkish government officials and military officials. 1) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Malatya]] [[Çanakkale]] 10) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 11) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Manisa]] [[Aydın]] 14) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] 17) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 19) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Hatay]] 21) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 22) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Manisa]] The reason for the crash of our aircraft, which was alleged to have been dropped by Syria on 22 June 2012, has not been clear, even though it has been three weeks since, for how and for what reasons. The Turkish Air Force's RF-4 fighter plane crashed over the Mediterranean after taking off from Malatya. Regarding the incident, so far, the discrepancy and discrepancy of statements made by other government officials and military officials, particularly Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has led to the growth of current question marks. The lack of evidence of whether the plane was hit in Syrian airspace or international airspace may lead to a major tension that could lead our country to war has caused great public discomfort. "The plane was shot down in international airspace." Turkey's government officials are concerned that their statements are not true and that these allegations are not denied by US government officials. At the point where the plane crashed today, following the statement issued following the Security Summit of Prime Minister Erdogan's presidency, "Our plane was hit by a missile." His statement was denied by the Chief of General Staff that "the derivative of oil collected from the surface of the water has not been found in any fire starter or accelerant profile, organic and inorganic explosive material surplus, and that it is not considered to be of any ordnance." The use of the expression "Suriye has been dropped by official authorities" in a statement from the General Staff has also raised confusion about the issue and has made it suspicious that the plane has not been shot down. It was a great regret to discover that our pilots were dead, despite allegations of the fate of our pilots, shortly after the incident took place. However, as with other matters, there is no satisfying explanation or explanation for where our pilots' bodies are found, their boots, helmets, and even the fact that the cap that comes out of the plane remains intact and brand new. Some of the questions that are so important to the national and international security of our country are: If there are no traces of explosives and ammunition on the plane that crashed, how, where, and why did our plane fall? What mission was our plane flying, and did it have fighter planes or planes accompany it? Where were our pilots found? How did his boots, helmets, and cap stay brand-new and unscathed? Why are the forensic reports of our pilots' exact cause of death not revealed? Why are radio talks not explained by Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, who claims to have proved that our plane was shot down in international airspace? Is it possible that the transfer of General Staff Electronic Systems Command to the MIT had anything to do with the interruption of aircraft communications and the crash of the plane? If there is, what is it? Is it true that the plane was in the region to test and provoke the Syrian Defence Systems and their readiness for war and to transmit flight reports to other NATO member states? Despite US Ambassador to Ankara Francis Ricciardone's statement, "As U.S. government, we have delivered all information we have on the plane that crashed," why is this information not shared with the public? Who or who is responsible for making such conflicting statements to the head and other officials of the Republic of Turkey? For these reasons, the motion is given to ensure public enlightenment of this important event that concerns every Turkish citizen and to reveal the reasons for conflicting statements. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Health care must be applied in accordance with both international human rights contracts and the social state principle in our Constitution. Although there are declarations in our Constitution for the protection of health rights of individuals, the AKP's government is zoning healthcare and signing new practices that make earnings a priority instead of protecting the purpose of human health. New arrangements in the field of health have been made in particular over the last year. If you have money, if you have no health, die. The discomfort of this understanding and the quality of health care are proven by both public research and health care experts every day. With new health-related contribution regulations, the social government principle has been violated, and hospitals have become a form of business. From those who want to be examined, doctor's appointment fee, medical attendance, prescription fee, equal price difference, additional difference per box, special hospital difference fee, examination rate, early examination notice fee, primary examination fee and processing fees are used to demand the public's health care for you if you do not have any money. Along with the general health insurance policy passed by February 2012, university students who are unemployed, without money and are still studying are almost taxed for health along with the AKP's new system. Although the constitution is also in our country and in international contracts, the right to health care and health care for students is paid instead of in our country's poor financial situation. Instead of maintaining a citizen's health care rights and creating appropriate healthcare environments, the rights of citizens without money are somewhat privatized and are ignored by the state. In addition, with performance-based service practices, the goal is to gain instead of human health, and with this practice, physician-patient relations are strained, resulting in the killings of physicians. Therefore, in order to resolve health problems in our country, to implement human-based health care and to determine what policies will be implemented in order to end sectorization practices in health care, we propose and propose the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, Turkish Parliamential Charter 104, and 105. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 3) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 8) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Gaziantep]] 12) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] 14) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 16) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Hatay]] [[Çanakkale]] 19) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 20) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The National Party of Action has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Sunday (July 20th 2014), I would like to propose that the following proposal of our group be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. On 17 June 2014, the following June 2014, the reason why Mehmet Erdogan and his friends face the danger of the destruction of Lake Bafa and the basin of the Turkish Parliament (4/6513), was proposed to investigate the problems of our citizens living in the region, to address the problems of pollution, to address the problems of the province of Bafa, and the legal arrangements for the rescue of living creatures in the lake (now) in the General Assembly on Sunday (July 20th 2014). The nationalist Movement Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal Mehmet Erdogan, Müğla MP. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0006par0221	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the research proposal we've submitted. I salute your high council. I'd like to begin by cursing Israel, who has been in Gaza for thirteen days, slaughtered Muslims, with their families, young men and women, without discrimination. I also curse the ISIS terror organization that held 49 of our citizens, including our consuls, who had taken our brothers from their homeland in Musul, Kerkuk, Telafer, Tuzhurmatu, Tuzhurmen. Again, at the point where we are here today, I condemn the Great Middle Eastern Project -- which relieved Israel of the persecution of the Muslims in Gaza -- that Syria and Egypt would not be able to look at Gaza because of the internal turmoil they dragged Syria and Egypt into. Again, I refer to those who have increased our country's trade with Israel, who have enabled Israeli pilots to train in Konya, who could not return the Jewish Medal of Courage, which had been presented to him on such a day, to the great Turkish nation after God. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are truly a pearly city of our country. Of course, Mudla is not an industrial city, nor do we desire to have a city of industry in our country. It is a city of agriculture and tourism with very serious historical, of course, and cultural wealth, with fertile lands. To sustain tourism and agriculture, we need to maintain our historical and of course values very well. Of course, one of our values is Lake Bafa. Those who don't see what we're saying when we say Lake Bafa may not know what we're talking about, but they know all the local and foreign tourists from Söke. Bafa is a natural wonder that all tourists who travel from Söke to Bodrum have stopped for tea and left with pleasant memories in their magnificent panorama. Lake Bafa, which puts its back on the ancient Latmos, the Fivefinger Mountains, is one of the most beautiful places where the sun sets and the moon is born. Lake Bafa, which has traces of beauty and past civilizations in each corner, is among the indispensable places of nature, history, botany, bird, and photography. To see Bafa panoramic, hikers can climb through the huge rocks that rise right next to the lake and watch the magnificent beauty of the lake. Those who cannot climb the mountain can see the magical beauty of the lake, its historical sites, and the spectacular view of the Fivefinger Mountains. It is always possible to see endangered birds in Bafa. If necessary measures are not taken, Bafa's natural landscape will be corrupted, the unique beauty of the Fivefinger Mountains will be irreversibly destroyed, Lake Bafa will die; birds, fish will be destroyed, so there will be no business left in this vicinity. Those who knew the properties of Lake Bafa, and could not accept the destruction of it, gathered at Lake Bafa yesterday to preach their voices in order to revive Bafa, creating a human chain on the shore. So today, with this motion being raised, we've put this motion on the agenda of Congress so that we can move the voice of our fellow citizens, who raised their voices from Bafa yesterday and expressed the drama there, to move the voice of our citizens to Parliament, to attract the attention of the government and the Turkish Grand National Assembly to Bafa. In recent years, the chemistry of Lake Bafa has been corrupted, so to speak, as a result of a lack of water entry to Lake Bafa, drought, and contamination of water supplies to Lake Bafa. We want the environment, agriculture, and tourism to be saved, all of us together to determine the measures needed for the rescue of Lake Bafa. When we are all able to save Lake Bafa, we will be able to help our citizens, who are making a living by hunting, fishing, working as tourists in nature's field around the lake. Mr. President, the most valuable lawmakers should know that Lake Bafa is apparently dying, Lake Bafa is dying, Lake Bafa is dying, but if you look a little closer at it, Lake Bafa is not just Lake Bafa, but all the species of fish living in Lake Bafa and around Bafa are left to die in totality. In order for Lake Bafa to live, two basic procedures must be performed. The first is the provision of sufficient water to sustain life in Lake Bafa, Lake Bafa, and the airport; and the second is to ensure that the water supply that feeds Lake Bafa is restored to a quality that will sustain life in Lake Bafa. Of course, the main source of the problem here is errors in the preservation of the Great Menderes River basin, because the Great Menderes River is the most important source of water that feeds Lake Bafa. The problems caused by industrial waste, garbage, and other agricultural and chemical waste that were uploaded to the Great Menderes River are today the most important factor to disrupt the ecosystem at Lake Bafa. Of course, the Great Menderes River is not the only source that soils Lake Bafa. Again, the waste of businesses in the surrounding area, the fisheries by the lake, and the landwaters of oil factories must be prevented from interfering with the lake. In recent years, it is the same problem in Lake Bafa and agriculture that we have experienced in our country as people have been unconsciously using too much antibiotics to deal with an oasis. Unfortunately, in our country, there is no way to prevent unconscious drug use in the agricultural sector. The damage to both the environment and human health of the drugs used in agriculture today is not fully known. Therefore, necessary measures must be taken at the point of the use of agricultural drugs that cause resource waste and threaten human health and environment, and serious work must be done at the point of a public awareness. Some officials do not acknowledge pollution at Lake Bafa. Sadly, there are members of the cabinet who have made such statements. All right, is there pollution at Lake Bafa, or do the fish at Lake Bafa die because they can't stand the oxygen? In short, if Lake Bafa cannot be revived by measures, it will have enormous consequences for both the region's economy and for those living in Lake Bafa. It will also cause the extinction of species of birds that breed in the wetlands at Lake Bafa airport. According to studies, more than 200 species of birds are known to reside in the wetlands at Lake Bafa. As I said at the beginning, Mugla is a city of tourism. Bafa, of course, is an important natural entity for Mudla. However, in recent years, the government's wrong policies have turned into one of Turkey's most troubled cities in the matter of pollution. The privatisation of thermal power plants and coal basins in Yaten and Milas will then lead to a more irresponsible idea of operating to settle in Mughla and increase environmental destruction in Mugla. Again, planning to build new thermal plants in Mughla would have grave consequences for Turkish tourism and Mugla agriculture. Therefore, the issue of increasing the number of thermal power plants that will have grave consequences must be reconsidered. It must also ensure that the damage done to the environment is minimized. Again, the destruction of olive groves on parliament's agenda by opening up to mining could also lead to new environmental catastrophes in Mudla. Again, a new version of coastal looting is being observed in Mughla recently. Instead of being run by the public, the pearl of the world, the Dead, the Iztuzu, our beaches are being pursued by a number of subsidiary companies, rather than by public and public. At this rate, it will open the way for all beaches in Mugla to be operated by the private sector, completely commercially, without public interest. At this rate, it will be difficult for our citizens and tourists in the region to use these beaches day by day. Of course, a slight oversight of the construction of these privatized beaches will also lead to a very serious and inescapable coastal looting in Mughla. With these thoughts and feelings, I look forward to your support for our motion, and I salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0007par0239	Thank you. The National Movement Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Yüksel Özden, Müğla MP. Here you go, Mr. Özden.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0008par0243	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I'd like to begin by greeting everyone, all of you. In the beginning, I would like to begin by condemning Israel, who left Gaza to die slowly, and in recent days -- who, according to reports today -- has killed 400 people -- who have done a little persecution for the wife of human history. Yes, the subject that was mentioned earlier, the subject of Lake Bafa, is very little to speak of here. No matter how much our fellow MP, Bafa, describes the environmental importance of Lake Bafa, economic importance, social and social importance, we stand behind them all in a way that doesn't fit in ten minutes. We're really talking about a natural wonder. We're talking about a place where fish is the livelihood of hundreds, thousands of people directly, and in short, perhaps one of Turkey's most important environmental values, Lake Bafa, was part of the Aegean Sea hundreds of years ago, friends. It had the ancient Gulf of Latmos in its place, and when the sea was cut off with the alluvions of the Great Menderes River, it became a lake in the late Middle Ages. Even today, it is known that the lake is still connected to the sea, even if it does not appear physically from the ground. We even know that the species of fish that lives in Spain comes and lays eggs there and produces fish. So that's what we're talking about. For him, there is no pollution there, no matter who said it. We cannot accept such a thing. There is pollution from this or this, and Lake Bafa is dying. In my note, we're talking about about about 250 species of birds, and over 300 species of plants. This is a place where we've been pushing the ministries for months, demanding information from them, and we've been objecting to those who try to make it look like nothing's happening. We've seen it, we've seen it, it's dying here. And let me also say, as a son of that land, born and raised in that region, everyone knows that in order to maintain that aliveness, we feel that every measure must be taken from the very beginning. As a child of that region, I like to think that in our villages there are miserable people who have wasted a period, maybe five or ten years to save the day. So we can't allow this place to be consumed, destroyed, for development today, for Rant, for over-profit. Because if it's going to produce industry -- a river born from the Afyon that we're talking about -- we're talking about pollution from the sea, from the footman -- if anyone's going to produce it, don't consume it, don't let anyone produce it at the cost of destroying the beauty where our people were born, where they grew up. We know very well that, yes, there are standards. There are standards of black water in olive oil factories, there are dermatology standards, there are others. But one, these standards are different; two, the water that comes in is said to be measured by these different standards, but the water that comes in hurts Lake Bafa. That's one. But what also happened this year was that since before this place was largely fed from the Great Menderes River, it wasn't as much seaweed as it is now. Now there's a lot of seaweed. And this seaweed doesn't leave oxygen in there, it doesn't leave life. Due to the extreme drought, he could not feed on the Great Mendes River. Because for the first time there -- I know that for the first time in Turkey -- this is the first time that I know -- that there was a species regulator in English called "The Rubber Dam. " And this regulator was given to Lake Bafa by bulging water in Menderes. So the jeans are kept at a certain level and the circulation is provided. But this year, because of the extreme drought, it couldn't feed, and because it couldn't feed, the creatures in the lake have come to the point of dissension, called algae, and we've done our warnings to the ministries, the governorship, the DSI, everywhere, and we'll continue to do them. It's not like the study hasn't been done. So there's been commissions about this before. The ministry is setting up a commission in 2013, and it will have to publish the report in the coming days, or this year. So it's on the agenda, it's a work, it's a known subject. One suggestion is that we are involved in all efforts, including water transfers from the China Dam to Menderes the Great, where water is added to the dilute, which is to reduce pollution condensation and support the lake. But, again, we all have our responsibilities, really, to say the least. We can't mortgage our future for the quick development of these days. Let us maintain our lakes, protect our environments, protect our shores. And he just told me about the beaches when our friend Mudla was on the agenda. Yeah, you heard it, so did Turkey. We, as two lawmakers, have first objected to the mistakes and the mistakes of the beaches, and we have rebelled. But our job wasn't to express it, it was also to ensure that it was done, so the ones involved, whoever is making the tender, are the wrong ones. These are the wrong ones. These are the wrong ones. They were to be done, and as a matter of fact, the public knows how many of them are canceled and done again when we want them to work. If there's one -- if there's one -- we said it in the first place -- I mean, if there's a political attraction, if there's a document, let's not just talk here, let's go to the D.A. together. We're saying it so clearly because it's Turkey's most beautiful geography; we can't waste it on anything; we can't do it on behalf of the speedy development of the present, and we can't do it on behalf of some spontaneous conjunctural rhetoric. But I have to say something. When I received the information of the platform through it, we spoke clearly and clearly, that if it were not open to parliament, we would be there as we have done so far. I mean, I just said that, and no matter how much I tell you, it's gonna be short. Our friends and groups of MPs know very well how a research commission was created in Congress. As someone who's shared these things, who's supported the action, who's supported the action as a ruling party MP -- because that's out of the question -- I don't know. If we really want to save Lake Bafa here, come -- look, I see here -- that's profit, if we don't look at it, let's not just the MPs, let's get together, let's talk to our groups from Afyon, let's talk about it together, and let's set up this commission together, and let's save Bafa.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0009par0255	Well, yes, you are, Congressman.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0008par0256	My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0010par0259	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0011par0260	My dear President, the speaker has only made the call to the MPs of certain provinces. So we don't have another world to go to, the environment belongs to everyone.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0010par0261	Mr. Tanal, I promise Mr. Demir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0011par0262	That's why it's our duty to protect and protect this environment. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0010par0264	Thank you. Nurettin Demir, MP of the National Movement Party, is in favor of the group's proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0012par0268	Mr. President, I'd like to thank the esteemed MPs, first and foremost, the MP Mehmet Erdogan of the National Movement Party, Yüksel Özden. It's a really important issue, and it's a good thing that this has come up yesterday, especially as a person who joined the human chain at Lake Bafa. I hope that after these talks, this motion to investigate will be accepted and a study group will be formed. First of all, I salute the grand jury. I would like to point out that I condemn Israel's interference with Palestine. There are screams and screams from many parts of the world. Although it is Ramadan, ISIS kills Turkishmen and many Muslims, taking hostages; Palestinian women, children are killed. Turkey also has screams. And one of them shall come from Bapha, and Bapha shall be slain. Lake Bafa, which is located within the province of Aydın-Mugla, is dying, and Bafa is dying. Lake Bafa, the largest natural lake in the Aegean region, is a lake that is highly important for both the wetlands and the nature park, one of the great beautys of the region, with its ancient cities, biological and cultural wealth. It is surrounded by archaeological sites that went up to 10,000 years ago, rock graves, rock paintings. Lake Bafa has been the first natural site since 1994, and is the first degree archaeological site. It is also registered as 6,271 hectares of lake space and 5,560 hectares of treasure, private individuals, forest fields, totaling 12,281 hectares of nature park. The nature park has a rich variety of plants, including 19 mammal species, 96 species, 525 species of plants, 24 species of reptiles and 275 species of birds. According to the 1986 census of Lake Bafa, the first-class wetlands were identified as 55,000 water birds. According to the European Red List of Natural Protection, the World Union is living in the category of low-risk species: dwarves, white-eyed, white-tailed eagles, steppes, pink-billed gulls and grey cherrybirds. The small clumsy dig, the summer duck, the red knead, and birds like the plowed bird, are also seen in Lake Bafa, which falls into the category of vulnerable species. Lake Bafa contains 16 species of endemic plants, such as bellflowers, spring stars, mangy weed, lactose milk, yogurt weed. On the other hand, the lake is very rich in watery plants, allowing many species of fish to live in the lake. There are also fish species in the lake that have commercial value, such as eels, silver fish, sea bass, kephal, cimbura. Today, however, the lake appears to be a smooth pea soup covered with algae called blue-green algae. The lake is rapidly disappearing in terms of a healthy habitat. The reason for this appearance is that the Great Menderes River, which has traveled 580km in the provinces of Afyon, Uçe, Denizli and Aydın, from the Afyon Dinar district, carries home, industrial and agricultural waste to Lake Bafa. In addition, the lake is contaminated by the transport of agricultural fertilizer and pesticides to the lake, used in a large number of agricultural fields around the lake. In addition, the waste left by a large number of baby fish production facilities located near the lake is polluting the lake even more. There are three large-scale water products incubator facilities near the lake. The chemicals found in the facilities are dumped directly into the lake. Two of the oil factories found in the nature park, including 18 of the oil plants around the lake, are also flowing into the lake, called,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. Scientifically, extreme contamination in the lake also causes a huge increase in nitrogen and phosphorus in lake water and soil. This, in particular, causes algae to increase greatly in the lake during the summer months. In an article, Kuşadasi EKODOSD President Bahattin Driver asked the District Directorate of Aydın Environment and Urbanism, saying that the blue-green algae, an important factor of pollution in Lake Bafa, have increased yearly, and why the lake's pollution and smell related to it has grown to unbearable sizes. The answer he received was: "It is common for scientists to see the sudden alga increase in the development of optimum environmental conditions needed by organisms living in similar wet areas. " Didn't they ask: Did you ever go to Lake Bafa, Mr. Manager? Did you stop for a couple of hours in the Lakeyaka area? During our visit last month, our nose poles almost broke from the smell. Women tried to withstand the smell by covering their noses with cologne handkerchiefs. The local people have to endure the heavy smell 24 hours a day for at least three or four months until the rains start. It's really hard to stay an hour in one of those sticky flies. The county manager gave a proper response to the government, tried to cover up the problem. In recent years, though, the Minister of Forestry and Waterworks also said: "We have saved Bafa. " Look, what scientists say is that the blue-green algae that make up this look in the lake are being tested by a series of tests in the labs. As a result of the tests, it has been identified as a species called nodularia spumigena. Such formations are known to lead to unwanted consequences for water quality, water creatures and environments. Even though blue-green algae are part of nature, it's not natural for these creatures to occur in lakes that are reaching hyperotrophic levels like Lake Bafa. This is an indication that Lake Bafa has become extremely polluted. The authorities ignore these statements. Respected MPs, we no longer have decades, hundreds, years for Bafa. Bafa is dying rapidly at every passing second, and life is disappearing in Bafa, and it is no longer a place to live with humans and an entire fabric of life, and it is even damaging its environment. Experts say that even if measures and solutions are started today, the lake can only be saved in ten years. The eels that came all the way from Mexico to Lake Bafa no longer return to the ocean after eight to ten years of breeding in Bafa. Lake Bafa, one of the world's most important bird havens, and its surroundings are no longer the birds, no longer the birds. Yesterday, 1,500 of us formed a human chain to give life to Lake Bafa. In order to make the cry of Bafa (Bafa) public, environmental friends, NGOs gathered there. Now the Clave must hear these screams and support this motion for research. Professor Dr. Yüksel Özden, one of our district MPs, threw out some support for Bafa yesterday. I'd like to read to you: If I didn't have to work for the Parliament, I would have joined the Last Scream Action while Life Found Lasted in Bafa. We can't stand by while Lake Bafa is dying. AKP MP Yüksel Özden. I'm celebrating the platform. I suggest they join our countrymen. We see that what has been done is not enough, that we should do something else. Again, a third tweet, I thank him in particular: the truth is not conjunctual; we will answer to the people and to the people. I expect from here, again, all lawmakers in Congress, groups, group presidents, to approve this research motion and give it a chance to form a working group. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0013par0284	Thank you. The nationalist Movement Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Ali Kulla MP. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0014par0288	Dear President, the esteemed MPs, I would like to start by protesting the persecution that has been going on in Gaza for the past 12 days. Three of our deputies spoke on behalf of Lake Bafa. In fact, I'd like to say that I agree with each of their conversations in a certain way. But right now, we're discussing a bag of day-to-night laws that we've been working on at the Plan Budget Commission for over a month. At the moment, the work of Parliament is on top of the holiday, and it's overlapping. Therefore, I value our work on Bafa... as well as the value of Mugla, as much as the value of Turkey, Lake Bafa is also very important, irreparable, and it's a rare thing that has developed from years to years to years. Instead of compressing this value into this one-day inquiry motion, let us, together with all district lawmakers, work together with the relevant parties, to establish a plan of action on Lake Bafa in Mugla, right after the festival, and follow the action plan that will arise in this workshop, as well as the action plan itself. Instead of making political materials for Lake Bafa, we follow in place what phases of work are there in Bafa (Bafa) every time we go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0015par0291	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0016par0292	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0014par0293	The last time I came to Lake Bafa myself this summer, I made it clear here that I had learned about the progress of both the authorities there and the people living in Bafa.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0017par0295	What do people have to do with the pollution of the lake?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0014par0296	Instead of making it political material...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0018par0297	What did you do?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0014par0298	...our public defender supported both with the openness of his heart and with Twitter. Do not worry that we will provide the necessary support for all efforts to restore Bafa (Bafa).
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0019par0300	Then vote.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0014par0301	I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0020par0304	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0021par0305	So, Mr. President, there were two contrasting ideas in the same group. Mr. Yüksel told me the truth.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0020par0306	Mr. President, as lawmakers, we offer motions for research on Lake Bafa or various matters. The mission of this Assembly is to find solutions to people's problems, to address people's problems, to set up the research commission. Don't make political decisions. The point is, do not serve the nation. It's a form of understanding. Thus, this mentality sees only the point of raising a finger and lowering a finger as politics. In this regard, the Justice and Development Party about Lake Bafa may say that there is a topic in the day. Look, if there's a positive opinion here as all political parties, let's not talk about the bride, let's all form a commission together, then let's get right on it. Go ahead, go ahead. There's no obstruction or delay, there's no commission, there's no speech. So, here, let's all come up with a motion on this, and we'll set up the commission right now and let's get out of here. Come on, let's go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0022par0308	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0023par0309	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0022par0310	One moment, Mr. Tanal, please, we don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0023par0311	Sir, it's... it's important. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0022par0312	Mr. Tanal, please sit down.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0024par0313	He'll speak for the group.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0023par0314	In the name of the group...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0022par0315	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0023par0316	On behalf of the group, our group vice president has promised, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0022par0317	For the band?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0025par0318	Yeah, for the band.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0022par0319	You're here, tell me. You ask for permission first, then. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0026par0321	Thank you, Mr. President. For once, I don't accept your understanding of bringing these hierarchyal rankings among the MPs. So this is my first question.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0022par0323	No, sir, I'm not. He's bringing in the Civil Code. Please.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0026par0324	Second question...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0022par0325	So there's a way to work here.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0026par0326	That's the way it works.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0022par0327	Everybody knows. So you'll find out. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0026par0329	Sir, we know that, and so will the Council. I mean, at every age, every person needs to learn. Yeah, well, I need to learn, and you need to learn.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0022par0330	Mr. Tanal, you don't have the right to say that about everything, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0026par0332	I'm just getting to the point, Mr. President, about Lake Bafa, who was just inside the boundaries of our province of Mugla... of course, this is an environmental massacre. As you can appreciate, everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment according to Article 56 of our Constitution, and all those who are born now have the same right. When we look at it from this point of view, it's really a matter of great importance to mankind. Of course, every country in the world has a political sense. I thank Mr. Yüksel, who supported this motion from within the Justice and Development Party in terms of this political understanding. I mean, that friend of ours supported objective truths, and he said, "Let's do it." But our other deputy friend stood up for it.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0027par0333	Enough with the lecture!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0026par0334	I mean, as a result, it's something that's above parties, it's a matter that's political. For that reason, Mr. President, we would like to ask for support in consideration of our fellow Regents.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0028par0336	Please, Mr. Lawmakers... Thank you. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0029par0339	Mr. President, thank you. As the People's Democratic Party, you know, we're talking about a gentlemanly motion. However, you know our party's sensitivity to the environment, nature, culture, history, and many of the research proposals we've brought in. We feel that this study of Lake Bafa is extremely important, and there is no way that this bag could interfere with the law, and we may not talk about it. We too benefit from the establishment of such a research commission. In fact, the ruling party is in charge of all commissions, and I wish the Environment Commission had ever created a subcommittee and done research on a lot of things like this lake, Lake Sapanca. And our point of view on that is clear, we want to be involved in such a research proposal, we want to be accepted -- never in order to block the law -- we're not going to talk about it.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0028par0341	Thank you. Mr. Longhorn, here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0030par0343	Thank you, Mr. President. Our esteemed deputies have told us the historical and present location of Lake Bafa, and I will not dwell on it, but Lake Bafa is not only related to the province of Mughla, it is also related to Aydın, it includes the province of Aydın. Therefore, I believe our Aydın MPs will support this issue, and it's also a very important issue, and it's very important for the pollution of Menderes, because our friends have also mentioned the importance of the Mønderes River. It is vitally important to investigate this issue; it is important to the region, and it is important to Turkey. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0031par0346	Mr. Canikli, please.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0032par0347	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the AK PARTY Group, would like to request a study on the matter of pollution that occurred at Lake Bafa, or we might be able to bring up a research commission on the matter together.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0033par0349	He'll say yes.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0032par0350	Look, dear friends, there's a Parliamentary study today, you know that. I mean, before they've already established a research commission on this kind of thing together, the groups are sort of...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0034par0351	It's not gonna be blocked. You're gonna lift a finger.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0033par0352	We won't talk.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0032par0353	Please... Groups contact each other, talk to each other, and then, together, all groups present joint or separate research proposals, and then they form them.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0033par0355	We're bringing it in tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0032par0356	That's how it's always been done. So, that's the way it is, that's the way it is. I mean, we're not in the same position as we should be. We're not in the same position.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0033par0357	We're bringing it in tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0032par0358	We'll talk about it, we'll come to terms with the groups, and then the groups will submit their motions, and we'll meet at the appropriate time, and we'll get the research commission set up, and we'll get them investigated. That's the spirit.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0035par0359	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0033par0360	Sir, let's have a consultation for five minutes, let's bring them in tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0036par0361	Let's have a five-minute consultation.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0033par0362	Let's not talk, let's do it.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0036par0363	Without speaking, let us include the Lake Sapanca.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0033par0364	Call five minutes, and Mr. Nurettin promised.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0037par0365	Yeah, it's already over. If you vote yes, the General Assembly will continue its work.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0038par0366	I'd like to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0033par0367	Come on...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0038par0368	Those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0039par0369	No, it was wrong.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0038par0370	Mr. Vural, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0040par0374	Thank you. Mr. President, today is July 20th, the anniversary of Operation Peace of Cyprus. At that time, the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Hakk, who decided to make the decision to act on Cyprus Peace, received the mercy of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Ecevit and Mr. Erbakan, we thank and thank you. Today, at the same time, is the festival of peace and freedom in Cyprus, the day of rebirth. In fact, Operation Peace has halted the will to put the people of Cyprus in mass graves. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy for those who have received the mercy of God, in the name of this Operation of Peace. I congratulate you on the Day of Peace and Freedom of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0041par0378	Thank you. Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0042par0381	Mr. President, thank you. I was going to tell you a while ago about the investigation of that lake area, but I'm also going to talk about Cyprus. All of our lakes and wetlands need to be investigated, I call on the House to be sensitive. Second, the anniversary of Operation Peacekeeping of Cyprus, July 20th. I remember the late Mr. Ecevit, who said, "It is neither oppressed nor oppressed, but it is a righteous order." I remember Erbakan with mercy. I wish for our peacekeeping to bring blessings to our country.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0043par0385	Thank you. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on 20/07/2014 Sunday (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. A parliamentary survey motion issued by Manisa MP Hasan Ören and 21 lawmakers to determine the issues in Turkey's foreign policy regarding the Middle East, to investigate peaceful foreign policy methods and to determine humanitarian aid methods for the Gaza people was submitted in 19/07/2014 to the Turkish Grand National Assembly's presidency (1455 row No. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations of the 20/07/2014 Sunday-day merger and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Hasan Ören, Manisa MP. Here you go, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0044par0401	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs today (July 20th) celebrate the 40th anniversary of Operation Peace in Cyprus. There is a resemblance to what happened today and what happened in Gaza in 1974. In 1974, I was a soldier in Ağar. I tried to do everything I could to join the Cyprus Peace Corps, as we all did in the excitement of youth. Our friends who are over 55 years of age remember very well in Cyprus, there was an understanding that killed and killed our descendants, our women, in the bathtubs, and in the face of that understanding, I wish God's mercy to our dead soldiers who lost their lives, to the late Mr. Bulent Ecevit, who took Ayþe on vacation. Today's events in Gaza are similar to those in 1974. My dear friends, so far, the children of 78 have lost the lives of 358 civilians. It is not possible to accept what happened in Gaza, to accept it, to digest what happened in Gaza. We all know that two days ago, we condemned Israel, condemned Israel, condemned it, condemned it, condemned Israel, and condemned it, together with the country's largest temple, the Great National Assembly of Turkey, the unity of the political parties, the people of Turkey, who represented 95 per cent of the people living in Turkey. The political parties that are outside of this condemnation and action have joined all of Turkey, but there is one thing that is missing, isn't this Parliament entitled to hear from Mr. Davutoglu, Mr. Prime Minister, about the Israeli tyranny in Gaza? Are we going to learn from newspaper clippings, columnists, CNN, what's in Gaza? I suppose this House should have that right. Isn't it true that in this Parliament, where hundreds of thousands of people have come to take the vote, in the name of a little more serious, a little more responsibility, the Secretary of State or the Prime Minister will come to this Parliament and inform us by performing a secret or open session, that the members of the Parliament, in which we represent the community on this matter, will also have the necessary information, the healthy information? My dear friends, we're past the time of the hammock lecture. For ten years, Gaza has really been a massacre. There is no political side to this, and this Parliament has shown its support for the government, with its opposition and its power. Now, what Mr. Davutoglu said at the 18/7/2014 World Conference of Islamic Scholars: "God is a witness that we are not allowed to sleep while those people are standing there." The word is actually true, but only if it remains a promise, it is wrong. Turkey has a lot to do. I'm not talking about the war we fought in Operation Peace of Cyprus; it was self-defense, where we protected ourselves. But there are many things that Turkey will do to Israel today. And when you look at them, Turkey's just dealing with the details, and God only knows that as long as the massacres are going on there, there's no sleep for us as long as the resistance lasts... I wish we'd solved the problem even if we didn't sleep. If not sleeping is going to solve the problem, he's 5 years old, 7 years old, 12 years old, if it's going to keep our children from being slaughtered, killed, we'll sit in Parliament, we won't sleep at all, but unfortunately there's no such thing. If the president of Venezuela, across the continent, is deporting the ambassador of Israel in the name of mankind, perhaps not in the name of the religion they believe in, but in the name of mankind, if the President of Chile can express all trade relations in the name of humanity, in response to the massacres there, we can't increase the resistance of those who died in Gaza through the word "sleeping or not sleeping." If you're asking what to do, the Justice and Development Party, which this Parliament has authorized, supported by this Parliament, will come here and say so. He's gonna tell us what he did, what he's gonna do.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0045par0407	Don't you have any ideas?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0044par0408	My dear friends, although Israel is so unfair, I am reducing my consulates in Turkey to the lowest degree because they cannot secure the Turkish government in action. If Israel, who has committed these massacres, wants to hear 77 million of what Turkey has said. Putting ribbons on, yes, it's true, it's a reaction. Let's all wear them. Swear to God, I swear to God... if not sleeping is the solution, let's do it too, but what do we do with the actions? What are we supposed to do, you tell us. Now, Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu is our candidate for President. Mr. President, in order to lower the tension in Turkey, even though the 3 presidential candidates don't need to invest in their accounts in their relief campaign...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0046par0410	What empathy!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0044par0411	...in the account of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP)'s candidate, Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) People's Party (HDP) People's Party (HDP) People's Party (HDP) People's Party (HDP) People's Party (HDP) People's Party (HDP) People's Party (HDP) People's Party (HDP) People's Party (HDP) People's Party (HDP) People's Party (HDP) Party) Party (HDP) have invested a thousand lira into the President's account. [[From the AK PARTY lines, God made him sing. They applaud, they applaud.]] Well, well, that's God's way of saying... you're fishing fast. You're quick on the hook.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0047par0414	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0044par0415	I hate to break it to you, but there's a good fish, and he hooks up real quick. Well, God makes you say that, but doesn't God make you say anything about the children who died in Gaza? Doesn't it make you say it? Are you speechless? Are you speechless?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0047par0416	We pray, we pray, we say, we say.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0044par0417	Now, Denizhattin Demirtaş said: "There's a lot of money in the other candidate, so send me his right." A good joke was answered with a good joke. And what did the Prime Minister do? He returned the money.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0048par0419	It's not enough, it's not enough.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0044par0420	He's right about himself, and there's no problem there. If all these people are dying in Gaza, if all these families, children are being slaughtered in front of all these mothers, isn't today the day to return the medal they received in America?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0049par0421	You're lying. It was given to Turkey for World War II.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0044par0422	Why? Why? He didn't? Can you tell me he didn't take it? Here's the full day. You will return the thousand liras, hide the medal given to you by the Jewish lobby in America...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0049par0424	You're lying! He gave it to Turkey, to Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0050par0425	We are not anti-Semites, we are against the terror of Israel.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0044par0426	It's the day to give it back, it's time to give it back today. Bring it on, let the Prime Minister give it back.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0050par0427	When it suits you, you become an anti-Semitist.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0044par0428	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0051par0430	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0052par0434	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's group proposal. I salute you all. I have the motion, and there's no way against this motion. I can't imagine any conscientious MP here would use it against this motion. As a disgrace to the Civil Charter, Mr. President said, "It's a shame," but, of course, both the speech and the votes we're about to give will be in favour of the motion. We're talking about a very important issue, and there's no point in discussing it in the General Assembly by making it a subject of polymics among political parties like this. We, of course, are going to criticize your foreign policy and Israeli policy as the opposition party and warn you of what you need to do with the solution. And I'm sure it would help all of us if you could come here and answer one by one what we've been critical of. Of course, we'd like to start by condemning and cursing the massacres of Israel, which have been recklessly carried on for days, taking from all of us, women, children, and lives, and hearts. We offer our condolences both to the Palestinian people and to all the Middle Eastern people, and to express our full support. The heart would wish that we had not only spoken here, not only as a condemned, conciliatory, or conciliating MP, but as a member of a country that actually does its part in every sense and relaxes the entire social conscience about it. But unfortunately, when we look at the current painting, we don't see it. In particular, there is a very bad test for the establishment of a ceasefire, the emergence of diplomatic efforts to ensure a permanent solution, the delivery of humanitarian aid needed by the Palestinians to Palestine, the AKP government, and we have to regret the fact that we can't see any signs of improvement in this matter. These reckless massacres and standing beside the Palestinian people are not going to happen by making some public statement or screaming. We would wish that you could feel your weight diplomatically, that every sentence you used was reflected in a diplomaticly reflected foreign policy, but as I said, unfortunately, we can't even talk about a sensitivity that the Prime Minister has created on the opposite side -- let alone a response -- by any government of the AKP. Now, in public, there are things that sound good. And when we look at the Prime Minister's statements, yes, it does sound good to all of us, and for the past few days, the United Nations have been calling on the Islamic countries to have a sensitivity, and they say that they need to take a clear stand against Israel. He says that our attitude toward Israel is clear and that it resets all our relationships. I mean, there's no way we can disagree with these statements, we agree with all of them. I wish this had all been done so that we could come here and appreciate you. Now, we've reset these relationships. I never think of anything positive with Israel. Islamic countries must be sensitive. It is easy to shout and shout in public about their calls, but at the point of doing what is necessary, we must come and tell the people of your position. That's what the public is voting for. Look, when we're talking about all these resetting relationships, we have answers from your ministry, from the ministries that depend on your government, to the question motions. In those answers, there was only a $2 billion collaboration agreement in the field of defence industry. If you remember, after Mr. Prime Minister's exit in 2009, we really think that relations with Israel have been reduced to the lowest level, commercial, military relations have been suspended, and some policies that will ease the public's conscience have been put into effect by the government. But, look, there is a response given here on 22 August 2012 by National Defence Minister Ismet Yilmaz's signature -- three years after that exit in Davos, and he says that the total cost of defence industrial cooperation projects, which are mostly completed between Turkey and Israel, is about $2 billion. We continue, December 19, 2012; again, with the signature of National Defence Minister Ismet Yilmaz, here is a question proposal that answers the part of drones that deal with Israel in contracts. I'm not going to talk long here because we're short of time, but now, look, when you have government responses like that, you have to put the hat in front of you and think about it. Since that's the case, there's no weight in your words, no one trusts your explanations. Now, you know very well what is done in Turkey about these Herons and drones. Thanks to these Herons, the Herons of Israel are now raining death on Gaza, but you and Heron have dropped bombs on the children of Roboski in Roboski, and you have signed under a massacre that destroyed 34 Kurdish children. You didn't ask a single person who was responsible for this massacre. You, now, condemn the massacres of children to Israel. How will you respond if the Israeli authorities rise up and say to you, "You also slaughtered in Roboski?" What did you do about the Roboski massacre? What would your answer be? Intimacy, friends, is extremely important both inside and out. Look, I'll continue: The answer from the Ministry of Economics, dated November 7, 2013, was the answer from Zafer Çağlayan. He's given it to me over the years, and I'll read from 2002, just export numbers and import numbers: export $861 million in 2002, imports are $544 million; imports are up by 2 billion in 2003; 1 billion, 83 million in 2004; $1 billion, $315 million in 2005; 1 billion, 467 million in TEDs increased, and friends who were up by $2 billion,330 million in 2012; and in response to the same response he gave to Israel after 2013, the volume of the trade has increased by 2 million. Look, $179 million in January, 198 million in February, $227 million in March, 207 million in April; that's how it goes up every month. Now, with these official answers, who do you think you're fooling? Is that what you call "Zeroming," growing military and economic commercial volumes every month, is that a thing, my friends? Likewise, the answer Nihat Zeybekci made to the motion is the same as the document on the trade of chemicals between Turkey and Israel, which can also be used in the production of chemical weapons. Dear friends, you don't have to yell and shout like that, we expect you to come up here and give us some reasonable and real answers to the data we've presented. Now, since yesterday, both the Republican People's Party's group has voiced its deputy president and today the writers have written many columns. There are clear questions: 1) Have you cut off all relations with Israel, and we don't know it? Did you deport the consuls? Israel displayed a clearer attitude, calling them back to his country because he had no safety. 2) You have reason to believe that Israel is a member of the OECD. It is said that you removed the signature two years ago, and Israel was a member of the OECD. 3) There are serious claims that jet fuels were provided by Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] 4) There are serious claims that the missile silo in the globe protects Israel. 5) Have you ever used a single sentence against the position of America defending Israel? The question about all this is too much to ask, and since we don't have time, I can't express it. We're waiting for the ruling party officials to come up here and give us some reasonable answers. I say we're in favor of the motion, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0053par0457	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Oktay Vural, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0054par0461	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's proposal. My respects to all of you. Of course, really, Israel's attacks have hurt our nation and the human community deeply, without speaking of children in Gaza or women, but unfortunately Israel, Gaza resists, but the world is watching. Really, honestly, we're going through a time when humanity is dying. Now, we have to have these conversations here, but we have issued a joint statement as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. At first, Mr. Sadik stated that we would publish, and he even said that a minister would come and inform Parliament that day, but unfortunately, it didn't. We signed under the manifesto, showed our will. Unfortunately, I see the government is not behind this declaration of Parliament. There was Mr. Nabi Avcı here, and I spoke to Mr. Secretary, and we'll arrange it right away, if you remember what he said. But the political significance of the government's absence of a Turkish Parliament for this purpose is that the government is not behind this will. However, Parliament and the government, together and together, we had to establish a will. But in order to show that such a will is not behind him, the government has deliberately embargoed to Parliament, has not, has not, has not, has not, has not, has not, has not, has not, has not. Now that we're here, the Republican People's Party's motion... my dear friends, as members of the group, they all have their signatures. Article 4 says that all parliaments -- I don't say the others -- governments, institutions expect and demand their common conscientious responsibility to the Palestinian people. The motion says that we signed together in order to determine humanitarian methods for the people of Gaza. Now, come on, as Parliament, how we're going to do this help, how we're going to organize it; let's all form an initiative together. So we're making decisions, as parliaments, to fulfill your conscientious responsibility for this. We're calling it. In order to fulfill this conscientious responsibility, I hope that a commission will be established for the parliamentarians to meet, and those who signed it will say yes. Let's set up the commission, and with the weaknesses of the foreign policy that constitutes such a policy of Israel, let's put together the will to help Gaza with humanitarian aid. If necessary, the research commission will go and determine how to deliver these humanitarian aid to Gaza. My dear friends, of course, about all this... Now there are steps that Israel has taken. I'm going to point out the government's wrongs here in 1996, but there was a strategy for Israel, especially in 1996, for Netanyahu today, called a clear stopover, a complete intermediary. This is the Israeli strategy in the year 2000, when the strategy was implemented. One of the most important issues of this Israeli strategy is no longer peace in exchange for land, but peace for peace. Look, his policy in the 2000s is based on this strategy: peace in the face of peace. What does that mean? If you want peace, if you want peace, you must make peace with me. This is a very important strategy change. Secondly, in this strategic document, the first eradication of Saddam (Saddam) in Iraq and the destruction of Iraq's support for Syria by creating a power of attorney war within Syria, has also been rendered ineffective in this regard. So, Israel says: "Let there be a balance of powers, not peace. Let the countries around me deal with the balance within themselves. While dealing with its own balances, let a war in Syria be fought through the sects or tribes there and thus ensure the safety of Israel. There's another thing that's been done: Lebanon... this border concerning Lebanon needs to be protected because the Syrian-Lubnan relationship is important, and you know that we brought UNIFIL to Lebanon in this framework. In fact, this was designed to secure Israel's border on Lebanon when it was looked at, and to secure its conflict with Hezbollah. If you recall, for the first time, Israel was said to have been defeated against Hezbollah. Now, what did your government do in this foreign policy with all these policies in the middle? The foreign policy is a foreign policy created entirely within the strategic aims of Israel. For him, you have to look at the bigger picture, and so far, the anti-Israelism or relations have always been used against citizens, but in essence, the policy that the government is implementing was a general goal of a policy that we call the Great Middle East Project, both Iraq policy, and the policy that this geography deals with its own balances according to ethnic and sects. One of the main goals of this project is to ensure Israel's safety, which is to include the Prime Minister as the BOP Co-Chair, as well as Turkey. That's the extent of the matter. In this regard, the extent of the internal turmoil in Syria and Turkey's support for the internal disturbances in Syria, the division of Iraq, especially Netanyahu, we know the Kurdistan. Dear friends, valuable parliamentarians, lawmakers, I beg you, look at the bigger picture. Not normalization, not that, not that. But, what happened? Wasn't the pipeline planned to ensure Israel's energy security? Didn't we send oil to Syria with agreements to come oil from the north of Iraq? Wasn't Turkey's trade shifted to Israel by policy today, and the shiplets don't work there? When we see this painting, we live in a period where our exports come from $1 billion to $5 billion. In that way, this is Israel's... Each state has its purpose and its goal, my dear brothers and sisters, we don't need to be suspicious of them. But what we need to question is, what are we doing? What's our government doing? At this point that we are here today, as a government, I beg you... We have prepared a declaration of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey here after the Blue Marmara. They remember those days. We had a proposal for the government to take effective measures: the Grand National Assembly of Turkey expects the Turkish government to review its political, military, economic relations with Israel, take the necessary effective measures. Let's remember those days. I had a press conference. Sir, we're already taking it. It's been said. In front of you, dear brothers and sisters, what effective measures have been taken by reviewing political, military, economic relations, and our trade in Turkey is increasing today? In hotel rooms, ministers are talking to Israeli ministers; John Kerry meets with the government to ensure that the gas and oil come to Turkey, as it releases oil and natural gas, creating a unique economic zone in Cyprus. You have to look at this general framework of the painting. In that way, at this point today... We don't look at it that way. The Palestinian terror is the violence of Israel. He said in 2004. At the time, Mr. Hussein was president of the Palestinian Friendship Group, and in his speech here in 2004, he said, "There must be effective measures." The transfer of Turkish soldiers to Palestine in peacekeeping or observer status, the implementation of deterrent sanctions along with the international community, the introduction of Turkey in order to free Arafat (Arafat) from isolation, the immediate halt of the construction of new settlements in the occupied Palestinian territory. What was it, my dear brothers and sisters, that was done? There's no way he's going to be able to talk like that, say "I'm sorry" and say "I'm sorry" half an hour after Davos. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... After that, I actually regret what I said to Shimon Peres. How much can we fool the nation with his expression? So I'm saying that Turkey should return to real politics, realistic politics, and especially reconsider its foreign policy. I offer my regards to all of you, saying that we are in favor of this motion, that voting for this motion is actually the commitment of all the groups that signed this declaration.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0055par0478	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Volcano Bozır, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Bozır.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0056par0482	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have received a pledge in our region of very sad developments under the scope of a research motion from the Republican People's Party today. In fact, about 400 Palestinian brothers, families, women, and more than a thousand wounded have been killed, and we are literally crying blood because of Israel's attacks on humanity's conscience and against international law, incompatible with state terrorism and legitimate state understanding. Naturally, in such an environment, it's very natural for the High Assembly to discuss, to discuss, to discuss what they can do about it, and I think it's very natural that, in this case, we've long wanted to see, perhaps regret that we didn't see it, and then we've developed the desire for solidarity, common movement among all the parties that have been found, and I'm very happy about it. Maybe we haven't seen a statement in a long time, a statement from the four groups together, the Human Rights Commission in the same way... we discussed a really serious text in the Foreign Commission yesterday for over an hour, we published a very strong statement, and we had a very serious contribution from all of our Commission members here, and I'm really happy about it. However, in its nature, I would like to share some information with you here. What did Turkey do after such attacks in Gaza were revealed as massacres, children, women, and children? First of all, we're trying to establish conditions for a ceasefire through bilateral contact. Because there's really no way the next steps will come out before the cease-fire. The fire needs to be extinguished first, and then, in the next steps, if the account is to be asked, if the measure is taken, but the first thing to do is to set this truce. After 50 people were slaughtered today, Israel agreed to a two-hour ceasefire, and only the dead will be able to move the wounded. So that's what we thought in the first place. Other than that, in the eyes of international organisations -- United Nations, Islamic Co-operation Agency, the United Nations Council of Human Rights -- we try to mobilize the international community by making all the initiatives. Really, it wouldn't be wrong to say that the international community here, in a sense, failed and failed the exam. The United Nations has become an organization that has been created recently after World War II, with its performance without success, which has never been able to achieve the function of solving problems, making peace in any way, and what we expect from the United Nations is really nothing more than a dream for today. The General Security Council of the United Nations has been convened the other day, and unfortunately, it's broken up in there without making any decisions about it. But, as Turkey, we strive to bring all these organizations to that point by making efforts to show the sensitivity and influence they do not show. Our Foreign Minister, of course, is in constant contact with the United States, Germany, Italy, Saudi Arabia, Qatar foreign ministers, in contact with Hamas leader Meşal. Also, a very important step had occurred with the Palestinians, and Hamas and Mahmoud Abbas had come to the point of moving together, forming a joint government, and unfortunately, with these recent developments, we see that this too has been compromised. However, after the ceasefire has been reached, we strive to ensure the continuation of this collaboration between Hamas and Abbas, as well as the preservation of the unity between them, as well as the end of instability and massacre in this region. We offer humanitarian aid to Gaza. In this scope, the Palestinian Programme Co-ordination Office of Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency is conducting efforts to provide food or other emergency supplies worth $1m in the first place to distribute to the needy. In addition, the president of Prime Ministerial Disaster and Emergency Management contributed to the Palestinian office of the World Health Organization for $1.5m. As part of the grant, work continues to distribute urgent medicine and medical supplies by the World Health Organization to those in need rapidly. Turkey's Red Cross is also active to provide food supplies for 2,000 families, as part of emergency aid work. Our country provides assistance to the Gaza Strip, through the Palestinian Refugees and Association Agency in the Near East of the United Nations. As part of the latest developments, preparations have also been made to forward the assistance of the UN for 2014 to the region during the coordination of AFAD.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0057par0491	Mr. Ambassador, we've been asking you for different information, and we've been waiting for you, and the State Department is not considering coming here to give us any information?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0058par0492	But he can't speak for the government, he's not acting.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0056par0493	Now, there are a few things I've said before, naturally, when I took this stand. Foreign policy is a really important and serious issue, and in foreign policy, words such as timing, discretion, privacy, and rightfulness are very, very important.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0058par0494	Is that what you're telling the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0059par0495	Are you talking to us?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0058par0496	The Prime Minister?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0060par0497	Abbas was interviewed. What was the meeting with Abbas? What's happened, what's over, and you won't give us any information about them?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0061par0498	Now, if they are not observed and are not really serious, and are going to share important matters around here just to get information, sometimes the steps that can be taken may not be taken. (CHP rows) Now, I'm saying this for this.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0062par0499	What did ISIS do? What happened in ISIS, our consulate employees?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0061par0500	Our very dear MP, who submitted this motion for research, began by confusing Gebze and Gaza in his speech here, and I was truly amazed.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0063par0501	Come on, that doesn't suit you. Could be, could be, would it suit the Ambassador to say that?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0064par0502	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0063par0503	Is that what you said to the ambassador?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0065par0504	Tell the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0066par0505	You're telling a story here.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0067par0506	I mean, how are we supposed to discuss the measures here after we confuse Gebze (Ghaza) and Gaza? Now, when you're asked what you think after that, we don't know anything, we ask you. Let's see what the government's doing, let's see what the AK is doing, let's make a decision based on it. Is that even possible?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0068par0507	You're the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission. Is this a good conversation for you?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0067par0508	Well, I'm turning this around; let's follow the example of what the opposition is doing. What did the opposition do? You got excited because our Prime Minister went to Somalia, you accidentally took your president to Nairobi, where he thinks he's still going.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0069par0511	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0070par0512	You too go to Iraq, Iraq. When you pray in Damascus, do it in Jerusalem, in the Mosque, in Aksa.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0071par0513	Mr. Ambassador, these are stale, you need to say something new, they're stale. You're repeating yourself, don't do it.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0072par0514	Socialist International is your area, go to Socialist Internationale, get a verdict out of there, and make decisions that will contribute to Turkey's case, to Palestine's case.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0071par0515	Children are dying in Gaza. Don't. People are dying, talk about them.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0072par0516	It's not going to work if you sit here and make a parliamentary inquiry motion here. You, however many murderers are in the area, whether it's Esad or Sisy, are in very good relations with all of them.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0073par0519	Ye feed Tariq Hashimi in the resorts, and feed ISIS.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0074par0520	The State Department's a hostage.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0075par0521	How much did you help ISIS?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0073par0522	That's what you did with ISIS.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0076par0523	We still remember the CHP MPs who shook hands with Assad. Go, then, and shake hands with Netanyahu, in Israel, perhaps because of this handshake of yours, Israel may enter into action to prevent the massacre in Palestine.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0077par0524	You can't curse murderers, you're out, you're out, you're out.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0076par0525	Besides, at this point where we're having a really important time, I find it helpful for all of us to act in cooperation.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0078par0526	The State Department's a hostage. The Consul's a hostage. You're sleeping with the Foreign Affairs Commission.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0079par0527	The consul's a hostage, you're the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0076par0528	Instead of trying to hurt each other... I also benefit from not putting Turkey's interests and the futures of our Palestinian brothers at risk in order to criticize the government.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0080par0529	How much did you help ISIS? When will he release the consulate officials?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0081par0530	Is it dangerous to call ISIS a terrorist? That's what you did with ISIS.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0076par0531	With these thoughts, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0082par0533	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0083par0534	Too bad, too bad! Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0084par0536	You need to learn from Faruk Logoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0085par0537	Mr. Koren, one second, I'll tell you one thing. We're negotiating a group proposal, sir, in two favours, two promises can only be made. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0086par0540	No promises, sir, and don't be judgmental, I'm just trying to fix one thing.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0085par0541	But don't fix it, it's not...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0086par0542	Just for the record.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0085par0543	There's no such procedure, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0086par0544	But is that a thing to say? I mean, is Gebze mixed with Gaza?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0085par0545	But not you, sir, please take your seat.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0086par0546	He was an ambassador, represented the country...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0085par0547	Mr. Ören, please take your seat, sir. Mr. Altay, do you have any demands?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0086par0549	...can a person describe a slip of the tongue on this bench in such a small way?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0085par0550	Mr. Kören...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0086par0551	I'm referring you to the Turkish public.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0087par0552	Take a lesson from Osman Taney Kurkurk, and learn from Faruk Logoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0088par0553	And the Prime Minister said, "I didn't give my son any good money."
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0089par0554	Yes, I will submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes. 4-Current of Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; Ankara MP Izzet Çetin; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party Deputy MP Oktay Köçal; İstanbul MP Sena Kallıtı's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Balukı; İstanbul MP İzken's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Çeçı; Ankara MP İzket Balukı's Party's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Democratic Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP İdıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK) and İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK).
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0090par0557	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0089par0558	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Demir, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Öner, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Çayoğlu, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Serten, Mr. Serticer, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Özsel, Mr. Özgüşük, Mr. Özsel, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Sereli... I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Kars MP Yunus Kılıç and Amassian MP Avni Erdemir and 79 MPs who are ranked in the 3rd ranking position of President of the Health Institutes of Turkey and the Constitutional Proposal and Health, Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Plan and Budget Commission Report, which is ranked in the 4th place, with 108 legal proposals for the amendments to certain Laws and Laws. Number: 639) [[x]] The commission and the government are in place. In the past session, the motion on the 26th article, in the second part of the bill, which was considered the basic law, according to the 91st Article of the Civil Code. I will now read and process the third and final motion on the article, Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu and his friends' motion...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0091par0588	I have a request, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0089par0589	You have a request, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0091par0592	Mr. President, thank you. Very briefly, I'd like to make a point. Now, since yesterday, a mass event has been organised in Suruç and Birekik district of Urbana, to protest the attacks of ISIS gangs against Rojava, and to support the people of Rojava, as well as to make Turkey's policy of Rojava visible. Our people who are going there, they want these demands we've been talking about to be on the agenda. Since yesterday, however, there have been more than 10 people injured, especially with the lethal intervention of security forces, as of this hour, heavy as one. Starting at midnight, we have been unable to reach the Governor of Urbana since midnight, although we have repeatedly reached the Ministry of Interior officials and the State Department officials in order to resolve the current tension and remove the crisis. Even with our deputies in the area and all the attempts we made through the phone, the Governor of Urbana is not responding, even though he is in the dwelling. This attitude, this attitude of the Governor of Urbana, above all, is disrespectful to the will of the people. Despite our talks with elected Ministry officials, we complain to the government and the government first that the Governor of Urbana is indifferent to the initiatives we have made in order to find out what solutions we're going to offer to reduce the information and tension. If we say that authority is a unconditional nation, we will never agree that an appointed civil servant should be in such a position to discredit the chosen will of the people. In this regard, both you and the government of the Court of Presidents must put this Governor of Urbania in his place at once. The Governor of Urbana does not run the family company or his own father's private farm there, but performs public service on the government's taxes. I say he must learn to respect the chosen will of the people when he performs the public duty. In this regard, I invite you both to meet the requirements of the government.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0092par0598	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. You know, this is not a matter of the Presidential Court or the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0091par0600	There is an insult to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0092par0601	But the representative of the government, Mr. Secretary, is here, listening to the words, and I think they'll do as they're told. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0091par0603	No way. Mr. President, he's ignoring the House. It's the 10th time we've had the power plant tied up... is that rude? It does not concern the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0092par0604	Please, Mr. Baluken, the subject of the execution, Mr. Secretary, has heard it, and he will surely do what he has to do. Thank you. 4-Current of Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; Ankara MP Izzet Çetin; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party Deputy MP Oktay Köçal; İstanbul MP Sena Kallıtı's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Balukı; İstanbul MP İzken's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Çeçı; Ankara MP İzket Balukı's Party's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Democratic Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP İdıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK) and İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK). Number: 639) [[Continue]] Now, I'm re-reading the Republican People's Party motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment to Section 639 shall be changed in the form of the amendment to Article 17 of the KDV Law (g) and the surrender between the stockholders. Bulent Kuşoglu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0093par0615	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0092par0616	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0094par0617	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0092par0618	Bkent Kuşoğlu, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0095par0621	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 26th Amendment. I salute you all. The 26th article, the gold, the gold, the gold, the gold, and the precious stones were previously exempted from the added value tax in 2004; we continue this only in terms of market-related transactions. So, you know, there was a lot of debate about the exception of the value-of-addity tax that was brought in 2004 -- why is there an exception to add value to jewelry, gold, silver, precious stones, and the value-value tax is taken, but there's a value-of-the-food tax? Now, we're making a change in this, we're not zeroing in on the added value tax, but the exception of this added value tax in terms of market transactions continues. This means that for larger companies, for companies who have created chains on this issue, this process will continue to benefit from the exception of the value-appropriate tax for companies on the road to institutionalisation. And I'd like to offer this to your appreciation. Dear lawmakers, exceptions in the Added Value Tax Act have been counted under four titles in Article 17; exceptions with cultural and educational purposes; exceptions for social purposes, exceptions for military purposes, and exceptions for other exceptions. These are among other exceptions. As I said earlier, this exception was made in 2004, and the exceptions in this 17th article can still be criticised; there are very unjust ones, and very unnecessary ones. Speaking of taxes, my dear friends, let me tell you that our tax revenues have dropped significantly, especially in June. For example, as of last year's June, there was a collection of 26 billion 705 million, and now there is a reduction in 2014 to 24 billion 757 million. This particular reduction in corporate taxes is at stake. There is a 87 percent decline between 2013 and 2014 in the first six months. There's been a particularly large decrease in the value-of-the-inclusion tax. The declines in the value-appropriate tax and imports show that the market has become very stagnant, and the volume of trade in the market is worsening. You in particular need to be informed, which is a sign of great distress. In fact, the Treasury Department, our Treasury Minister, should have come and briefed us on this; there's been a significant decline. The added value tax received last year dropped from 3 billion to 567 million last year to 2 billion, 794 million dollars last year, and the VAT, which was imported last year, dropped from 6 billion to 137 million dollars to 4 billion 944 million dollars; minus 19.4. So, in general, as I've just said, it's in tax revenues of -7.3. That means a lot, and I'm putting it to your attention. And you may have noticed during last night's debate that Mr. Labour Minister Steel came up on my speech and said: "There have been benefits for the Social Security Agency to be united under one roof, not as they were told. For example, social security deficits are now reduced to $19 billion. Mr. Development Minister Yilmaz is here today. I'm moving from the Development Department's data. There is no 19 billion-dollar deficit. According to the Ministry of Development data, budget transfers, transfers from the budget were 77 billion dollars to the Social Security Agency this year, and 72 billion dollars last year, so there's no point in deceiving ourselves this year. These are the statistics of the state, the figures of the state, the figures of the Ministry of Development. I'd appreciate it if Mr. Yilmaz would tell us more about this. But we need to know that the social security deficits are constantly increasing, there's no goal in social security with a single roof, there's trouble going on, especially unregistered work has increased, unfortunately, bored, we're unable to cover our entire population. We need to know, we need to see. There's no point in calling them "smalls" by deceiving ourselves. And there are some things that I've just said about tax revenues, and I'm going to continue with them, but in my later talks, I particularly want to figure out the subject. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0096par0631	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. There are three motions on Article 27: ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Manisa MP Erkan Akçayoğlu; İstanbul MP Mustafa Kalaycı and MHP Group MP Oktay Ökal, MP of the National Movement Party of İzmir MP Oktay Ökal; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Millitist Movement Party Group MP Oktay Öçal; İstanbul MP Mektay Başçalı; İstanbul MP Meş MP Mestay Akçayoğlu; İstanbul MP Mustafa Kalajcı and MP Oktay Ökkal; İstanbul MP Mustafa Kökal; Diyarbakır MP Sadir Durmazı and MP Merkılı İzklılı MP İzklı MP İzkı MP of the Parliament's Party of the Parliament; Mehmet Merkıkıkıkı MP Mşın Akkın Akçı MP; Mehmet Mekın Köçı Akçı MP and Akçı Akçı MPıkı MP of the Parliament's Party of the Parliament's Party of the İstanbul Group of the Parliament; Mehmet Akçıkı MP of the İstanbul Group of the Democratic Party of the Parliament and Akçı MP of the Minister of the Parliament and Akçı MP of the Democratic Party of the Minister of the Minister of the Democratic Party of the Democratic Party of the Democratic Party of the Democratic Party of the Democratic Party of the Democratic Party of the Democratic Party of the Parliament; Mehmet MP of the Democratic Party of the Democratic Party of the Minister of the Minister of the Democratic Party of the Parliament of the Minister of the Democratic Party of the Democratic Party of the Democratic Party of the Democratic Party of the Democratic Party of the Democratic Party (HDP of the Democratic Party of the Democratic Party of the Democratic Party (HDP). of the Democratic Party of İstanbul (HDP of İstanbul (HDP of the Democratic Party of İstanbul (HDP of Turkey). of the Party of the Party of the Party of the Party of the Party of the Party of the Party of the Party of the Party of Turkey). of the Parliament of the Democratic Party of the Party of the Party of the Party of the Democratic Party of Turkey (HDP of Turkey). of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Party of the Party of Turkey and the Party of the Party of the Party of Turkey (HDP of the Party of Turkey and the Party of the Party of the Party of Turkey (HDP of Turkey (HDP of Turkey) and the Party of Turkey (
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0097par0638	You're saying that again, Mr. Bayram. [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Burdur MP Bayram Özçelik]] Mesin MP Mehmet Şandir; İstanbul MP Durmiş Ali Torlak and Milliyetci Movement Party MP Mehmet Şandir; Osmaniye MP Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu and MHP Group MP Mehmet Şandir; Kastamon MP Emin Çandir; MP Durmün İzkı, İstanbul MP Oktay Sikal; Kastamü MP Emin Çınar and Milliyetcı Movement Party; Minister of the Minister's Party's Party; Minister of the Council of Ministers, Şakyı, Şaşı, Şaşımımıtımı, Balık, Balık, Balık, Balık, Balık, Balıkı, Balık, Balıkı, Balıkı, Balık, Balıkı, Balık, Balık, Balık, Balık, Balık, Balık, Balılı, Balık, Balık, Balılı, Balı, Balılı, Balı, Balı, Balı, Balı, Balı, Balı, Balı, Balı, Balı, Balılı, Balılı, Balılı, Balılı, Balılı, Balılı, Şılı, Şılı, Balılı, Balılı, Balılı, Balılı, Balılı, Balılı, Balılı, Balılı, Balılı, Balılı, Balılı, Balılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şılı, Balılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şılı, Balılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şılı, Balılı, Şılı, Şerılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şerılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şelı, Şılı, Şar, Balılı, Balılı, Şılı, Balılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şılı, Şılı, Balılı, Şılı, Şer, Şer, Şer, Şer, Şılı, Şer, Ş
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0098par0641	It's not like you're missing 2/1!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0099par0642	Sir, Mr. President, let him read what's written.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0098par0643	Where'd the two-percenters go?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0100par0644	They're all fuckin'
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0098par0645	It's okay...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0101par0646	No, sir, you don't have to read...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0102par0647	Are you the smartest man in the House?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0101par0648	He'll read what's written.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0102par0649	Let him read it again, Mr. President, he's short-read it.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0101par0650	It's as read as written. [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Burdur MP Bayram Özçelik]] 2/1888, 2/1716, 2/1747, 2/1765, 2/1775, 2/1794, 2/1799, 2/1808, 2/1837, 2/1869, 2/1899, 2/1906, 2/1924, 2/1932, 2/1954, 2/1957, 2/1963, 2/1983, 2/2032, 2/2032, 2/2041, 2/2051, 2/2051, 2/2056, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21. Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı Mustafa Kalaycı Seyfettin Yilmaz Sumer Oral Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0103par0659	Congressmans, I'm going to take the two motions I'm going to now read in the same context, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the 27th article, which stipulates to add temporary material to Law 3065 of the current 639 Numbered Bill of Laws. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan The signatures of the other motion are: Musa Pine Ramadan Kerim Özkan of Rahmi Love Levent Gök Mahmut Tanal İlhan Demiröz Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0104par0672	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0103par0673	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0105par0674	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0103par0675	Yes, Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who wants a word on the motions. Here you go, Mr. Tiger.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0106par0678	Yes, dear lawmakers, in this motion, we would like to remove this nonessential clause. The SGK will receive more than 20 billion. He can't collect, and when he can't, he goes into action, and when he does, he buys real estate. Well, he wants a VAT exemption to sell them, too. What kind of a thing is that, guys? I can't sell, I can't find customers. If you say so, everyone knows what's going on with these auctions. I mean, what privilege do you have? I mean, he's got debtors, he's got creditors, you're gonna protect both sides when you get something. You can't sell it if it's good, if it's worth more than it's worth. There's a fact here, so it's more than just a missing fugitive thing. Now, here's the thing: more than 19 euros of fiscal forgiveness have arrived. Do you really think you can get what this SGK has to offer? So you're guessing something like this could be a deterrent? The citizen says that somehow, in three years, five years of amnesty, the AK PARTY has been routineized until its 2023 vision. We ask that this unnecessary clause be removed because it is contrary to the Constitution, due to an inequality of the prosecution, the defendant, and the parties. Dear friends, I'd like to make a point: In the village of the visit of the individual -- our MPs there -- the ISIS gangs have been attacking Kobani for days. These ISIS gangs who attacked Kobani announced that they would enter Kobani on July 19 because Kobani declared his freedom on July 19th, and then attack Kobani (Kobani) with the tanks they had taken from Mosul, the army, with the high weapons, and with all their power. There are Turks and Arabs in Kobani. Now, the people there, that canton together, stand together and give the best example of resistance, the best example of solidarity. On the same front, both the Kurd and the Turkmen (Turkmen) and the Arab (Arab) fight together. How many times have we asked: is the government helping these ISIS elements? How does he see it? Mr. Atalay said it was a terrorist organization of ISIS. If it is a terrorist organization, why is it allowed to tolerate their activities and attacks? Why are they in and out of Turkey? Why are they making these attacks? Of course, we condemned the entire Palestinian attack together, and yet we condemn it. I'm telling you, from here on out, when there's an attack on the Kurds, he doesn't seem to mind. I mean, I'm out of this Parliament and I'm condemning a human being for these ISIS attacks against these gangs... Who has been feeding on these heads-cutting, ripping out the lungs of these people, bombing mosques, burning the Palestinian flag? But it's more than that. Our party and the Democratic Party of Regionals are being attacked last night, a disproportionate attack, our MPs are being hit. Our vice president has been calling the Governor of Urbana six times in the morning. The governor of Şanlıurfa is not answering the phone. He's not answering the phone of a party with a group in parliament during this solution process. Sir, the Minister of the Interior, who he's tied to, when his assistant leaves, when his undersecretary leaves, the governor doesn't come out. Whose governor is this governor, the governor of the state, or is he a governor of someone, or is he connected to ISIS? What is it that makes him so arrogant that he can't get on the phone with a group of vice presidents who come at the will of the nation in this Parliament, who is he? How can you throw such statesmen into that sensitive area? You're damaging the solution process. We're warning you, get them out of there. He must resign immediately, and you must relieve him immediately. If you don't, you and the governors won't be able to bring this process, I'm making it very clear. He won't make a phone call. We don't expect governorship. He's no longer governor, friends, and we're condemning. We also urge the government to be sensitive.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0107par0688	Thank you. Mahmut Tanal İstanbul MP has asked for a statement on the same proposal. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0108par0692	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, the 27th article in this bill and the proposal is about the property that the Ministry of Social Security will buy, the VAT exemption...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0109par0695	What's he saying, what? Mr. Hasip, what is it, what does it say? What's he arguing for? Why don't you call the power plant? How dare you be so rude? What are you defending?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0110par0696	Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Kaplan, please sit down.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0109par0697	We call on the government to sensitivity. That's rude!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0111par0698	Mr. President, he's here to see you. Call, make a phone call, make sure...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0112par0700	Mr. Kaplan, the speaker is on the stand. Please, have a seat.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0111par0701	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0112par0702	But please sit down. We did, we just talked about it.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0111par0703	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary here says he has an alibi. Let him answer.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0113par0704	Don't make it up, cover it up.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0112par0705	But there's no such thing. Talk to the Minister outside.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0111par0706	Urbana MP says: "I have spoken. Let him come out, let him answer." We can't deal with the governor like this. For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0112par0707	Mr. Kaplan, the group vice president just spoke. It's not style. The speaker is waiting on the stand.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0111par0708	Let him out, let him answer. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0114par0709	Mr. Secretary is calling and making up a cover, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0112par0710	You must at least show respect, Your Honor. We've spoken, we've explained, Mr. Secretary has listened, what should we say?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0111par0711	He called us, Mr. Secretary and the Urban Congressman.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0112par0712	Mr. Kaplan, please sit down. The speaker is waiting here on the stand. Respectfully, Hatibe.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0111par0713	Mr. President, I want an answer from the government that summoned me. The government comes out and answers there.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0112par0714	Mr. Tanal, please. I'm rebooting your time.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0111par0716	That's it, that's it from now on.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0112par0718	Just a moment, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0111par0719	The language you understand. It's the language you understand.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0112par0720	Mr. Tanal, please. I'm rebooting your time.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0115par0722	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Of course, when it comes to speaking, the people of Şanlıurfa are victims, and the people of Şanlıurfa are desolate. Glory is the land of the prophets. At Şanlıurfa, electricity is now out, electricity is out for six hours a day. Is the governor asleep? Where is the governor of this state? Where is the governor of this government?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0116par0725	If that happens to the governor...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0117par0726	It's his father's farm.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0115par0727	In Şanlıurfa, health problems include two or three children in each hospital bed. Where is the Governor of Şanliurfa? Where is the Minister of Health? Şanlıurfa's problem of education: 60 or 70 people in each class study in the classrooms. Where are the MPs of Şanlıurfa, the Minister of this Şanlıurfa, the Governor of Şanlıurfa?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0117par0729	He's in business with ISIS!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0115par0730	Where are the ISIS workers, who are also collaborators? [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] The environmental problem of Şanlıurfa is that all the filthy sewer waters of Ataturk Dam are flowing. When will this health problem of Şanlıurfa be resolved? Şanlıurfa's transportation problem: Ahmet Aydın Bey, Adıyaman MP. Brother, when will you end your double journey between Bozova and Adıyaman? When will the ministry take care of this Urbana? Şanlıurfa's tourism problem: Once a week, there is a direct plane, and after that it must be transferred. Our citizen pays for the world. Double transfer pays for double tickets. It's a shame, isn't it? Where are the MPs of Urbana? Where are the ministers of Urbana? [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] The seasonal labor problem of Urbana is that all the seasonal workers of Urbana are devastated. None of them have any guarantees. Kids can't go to school. Because of seasonal labor, the children of the Urban family were removed from school two months ago. In that sense, the Urbans are victims. At the same time, the unemployment issue: Turkey's most unemployment problem is in Şanlıurfa. But Shanlıurfa is the one who voted for the most power in Turkey. It's a big contrast. Look, the Şanliurfas are awake now. Şanlıurfalı will now bury the AKP in the chest.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0118par0739	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0115par0740	So, in that sense, the governor you sent to Şanlıurfa... you made the governor you sent to Şanlıurfa. Were there no people in Urbana, my brother? So you're importing people from outside when you're dealing with the self-absorbed sons of Urbana. Urbans aren't unclaimed.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0119par0742	Go back to your own party. Were there no men importing the President?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0115par0743	Listen to the Urbans. Your deputies aren't defending you here. Your deputy ministers here don't defend you. If there's one party that defends you, it's the Republican People's Party. Now, about the law. Mr. Hasip Kaplan told me. Mr. Secretary, you're saying that the citizen is a victim. We'll take his property in the company. You say. Right, good.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0120par0745	Mr. Tanal, if you'd like, talk about the motion.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0115par0746	Isn't the goal to increase demand? If it's increasing the demand, then what should we do? If our citizen debtor's property is being sold, if it's being sold in action, the real goal is to sell the real estate at the highest price that can increase demand. Well, if we're going to sell the real estate at the highest price, if an outside buyer comes in, it's going to raise the price, but if the public agency goes in, it's going to buy it at a lower price because it's exempt from VAT. Isn't that inequality? Isn't that unfair? So you hit one when you're in debt. You know what's supposed to happen? If the third person on the outside offers $100, the institution has to buy it for $110. Isn't that the social justice principle? You're going to get a lower number than a citizen's offer, which is against equality; it's against justice; it's against order. What other country in the world has passed such a law? There's no law. Now, property under 150 square meters is taxed by over 1.50 square meters of real estate, 18 per cent in the fields, 18 per cent in the fields. So, are there any real estate here that hasn't been sold because of the VAT? Bring them all to me, and I'll find you the customers of all of them. You're not sincere about this. So because of the VAT, none of the debtors' assets have been sold. In this respect, I invite the government to make the right, proper, fair law. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0121par0752	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Mr. Secretary, I believe you have a statement to make.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0122par0757	Thank you, Mr. President. There's just been a complaint that the Governor of Urbana hasn't returned his calls. So we called him right away because our deputy had his number. Mr. Governor says there's a troubled, troubled area situation in our Suruç region, and that he's been working in the area until morning, he's not at his residence, so he can't answer that question, and no one in his pocket is looking for it. These situations happen from time to time, excuses happen. Of course, it's our common desire that the governors, the public officials, respond as quickly as possible, but due to some of the situations that have happened from time to time, the public officials may not have been able to make the most of their situation, so I think it's better to evaluate them after they've fully understood them. And the people of Urbana know very well how much we have invested in Urbana, and we have invested in Urbana, as part of the multimillion-dollar GAP project. From the main channels to all social infrastructure, we've invested 18 quadrillion liras in Urbana. Since this is well known to the people of Urbana, he continues to support us in every election. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0123par0762	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0124par0763	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0125par0764	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0123par0765	Wait a minute, group...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0125par0766	Okay, let the Hasip answer on behalf of our group, because there's false information.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0123par0767	Here, take your seat.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0126par0768	Standing up?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0123par0769	On your feet, please...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0126par0770	No, I mean, whatever you want, it's fine.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0123par0771	Sit down, I'll turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0126par0772	It's all right, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0123par0773	Mr. Kaplan, but, look, it's not something to talk about on the stand. You said something to the Minister, sit down, I promise. What more do you want, it's not clear.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0127par0774	What's not clear about lying and giving false information?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0123par0775	Yeah, okay, I promise. Sit down, I promise.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0128par0776	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0127par0777	We'll inform the General Assembly. How do you manage it?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0123par0778	Mr. Kaplan, I promise you, I don't understand what else you want.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0128par0779	Okay, okay...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0127par0780	Every sentence he says is a lie, every sentence is the wrong sentence.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0128par0781	But don't hit us in the head when you promise. For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0129par0782	What do you mean? I promise, what more do you want? Isn't that what I'm asking?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0128par0783	All right, Mayor, all right, all right.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0129par0784	Tell me what your intentions are.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0128par0786	Today, friends of the House plant, our Group Chairman has called the Governor of Şanliurfa six times, he hasn't been on the phone, but he's on a quest for Mr. Gök (Ganlıurfa) MP, Mr. Minister, whenever he wants to go out on a quest. Our MPs are being beaten, the will of the nation is being beaten. The President of this House has to protect members who were attacked when the nation's MPs were attacked, protect lawmakers, give them accurate information. You're not the governor's attorney here. The MPs of Şanlıurfa are not the governor of the AKP MPs, he is not the governor of your party; he is the tax collector of the state. Either he will be governor of the state, or he will be the partisan governor of the EC PARTY, or he will be governor of ISIS, and there is no other option.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0130par0787	He won't be able to sit there either.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0128par0788	The law will be held equal to everyone, Mr. President, that's our rebellion. Our rebellion is a false report, and a lie is answered, and the truth is not spoken. What do you mean, a group of vice presidents is going to call a governor here, and he's not going to come out of the Capitol plant -- get the records, sir -- but when the AKP ruling party calls the governor, he's going to come out as a jerk? Then he's done, he's at ease, but otherwise he's in a very troubled area, unable to respond at all. Is that an approach? What state do we live in? That's not acceptable. I want you to look after your MPs as the Presidential Court and get some information, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0131par0789	Thank you. I'll call.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0128par0790	We also urge the government to be sensitive about this. It's not a piece of cake anymore. The Middle East is all there is to know. Everyone has to take the right step. We're all responsible.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0131par0791	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0132par0800	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0131par0801	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0133par0802	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0131par0803	Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0134par0806	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of our Nationalist Action Party Group to propose a amendment on Article 27 of the Law on Reconstruction of Some Acquisitions by Business Law 639. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, we've been discussing the bag of law for 45 days, and in the meantime, we've been surrounded by blood. In the month of Mubarak Ramadan, we have been discussing the bag of law for 45 days in an environment where the blood of the Muslim people flowed out of the gutter, where mankind faced a tragedy. Now, the President of the Foreign Commission, Volcano Bozır, has just made a speech here. I really want to say that as an ambassador, I don't think it's right for him to have this conversation. It says here that these issues are not issues to talk about here. Now, these are not issues to discuss in public. The top body, which is represented by the national will, is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Well, Mr. Ambassador, what you've told these MPs here... Mr. Prime Minister spends 15 or 20 minutes of his speech on the rally grounds every day... on these issues, the porter bores with speeches. I met him on TV yesterday by chance, and the Foreign Minister tells about Syria on the EC Youth platform in Istanbul, about Israel, about the persecution against Palestine. For God's sake, lawmakers, I'm asking you, where has this Secretary of State been for four months? I mean, there's Muslim blood out there, there's a human drama going on, there's a state terror going on, while babies are being slaughtered, women are being slaughtered, hundreds of Muslim brothers are being slaughtered there, while the Foreign Minister, the Prime Minister, will be preaching in the squares, but we won't be discussing these things in the Turkish Grand National Assembly! Is that even possible? And the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission will say, "These are not the issues to talk about here." I mean, are you making fun of these MPs here? Are these MPs your handlers, and when someone gives instructions, these MPs will work here for 14 hours, and they will follow your instructions? For days, we said that as opposition party, there was a work accident, a job murder in Soma. Let's get this out in a day before the Ramadan. I'm asking: If you've given the forest to a company in the Law of the Forest, you're going to attract it, what's this stuff doing here? What's the matter with the officers doing here, the bag is in the law? What's that stuff doing here? What's there to do with a bunch of allies? Is this the day of Ramadan for us? What are we doing here, with our fast mouth, other than hurting each other? So, let's ask ourselves, the precious MPs, they can't find any food there. When those kids are looking at the sadness behind the trucks in Palestine, not knowing where they're going, you, the Secretary of State, are going to feed the AK Youth in the golden bowls, but you're not going to inform the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are you? Mr. Prime Minister, when you leave, if you love God, what did you say happened? The gutter is around us, and the blood of the Muslim is flowing in Syria, and the blood of the Muslim is flowing in Iraq, and the blood of the Muslim is flowing in Palestine. There you are, children, innocent children, murdered by state terror, dating, condemning. I also condemn and condemn the injustices done there a million times.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0135par0813	Why don't you keep your mouth shut? You're making our heads...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0134par0814	What am I supposed to talk about?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0135par0815	What are you yelling about on a holy day?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0136par0816	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0137par0817	He's gonna ask you how to talk?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0138par0818	It might hurt. Now I ask you, on Ramadan day, there are weapons in trucks that go to ISIS, captured in Adana. If the weapons in the trucks captured in Adana have gone to ISIS to take them to the opposition in Syria, and the blood of the Muslim Turkmen have been spilled with them, who will pay for it in God's name on this Ramadan day? I'm not going to yell at this, but what am I going to yell at? We're burning inside. Mr. Prime Minister, why don't you speak up when you're yelling?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0139par0819	You're slandering me!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0138par0820	He yells every day, yells every day on TV, but the blood keeps flowing.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0139par0822	You talk like that every time you go out.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0140par0823	Mr. Hawk, please.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0138par0824	You know who's bleeding? The blood of the Muslim is constantly flowing. Yeah, these can touch you; I'm gonna scream, I'm gonna say it. You don't decide, the President decides.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0141par0825	Don't talk, it doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0140par0826	Yes, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0142par0828	The decision is...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit01spe0140par0829	I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0140par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 639 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on Article 28: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Numbered Bill of Law (also referred to as the 639 Orders) be replaced by the 28th Amendment in Article 3201, dated 8/5/1985, under Article 3201. İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Sebahat Tuncel ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party; İstanbul MP Mustafa Kalaycı and Milliyettic Movement Party Group Deputy Chair Oktay Ökalal; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetlı Movement Party Party Party (Secreecution Party) Chair and MP Oktay Öçal; President of the Minister's Party's Democratic Party (HDP) and MP İzkali İzmir MP Oktay Öçalal; Mayor's MP Oktay Öçı; Minister's Minister's Minister's MP and Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Democratic Party's Minister's Minister and Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's MP, Mes Minister's Minister's MP, Mes Minister's MP, Mes Minister, Mes Minister'ut Dede Akçayçayoğlu; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's MP's Minister of the Minister's Party; Mehmet's MP's Minister's MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Minister's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Minister's MP's MP's deputy's Minister's deputy's MP's MP's MP's Minister's MP's MP's deputy's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's deputy's MP's Minister of the Minister of the Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's MP's MP's MP's Minister's MP's Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0143par0013	It reads "MHP (MHP)," the National Party of Action.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0144par0014	Mr. President, how many times have we warned you, it says "MHP" and it says "National Movement Party" there. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Bkent Belen Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Sumer Oral Mehmet Şandir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Ramadan Kerim Özkan Mahmoud Tanal Rahmi Love Türeli Musa Pine Ilhan Demirözeş Levent Gök Article 1 of the Law on the Evaluation of Foreign Security of Turkish Citizens abroad, dated 28-8/5/1985 and 3201, has been changed as follows. "MEDDE 1-The period of health insurance which has been passed abroad and documented as Turkish citizens since they were 18 years old and lost Turkish citizenship in order to be granted permission to be Turkish citizens and out of the country by birth, and their periods of unemployment, which are up to a year in each and every one of them, and their periods of stay-in-home as a housewife, are assessed in accordance with the Law's requirements, and in accordance with their wishes, social security measures. "No matter what date or reason the social security agreement came from the unsigned countries, the period of their work abroad and documented according to this law is assessed in terms of social security in binding a pension of old age, whether it comes from social security agencies that reside in Turkey, dated 1/7/1976, and whether they receive a monthly income or not."
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0145par0032	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0146par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0145par0034	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0147par0035	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0145par0036	Volcano Canalioğlu, Tripoli MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Canalioğlu.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0148par0039	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I strongly condemn the terror of the state of Israel from here, in the presence of the nation, and in your presence. Of course, the Grand Middle East Project Co-Chair and Foreign Minister say nice things about it every night, iftar or sahhur, and they're called out, and they're called out, and they're strongly condemned, but the picture in the end is waiting, and unfortunately, there's still no news from our citizens who are hostages in Mosul, and there's still no press cover against it, and we're not sure what to do or what to do, and we're waiting for them. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're discussing the bag of law here. This bag of legislation has been discussed in the Commission for 37 days; there have been violent conflicts, there have been fights, and as a result, it has come to parliament, and despite the fact that the House is a holiday, it has been extended and we are working, we are doing our duty to the nation. And while we're doing that, we're here from time to time to be hard on each other. Dear friends, we must not ignore this nation's noble feelings when we are being harsh with each other. Look, on May 13, 2014, two months and seven days before that, 301 of our citizens were killed in the mine disaster in Soma. And in the future, there are a number of laws in favor of them and their families, but there's one thing that's been overlooked here: I'd like to present to you here as a lesson in the wonderful human emotions that are happening there as well as in trying to benefit them from the future lives of their families. See, Murat Yalçın, the longtime worker trapped in the mine, is rescued 11 hours later, being carried on a stretcher by a lifeguard while his boots are coal black, so he takes their feet out of the gurney. The nurse helps, Aman, let me not step on the gurney with my feet, and let the gurney get dirty, and let her go and save the rest of my friends who remain in the mine. Hasan Demirci, from the lucky miners who survived Soma Hell, is enjoying the joy of getting home safely to his family. Hasan Demirci says he is cold in the mine fighting for life and death with his friends, and I am cold in the company of his fellow men. His companion, who is present with him, unwaveringly takes off his sweater and gives it to Hassan. Hasan Demirci manages to get out of hell, the owner of the sweater can't come out, he's dying, and while he's in the ground delivering his soul, he's killing his friend. Hasan Demirci says he'll keep that sweater as a souvenir. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, that's what makes this nation noble, that's what sustains it, that's how it feels. As he died, this noble miner who allowed his friend to live will be remembered for years as a hero of human history. And a father. One of the workers who lost his life in the Soma massacre comes out of the palm of his hand, son, give him his due. It says on paper. Isn't it interesting, dear lawmakers, that a man facing death is asking his son for legitimacy? Why? Because he didn't complete his duties as a father, leaving him alone in the harsh conditions of the world. What a virtue it is to think of your son in the last breath of a man, what a great pride, dear lawmakers. And those who abuse their responsibility and pocket billions of dollars of their fellow citizens have ever once thought of taking the legal rights, my dear friends? These human lessons should be very important to us. Again, Jonah lost his life in Soma the Mighty, in the mine in the Darkale region. Here, the Tripoli cradle, Ahmet Kaya, survives there, but he dies in the mine, and his wife, Necla Rock of Tripoli, has failed to bear the pain of her child, and thus becomes the smallest casualty of this disaster. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, on this occasion, I once again remember those who lost their lives in Soma, with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude, and hope that you will do good deeds in their behalf, and salute you all with respect and love. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0149par0048	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0150par0055	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0149par0056	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0151par0057	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0149par0058	Bulent Belen, Tekirdağ MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Belen.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0152par0061	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding the Article 28/39 of the Law Bill under discussion. Before I begin, I strongly condemn the brutal killings in Gaza, Israel, and I expect it to end the occupation and killings immediately, and I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers were taken into the draft bill by the Government of the Law on December 17, 2012, under which I gave the original (2/1103) and on the 112th and 1113th pages of the bill. But I have seen that my proposal of the law does not correspond with any of the amendments in Law 3201 as purpose or context. The AKP Group cannot be offered the law on the same matter in less than a year's time, by being so-called involved in the bill. This practice by opposition lawmakers to get rid of the law proposals waiting on commissions is against ethical values and Parliamentary Inclusion. In accordance with Law Proposal No. (2/1103)... the temporary six-parter of Law 3201 is considered in terms of social security measures, which have not been signed in effect from non-signed countries -- on the basis of mandatory immigration in 1989, Turkish citizen and resident of Turkey, including Law 2022, on the condition that social security institutions come from abroad or do not receive a month -- and documented employment period is considered according to this law." It's called. I suggested that this clause be changed in such a way that the victims of our descendants who migrated from Bulgaria without being forced to emigrate should be replaced as follows. - Social security agreements have migrated from 1/1/1989 to Turkey and have been a Turkish citizen and are assessed for social security while working abroad and documented according to this law on whether or not to receive a pension from social security agencies living in Turkey, including Law 2022." In the shape of it. Mr. President, I'd like to ask the President of the Commission now: Mr. President, in what clause of Bill 639? For God's sake, what does what I'm offering have to do with what the Commission has agreed to? Article 28, Article 3201 of the Law, Article 29, Article 3, Article 30, Article 8, Article 31, Article 9...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0153par0065	Mr. Bulent, repeat after me, the Minister won't listen to them.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0152par0066	...the 32nd article includes the 7th article and the 33th Article of Article 8 in addition to the same law. As you have refused to accept any change in my proposal, you are using my proposal to make changes in the matter as if it were my proposal. In addition, the changes you've changed do not address any of the problems mentioned in the general cause of my proposal. You make it up somehow, you go around behind the Constitution, the statutes, the rules, and the rules, and you make things right, but there's ethics and morality. I mean, you're taking my offer, but you're putting it on the bill in a way I didn't propose. This is not a pleasant situation. I hope you will consider such situations in your next commission work and not allow such situations by acting on your conscience. I'm asking you: What about the hours of service for citizens from Bulgaria without being forced to emigrate? These people are really victims. They've got a lot of old people, they'll retire here if they count their services, but for two years, you haven't put that bill on the table, and now you're trying to make it look like you've put it on the agenda, and you're going to avoid being offered the law for another year. I invite the government to be sensitive about this, to be sensitive to the AKP Group, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0154par0071	Thank you. 4-Current of Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; Ankara MP Izzet Çetin; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party Deputy MP Oktay Köçal; İstanbul MP Sena Kallıtı's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Balukı; İstanbul MP İzken's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Çeçı; Ankara MP İzket Balukı's Party's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Democratic Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP İdıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK) and İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK).
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0155par0074	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0154par0075	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll grant it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Altay, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Special, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Pine, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Öz, Mr. Akova, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Değirmendereli, Mr. Bilgehan, Mr. Küfütı, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Keskin, Mr. Keskin, Mr. Elector. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. Number: 639) [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Numbered Bill of Law (also referred to as the 639 Orders) be replaced by the 28th Amendment in Article 3201, dated 8/5/1985, under Article 3201. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0156par0090	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0154par0091	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0157par0092	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0154par0093	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0158par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to our motion. I salute you all. Dear friends, I'm ashamed to call you here again about the situation we've been expressing since this very moment. We're here to discuss how an audacious civil servant opposes the Turkish Grand National Assembly, how he opposes the will of the people, but this civil servant still doesn't come back to me because I've been called by a group vice president of a party that has received 3 million votes by now.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0159par0099	Has he called yet?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0158par0100	Now, we're trying to keep our cool on this Ramadan day, but I'm really having a hard time. The minister who doesn't know what he's talking about, the answer they're about to say, I'm sure they'll answer. Since we don't have a cell phone number for this group's vice president, they're probably going to call. So imagine that a governor doesn't know how to contact the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, how to get to a congressman, and he lacks that ability. Since he hasn't returned to us by now, you're about to justify it that way. Dear friends, look, you're the ones who are supposed to be involved here in the first place. We've got some very valuable paralegals from the Home Office here. Mr. Ministers, is such a situation acceptable? We reach the Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Interior at five in the morning; ten hours after that, we can't get the Governor on the phone yet. What is it? The gentleman spent the night without sleep. You've already made mistakes on your sleepless night, and now you've put a reporter face-to-face with death. Mr. Kentiban Aslan, the reporter of JINHA, is now struggling to live between life and death by interfering with this governor's orders. The gentleman is out of sleep. This sleep is a sleep that will require immediate attention when the AKP representative calls from here, but when the opposition party's deputy leader calls... Unfortunately, it still remains a big problem. Mr. President, I blame you for your attitude here. As the Presidential Court, you have to protect the reputation of this House. If he opposes the will of the nation, the council of the appointed people, you will intervene in the first place. But I don't expect anything from you because you've never been neutral in the time you've been sitting here. Although the other one is no different, I would like to address Mr. Cemil Cicek. Mr. Cemil Cicek will have to intervene immediately. What a governor who doesn't care about a congressman's phone does to an individual, to a public, I suppose you can all imagine it in your own head. We can't possibly accept that. Although, you're used to it. It may not be hard for you to stand behind an assigned officer even in the order of protocol, but we don't accept that, dear friends. On the way to the public, your government was always saying: "We have removed the custody of those appointed over the chosen ones. Where did you remove them? Here, a appointee opposes the will of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. With these governors in the middle of being appointed, there's no way we're gonna be able to accept that. We elect the president by the vote of the people. If the governor represents the President, then the governor should be in charge of the election. The election has to come to work, so that the election will have the capacity to understand the position of MP here representing the will of the people, or I'm afraid we'll continue to face these challenges. In such a manner, a governor of the AKP is your governor, not our governor, not the governor of the people of Urbana, who immediately takes the call of the AKP MP and doesn't answer the phone of the deputy leader of the group. We also think that a person who is not governor of the people of Urbana has no business in Urbana. We'll follow it to the end. And I say unto him, We will not give him rest after this, until he is out of the land: and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0160par0107	Thank you. Mr. Baluken, about your speech, the Minister listened here and responded. However, I'm responding to what you said about the Vice President. The 14th Article of the Civil Code lists the President's duties: ▪Representing the Grand National Assembly outside the Parliament of Turkey. • The others are concerned with the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Vice President's duties are to oversee the meeting of the General Assembly in place of the President and to observe the summary of the report on the hearings conducted by him. We are only mediating here. Mr. Secretary has heard your speeches as a member of the execution. This is not about the presidential court that currently runs the Turkish Grand National Assembly, sir. If the Speaker reads this from the transcripts and is listening now, he can perform the necessary intervention on the basis of his duties in Article 14. But that doesn't mean that if a governor doesn't answer a congressman's phone...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0158par0111	Mr. President, here's a sentence. Use it.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0160par0112	Sir, just a second...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0161par0113	Congressman gets beat up.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0160par0114	Excuse me, sir. So, you want a word, you object to him, you step in as you speak. Excuse me for a second.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0162par0115	We thought it was over.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0160par0116	I've just told you, we'll take a break and call him on the phone. Mr. Secretary has already spoken, and so will we, but it's not our job, and I want to tell you about it. Here you go now, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0162par0118	Mr. President, you are currently sitting there representing the Speaker of the House. I think you should know better than we do that the chairman's duties are to ensure the reputation of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Therefore, you must be responsible for the time you've been sitting there to protect the reputation of this House, which is the duty of the Speaker of Parliament.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0160par0119	Mr. Baluken, the Civil Code...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0162par0120	What we expected from you was that, at least in one sentence, it would mean a lot to even condemn the public's will, the people's understanding of the people's will, the people's free will, and the reputation of the Assembly would be a prerequisite for future mistakes. But, of course, since you didn't even do that, we condemn your attitude from the stand.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0160par0121	Yes, thank you. I have read the 14th and 15th articles of the Civil Code, sir. Again, it's not our job, sir. We're not giving power of attorney to the Speaker, just on behalf of the Speaker, here they are running the House of Presidents. It's our limited duty, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0163par0124	Mr. President, I stated on the stand that in the morning, our MPs were attacked, beaten. The will of the people has been beaten. Now, when a member of the People's Assembly is beaten, the House's Presidential Court condemns these attacks. We've done this many times. Didn't we, Mr. President? Didn't you? Was it your duty then or not now?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0160par0125	No, sir...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0163par0126	When it comes to HDP, you're finished? Look, Mr. President, you have to be sensitive, you have to be sensitive to 550 MPs. I said the MPs were attacked. I saw it on TV, Mr. Ertugrul. I saw the attacks on Kürkçı, Nursel Aydoğan. I came and expressed it on this stand. So it's none of your business that your members were attacked, not the Presidential Court?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0164par0129	Mr. Kaplan, that's not how you requested it, sir. Mr. Secretary is here...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0163par0130	That's right, sir, we explained. And from the government...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0164par0131	We're about every congressman who's ever been attacked...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0163par0132	I mean, you've been worried, and they've attacked the MP of the opposition for God's sake, and they've injured him, and I'm condemning the people's will. Can't you say that?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0164par0133	Any congressman is attacked, sir, and we're condemned. That's not what was asked of us, but...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0163par0134	Which congressman, I said on the stand.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0164par0135	No, sir, it wasn't the MP being attacked, it was the failure to reach the Governor.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0163par0136	The government should have expressed it here as well. Neither did the Minister.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0164par0137	Thank you. 4-Current of Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; Ankara MP Izzet Çetin; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party Deputy MP Oktay Köçal; İstanbul MP Sena Kallıtı's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Balukı; İstanbul MP İzken's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Çeçı; Ankara MP İzket Balukı's Party's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Democratic Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP İdıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK) and İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK). Number: 639) [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are four motions on Article 29 of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework Article 29 of the current Bill 639 rows be removed from the Charter text. Mustafa Elitaş Hadji Bayram Türkoğlu Osman love Bak Tülay Bakır Recep Special Osman Coffee Man Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Mehmet Şandir Bulent Belen Sumer Oral Ramadan Kerim Özkan Mahmoud Tanal of Rahmi Love Musa Pine Levent Gök İlhan Demiröz Does Mr. Commission agree with the motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0165par0167	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0164par0168	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0166par0169	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0164par0170	Ramazan Kerim Özkan, MP of Burdur, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0167par0173	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. In the second joke of Article 3 of Law 3201, the agreements on social security are changed in terms of international social security agreements. What's changing? Nothing's changed. It organises law enforcement services, such as loans abroad, taxes on foreign workers, social security debts. But when it comes to working abroad, it comes to Germany, Holland, France, Austria. Again, we think of our brothers who have no wealth but wooden luggage and bodies, who have gone abroad in their labors, as they are called foreign workers. For years, they trained on dry onions, bread, soup, bulwark, increased, sent foreign currency to the country's economy. Is that enough? It's not enough. They also fell into the monster gear networks of organizations such as KOMBASSAN, YIMPAS and the Lighthouse, through their ruling leaders who abused religious feelings. We've been talking about their problems in this House for 12 years. However, the nation's problems, the problems of those workers, have not been solved by the candidates of the nation for 12 years. These people filed petitions during the statute of limitations, and we still want to organize social security, not solving the problems of our workers working abroad, in Germany, France, and the Lighthouse, who have lost money to KOMBASSAN, YIMPAŞ, and Lighthouse. My friends, they put their work into these companies. These companies have assets now, they've smuggled their assets abroad, but... Unfortunately, our Council of Ministers is empty. Mr. Secretary, welcome. The problems of our workers in this country, in YIMPASSAN, are still not solved. They came in, hired lawyers to avoid the statute of limitations, each of them transferred over 20,000 liras and 30,000 liras, and they didn't solve these problems again. This is the government that's going to solve this. You've got numbers, you've got willpower. People's problems, we're here to solve people's problems. Today, we're working on a Sunday, but we're still beating up on you. These people from Germany, Holland, France, Austria are calling, saying that our religious feelings have been abused. And the princes of understanding came unto us, and preached unto us in the mosques, and said unto them, Blessed be the gain that is free. But we invested in them, paid for them. So we gave him a mark, and now it's a euro. But our money's been smoked. Please address this problem. Again, social security means... I was in the city of Burdur, and I was in the streets of Burdur, and I saw three aunts, these old aunts. You pay them 250 lira. An aunt in the barracks says: "My son, I pay 150 lira for this salary for electricity, water and telephone money, and they get 45 lira as an insurance contribution. Why are they taking this money from us? We're talking about social security, and, look, they don't have an arrangement. You say the vision of 2023, we're going to lead the nation. You say that. But you're taking back $45 of the 250 lira. Give up this purchase. If you're helping these people, just give us 250 lira. Look, we've made a law again that our citizens should benefit from public buses -- I've recently said that -- but you've brought people, citizens, against public buses. The man says to the old man who gets on the bus, "Let it be my charity. Why do you give alms? The law is made. I ride by law, he says. There's a discrepancy. You show these people, our pensioners, our widows and orphans, our veterans, our fallen families, their vision of 2023, you show them money in the vaults, it's $15,000, you say our goal is $25,000. Can't a government that's a $25,000 target give our people a 250-month raise on the way? These are our widows and orphans, our families of martyrs, our families of veterans. Give me 250 lira, no casualties. We have a lot of demands on this, and you need to assess this social security. I ask that the government also address the problem of our citizens who have lost money to this KOMBASSAN, YIMPAŞ, and Lighthouse. It's very important that these people's efforts should not be wasted. You all belong in your territories, you all have relatives, and I have relatives; these people didn't eat, they didn't drink, they saved money, but their work was wasted. Please, I invite the government to be sensitive, and I give all of you respect.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0168par0184	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0169par0185	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0168par0186	Bulent Belen, Tekirdağ MP who wants to make a statement on the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Belen.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0170par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the motion made by the National Party for Action on Article 29 of Law Bill 639, which is being discussed. I salute the General Assembly. (2/1103) In my main Law Proposal (2/1103), but in the case of the temporary amendment of Law No. 3201, which appears to be in the law, will those who emigrated to Turkey after 1/1/1989 and who switched to Turkish citizenship be able to borrow their working time in Bulgaria, in which article? As a result, one word is being changed, maybe no harm, but as I mentioned earlier, the job is annoying, so the Plan and Budget Commission is using the existing proposals to change the law in its own way. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, along with this bag of legislation on our agenda, are giving up a lot of pens from our citizens. This is of course an important development because the state must always act in the best interests of its citizens as long as it can afford it. In this way, I would like to see another legal proposal of my own in such a bill in favour of our citizens. I'd like to share with you a brief summary of the content of my proposed law. The original Law Proposal (2/382), dated February 21, 2012, is on hold at the Plan and Budget Commission. With this law, I offered to grant the SSC workers the right to be owed a back-to-back service, because in the past, our citizens, the BUG-KUR/KUR, and the Retirement Ark, were granted the right to return their services, which our citizens suffered, but were not brought to our citizens of the USSR. Only those who work in the fine arts, thinkers and writers who engage in music, images, sculptures, decorative and so on, have been brought into debt four times in the past for citizens who fit the definition of the film, theatre, stage performances, and so forth, being employed by one or several employers. These are the 14th article of Law No. 2167 in 1978, the 1st article of Law 2959 in 1983, the 17th article of Law 3395 in 1987, and finally, the 15th article of Law 4056 in 1994, and the 15th article of the Law. The 10th article of our Constitution prohibits discrimination among people. This right has not been given to our artists, to our writers, to other SECs. The 10th article of our Constitution states that each person is equal to the law, regardless of language, race, color, gender, political thought, philosophy, religion, sect, and so on. Men and women have equal rights. The state is obliged to ensure that this equality is granted to life. No person, family, group, or class can be granted privileges. State bodies and administrative authorities must act in accordance with the principle of equality in all their procedures. Now, in these years, these laws, the opposition parties of that period, since there were writers, painters and artists, I think they didn't go to the Constitutional Court to cancel these laws so that they wouldn't be able to face them. In fact, while this bag of legislation is being discussed, the ruling party group is willing to side with the citizens... Many of our citizens, working as seasonal workers, especially in the construction industry and in the agricultural sector, leave the world before they can complete the number of bonus days for retirement. Let's not let these people down. Let's add the original Law Proposal (2/382) to this bag of legislation, which is waiting in the Budget Plan, to an additional clause, and to address the victims of our citizens who are seasonal workers. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0171par0203	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0172par0204	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0171par0205	Mr. Halaçoglu, you asked for it, we'll give it to you alone, but we'll have to ask two more groups.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0172par0206	Okay. I mean, just so you know. And then you jump, that's why.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0171par0207	I'm reading the reason: Matter is intended to be removed from the bill. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who has asked for the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0173par0212	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have stated that we do not understand why they actually put these bureaucratic substances in. So is the substance behind this. So, when you look at it from the point of view of law technique, there's a law clause, a line, 18 articles, five pages inside a law clause. I mean, this bag is clearly unstable by the law. Now, I don't understand why the bureaucrats put this on today, why they're taking it off, why we beat each other up on the Commission, why the AK PARTY needs to take it off now. However, we've submitted our motions, and they'll come out now. Okay, got it, social security, international security... so what? I mean, did you have to do it with a bag because the bureaucrats asked you to? In fact, it's not acceptable. Bureaucratic custody collapsed on the will of the House, my friends. There used to be military custody on top of the House, and now he's in custody of bureaucratic custody. They do what they want, they do what they want, they get the motion they want, they do what they want. The soldier's custody was called, removed, and custody changed hands. It was called custody of the court, and now it is above the will of the Assembly. However, I'd like to make another point today: you know, what increase will the government have here, in July, from all pensioners, SEC, BUG-KUR pensioners, employees -- about 2.5 million -- and from the amount of pensioners -- and from the amount of EMEKLI-SEN, 3 million -- all eyes on this bag? You know, there was a standard: a rise in inflation rate every January and July. Now, when we looked at last January, there was a 3.27 increase. I'm thinking what the government expects, it should explain. What do you think of civil servants, workers, BUG-KUR pensioners? Some say around ▪4-5, some say 5.7. KAMU-SEN and KESK are expecting a six-rate raise. However, the government, after becoming a government, has appointed the Governor of Şanliurfa from his own partisan staff, and you will either become members of the MEMUR-SEN, or you will be dismissed. By taking the threat, both KESK has prevented the organisation of both KAMU-SEN, and today, the only authority in 11 languages of 11 of the 11 service units is MEMU-SEN. If these hikes are not done according to the inflation of the officer, the worker, the pensioner's salary, according to the conscience, according to the law, according to justice, if they are not done, then know that the MEMUR-SEN who has entered into a yellow organization under the command of power has committed a grave sin. The government's a union, so, what do they say? What does the landlord do when he's a thief? Pulls something out of the chimney. So, right now, we're asking the government here to give a message to millions of pensioners right now. What kind of raise are you thinking of, what kind of raise in July? We have the following figures, thanks to them, the experts told us. Our expectations are, indeed... in these months when inflation, oil, natural gas, all of them have been raised, with a general average, beyond the numbers of TÜİK, with a realistic determination, I expect to give our pensioners some pre-season news. I think the government should do the right thing at least twice in one day, like clockwork, guys. I mean, it's not always about yourself. Sometimes I think it's time to think about the public. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0174par0220	Thank you. I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0174par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the same four motions for the release of Article 29 of the Law Bill 639 rows was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Thus, the 29th article was removed from the text. We'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Altay, please, you have a request.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0175par0010	Thank you. Mr. President, I believe the allegations that Mr. Hasip Kaplan and HDP Deputy Director have just made are grave. There is a serious claim today that police have attacked Mr. Nursel Aydoğan and MP Ertuğul Kürkçı in Şanlıurfa. If that's the case, which it seems to be - I strongly condemn this attack. I request that the government be gracious and inform the General Assembly on this matter. In the same way, if the Vice President of the People's Democratic Party has not returned despite his search for the Governor of Şanlıurfa, I invite the Governor of Şanlıurfa to be governor of the state, and I condemn him. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Altay. 4-Current of Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; Ankara MP Izzet Çetin; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party Deputy MP Oktay Köçal; İstanbul MP Sena Kallıtı's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Balukı; İstanbul MP İzken's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Çeçı; Ankara MP İzket Balukı's Party's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Democratic Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP İdıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK) and İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK). Number: 639)
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0176par0018	There are four motions on Article 30: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework Article 30 of Law Bill 639 be changed in the following manner. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special Yilmaz Turkç Türkan Dağoğlu Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu "The following sentence has been added to the fifth joke of Article 5 of the Law, MEDDE 30 - 3201. "However, in international social security contracts it is considered to be the first time in the country when people who are borrowing insurance in countries with special provisions "that the date before entering Turkish insurance will be accepted as the date of their entry into Turkish insurance," he said. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Bkent Belen Sumer Oral Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Mehmet Şandir The fifth sentence and the following joke were added to the following sentence and to the fifth sentence in the first article of Article No. 30-3201. "However, in international social security contracts it is considered to be the first time in the country when people who are borrowing insurance in countries with special provisions "that the date before entering Turkish insurance will be accepted as the date of their entry into Turkish insurance," he said. "All of the extracurricular periods, or as much as is required, can be borrowed. The amount of days required is based on the dates recorded in the documents in which the applicants will register the period of their debt due to the demand for partial debt." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law; İstanbul MP Izzet Baluken's; İstanbul MP Sena Kallı; İstanbul MP Şeçalı and Ankara's Party's Minister's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Party of Parliament and İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Democratic Party; Mehmet Kötıçalı; İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Çakıpı İçı Akçı; İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Çaçı İçı İçı İçıçıçı MP's Party; İstanbul İçı İçı İçı İçı İçıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's MP's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's MP's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's MP's Party's Party; Ankara MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Minister's MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's MP's Minister's MP's Minister's Minister's MP's MP'sııııı İçııı İs Party; Ankara MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's MP's Party's Party; Ankara MP's Party; We propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Ramadan Kerim Özkan Mahmoud Tanal of Rahmi Love Muslim Yellow Levent Gök İlhan Demiröz Verse 5 of Article 5 of Article 30-3201 added the following joke to the following sentence and the same article. "However, in international social security contracts it is considered the first time in the country that people who are borrowing the period of insurance in countries with a special conviction that the date before entering Turkish insurance will be accepted as the date of their entry into Turkish insurance. All of the time abroad, or as much as is required, can be borrowed. It is based on the date the person will declare in determining the period of debt due to the partial debt demands of the applicants." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that Article 30 of the 639 Numbered Bill of Law, under which Article 5 of Law 3201 shall be removed from the text of the law. İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Sebahat Tuncel Assad Canan Property Onetane Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0177par0056	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0176par0057	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0178par0058	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0176par0059	Erol Dora, Mardin MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0179par0062	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on Article 30 of the Law Bill 639. I salute the General Assembly. With this clause, the amendment to the Law on the Evaluation of Turkish Citizens abroad from Social Security Care in the year 3201 has been made to make changes in borrowing the hours of employees working abroad. Precious lawmakers can borrow the range at any time if they want to make an insurance loan that resides in Turkey, but with the change made, our citizens living abroad will be able to borrow back from the deadline between the deadlines that have been asked to borrow. This will cause our citizens living abroad to both pay higher premiums and receive lower pensions. Dear MPs, I'd like to continue my discussion on the functions of social security institutions and the situation in Turkey. In modern social states, the social security system is a system that takes the necessary measures to protect all individuals in the community against social risks and affords the damage they can do. The continuity of such an important institution is also vital for the peace and peace of society. Precious lawmakers, when we look at social security institutions in Turkey, one of the main points is intense political interference. The fact that social security institutions in Turkey have had significant problems due to political interference in their functioning is that the age of pension is constantly changed for political gains, that there is no solution to bonus collection problems, that continuing to grant benefits should put citizens into expectation in this direction, and therefore the negative impact of bonus collections, the creation of a consistent state policy for the social security system, the establishment of government policy in the form of a habit collected by past governments, the use of bonus revenues for political purposes or other public services that have nothing to do with social security, the use of non-prime payments, and therefore the effect of non-profitsts, which are usually the result of non-employmental health insurance. Dear lawmakers, it is the duty of every social state and government to encourage citizens and employers to pay their taxes and bonuses regularly. Since his arrival in the government, however, the AK PARTI government has been opposed to pardoning tax and bonus debts, and for some reason, on the eve of each election, a new package of amnesty faces the Assembly. The fact that governments are constantly bringing up the package of pardons is, in fact, a confession and an important proof that citizens have been unable to pay their debts. Dear MPs, on the other hand, pardon packets of public acquisitions made up of pre-election habits, citizens say, "There's going to be a pardon anyway." In adapting to its convenience, the Social Security Institution, one of the country's most important institutions, is being damaged by the government. Citizens and businesses who pay their debts regularly are also taught that it is unnecessary to pay their debts on time. Thus, the government's populist practices are a major obstacle to the establishment of the social state principle and to the development of civic awareness of citizens. Tax rates and SGK premiums are being kept high, making it difficult for citizens to pay, and then, with pardons, we remove the debt of citizens. Mr. President, valued lawmakers should be raised to a reasonable level where tax rates and SGK bonuses can be paid by the social state principle, and the consistent incentives for citizens to make these payments on time must be developed. The importance of structural, comprehensive, inclusive, and right-based policies, instead of temporary, superficial approaches, will also serve the interests of the general public in the matter of social policy. On these grounds, I expect the clause to be removed from the text of the law, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0180par0072	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP İsket Çeşı's Party's Minister's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Minister and Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Çakı İçı İçı, İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's deputy's deputy's MP's MP's deputy's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul (Şışışışışışışışıçıçı İçıııçııııııııııııııışı İçışışışışılıçışılıçıçıçıçılıçıçıçıçıçılıçılıçılıçılıçılıçıçılıçılıçılıçılıçılıçılıçıçıçıçılıçılıçılıçılıçıçılıçıçılıçılıçılıçılıçılıçıçılıılıılıılıııılılılılılılılıııııııılııııılılıııılıçıçıçılıçılıçıçılıçı We propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Ramadan Kerim Özkan (Burdur) and his friends Verse 5 of Article 5 of Article 30-3201 added the following joke to the following sentence and the same article. "However, in international social security contracts it is considered the first time in the country that people who are borrowing the period of insurance in countries with a special conviction that the date before entering Turkish insurance is considered to be the date of their entry into Turkish insurance. All of the time abroad, or as much as is required, can be borrowed. It is based on the date the person will declare in determining the period of debt due to the partial debt demands of the applicants." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0181par0081	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0180par0082	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0182par0083	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0180par0084	Müslim Sarı, İstanbul MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0183par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 30th amendment of the agreed-upon bag of legislation. I salute you all. Yesterday, upon a question, Mr. Labour Minister made an assessment of the deficits of the social security system in Turkey, saying the deficits of the social security system in Turkey are around 19-20 billion dollars. In fact, what he says is partly true, partly wrong. The deficits of the social security system are not the difference between income and expenses of the Social Security Agency. When you look at it in the narrow sense, yes, the difference between the amount of income that the Social Security Agency makes in a year and the amount that it spends in a year represents its deficit, but since the social security system represents a broader concept, you have to look at the deficit in the social security system from a wider frame and calculate the cost of all transfers from the budget and the cost of this security system on the budget. From this point of view, Mr. Secretary, the General Assembly has been misled. The deficits of the social security system in Turkey, as the Minister said, are not around 19-20 billion dollars, but around 77 billion. The medium-term programme is similar to that in both the annual programme and close estimates are made. 2014 projection 77 billion. While reviewing the deficits of the Social Security Agency, the Minister also says that the roofs of three institutions were merged in 2008, which had a positive effect, so there was a improvement from the parameters of the social security system. That's partly true. In fact, in 2002, the narrow deficits of the social security system reached 26 billion in 2008, when we came to 2014 after 2008, it declined to up to 21 billion. Thus, since the late 1990s, the parameters for social security reform also show positive results, especially in regulations related to the age of retirement. In the middle and long term, there are also projections that maybe this number will go to zeros. Thus, with improvements from these parameters involved, an opportunity has arisen, especially to reconsider the arrangements for the transition in 2000. In the Commission's studies, we have submitted several motions for people who have completed the number of premium days, especially for pensioners and pensioners, and we have been given information over and over again that if this system were valid today, 412,000 people would retire because of this system. Thus, without changing the main parameters, but by reevaluating some of the arrangements for the transition period, we also have a framework for resuscitations related to this issue. I wish the government would consider this framework. On the other hand, when we look at it broadly -- whether it's narrowly -- the deficits of the Social Security Agency -- and we've been going down in terms of national revenues since 2008, and we've looked at the gaps of social security in a broad sense since 2008, there's no reduction here; there's a serious increase in the opposite, and we're facing a situation where the rate of increase is almost increasing every day. Members of parliament, for example, budget financing for social security institutions in 2002, budget financing for social security institutions, or rather 10 billion from the budget to social security institutions in 2008, 35 billion in 2008, 77 billion in 2014. So when we look at the income and expense difference, we see that the social security system deficits are falling, but as a budget-sourcing resource, when we look at them as a share transferred from the budget to social security institutions, they are growing dramatically. So, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary and Mr. Government: Why is the social security agency's budget reduced in revenue and expense, while the interest and funds transferred from the Social Security Agency are increasing? Is it because the Social Security Agency is given a number of tasks and powers under its social security system, or is it because a number of tasks and powers that are not related to the Social Security Agency are being violated? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So we'd appreciate it if he'd give us an explanation. The deficits of the social security premium, the social security system -- not the deficits of the production, but the deficits of its system -- are increasing, and Mr. Secretary has provided misleading information here. And I'd like to offer your assessment of the Minister's assessment of the matter in order to give him a chance to correct it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0184par0099	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends The fifth sentence and the following joke were added to the following sentence and to the fifth sentence in the first article of Article No. 30-3201. "However, in international social security contracts it is considered to be the first time in the country when people who are borrowing insurance in countries with special provisions "that the date before entering Turkish insurance will be accepted as the date of their entry into Turkish insurance," he said. "All of the extracurricular periods, or as much as is required, can be borrowed. The amount of days required is based on the dates recorded in the documents in which the applicants will register the period of their debt due to the demand for partial debt." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0185par0109	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0184par0110	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0186par0111	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0184par0112	Bulent Belen, Tekirdağ MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Belen.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0187par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the amendment motion made by the National Party for Action on Article 30 of Law Bill 639, which is being discussed. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers are a system that protects individuals from the risks they may face, ensures that individuals look to the future with confidence, which is largely covered by bonuses from individuals. Because social security is so important in human life, the importance of social security has increased throughout the history of states and individuals. However, the sustainability of social security has been the biggest problem the system has ever faced. Overexpensive social security spending, low incomes, causes the social security budget to be constantly short. Due to a continuous budget deficit from the Social Security Agency, large funds are transferred from the budget each year to the Social Security Agency. So that if these amounts weren't transferred, the budgets could be overpaying. Over the years, the deficits of our country's Social Security Agency have continued to rise and expand public budget deficits. In 2002, the deficits of the Social Security Agency, which had around 10 billion Turkish liras, increased to 77 billion Turkish liras in the last year. Our country's social security structure brings with it all sorts of problems. One of these challenges is our citizens in retirement, who are now on the agenda of the public. Due to general health insurance, which took effect on 1/1/2012, citizens who covered the pension period and bonus day were also affected by the monetary health system while waiting for age. You're old, we can't hire you. If I'm old and I'm old, I'll retire. You're young, you can't retire right away. Those who have to live in retirement have to pay premiums for general health insurance to get hurt by health services. Even the Minister of Social Security, who heads social security in retirement, can't change a horse when crossing a stream. The rule has been changed while playing the game. However, those who say that we have developed economically in every way said that when it comes to this issue, the economy is unable to afford retirement for those who live in retirement. In short, everyone admits that those who live in retirement are right, that those in this situation are victims. Against that, no one's doing what they're supposed to do. Those who live in retirement, rightly want to be eliminated from their injustices and to be given their rights in retirement. The biggest payment pen that creates a social security deficit is health care expenses. It will be possible to examine Turkey's social security project in its projects, which the National Movement Party has prepared for nearly 500 academics and experts before its 1999 elections, and to take down the legal arrangements to strengthen the financial and administrative structure of private insurance, including senior health insurance insurance and private insurance companies in line with it. It will also be possible to eliminate the social security deficit and increase pensions because private insurance companies will monitor health expenses more seriously because they are for profit purposes, and eventually there will be a reduction in health care spending. I advise the Ministry of Labor and Social Security to analyze and sample the projects of the National Movement Party, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0188par0124	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0189par0127	Mr. President, the request for roll call...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0188par0128	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll grant it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Irony, Mr. Silver, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Özgün, Mr. Pine, Mr. Ozüşmiş, Mr. Ören, Mr. Öner, Mr. Bilgehan, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Keskin and Mr. Elector. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework Article 30 of Law Bill 639 be changed in the following manner. Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends "The following sentence has been added to the fifth joke of Article 5 of the Law, MEDDE 30 - 3201. "However, in international social security contracts it is considered to be the first time in the country when people who are borrowing insurance in countries with special provisions "that the date before entering Turkish insurance will be accepted as the date of their entry into Turkish insurance," he said. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0190par0144	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0188par0145	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0191par0146	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0188par0147	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to remove the sentence from the article text on the detection of the amount of time to be owed. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are four motions on Article 31 of the same nature. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 31 of the 639 Numbered Bill of Law, which stipulates a change in Article 9 of Law 3201. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Mehmet Şandir Sumer Oral Cemallettin Lightning The signatures of the other motion are: Ramadan Kerim Özkan Musa Pine of Rahmi Love Mahmut Tanal İlhan Demirözeş Levent Gök The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Osman love Bak Yilmaz Tunç Osman Boyraz İstanbul Bartın İstanbul Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0192par0178	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0188par0179	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0193par0180	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0188par0181	Yes, Idris Baluken, Bingol MP who wants to make a statement on the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0194par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. We, of course, support the positive aspects of the changes in these last articles discussed. We especially support positive substances related to citizens of Turkey living abroad and social security. However, since there's been talk of social security and social security, I'd like to present a specific matter to the General Assembly. We've had a serious problem for a long time, the drama of soldiers and their families who died suspiciously in the barracks. In fact, as an MP who's studied most of these soldiers' files, there are no suspicious deaths, there are no soldiers killed in the barracks, and unfortunately, we haven't been able to reveal the facts about this until now. Now, we've talked about this over and over again, and I'm not going to go into those details, but these families in particular have an expectation when this bag of legislation is being discussed. Since these families are not considered martyrs, they have to deal with many poor families and very serious challenges. As if all of this wasn't enough, the government is sending out receipts to these families that are reported to have bullet money through the mail. So, imagine that you're handing over a child to the government, and the government is taking him to the army because of the mandatory military system, and one day, he sends you the funeral, the coffin of your child that you gave him safely. And if that's not enough, he's asking that kid, let's just say, family of that kid, for the price of a bullet. It wouldn't be a disgrace like this, so no one is responsible for this -- is it the bureaucratic, is it the Ministry's authorities, no one -- needs to be exposed. In this regard, an apology must be made by the state, by the government, by these families, and in order to address the victims of these families, an arrangement must be made as a need to be a social state. Whatever the status of the families of the martyrs, we feel the rights must be granted to these families. In this regard, families visited every three political parties in the opposition; they also came to the EC PARTY group and met with the group's vice presidents. As far as I know, a week ago, when Mr. Prime Minister Antalya was going to a rally at the rally, the parents also met with him, and he promised that there would be an arrangement in this bag of legislation. We also met again with the AK PARTY deputy presidents, and yesterday we met with the Minister of National Defence. I mean, it's very important for all of us to get rid of a shame. Look, in this bill, the 10th article has been removed, thank God, but if that 10th article hadn't been removed, you would have made an arrangement that would have poured trillions of money into private companies. And those families don't have that kind of situation. They're now gathered under the roof of an association, and at the moment, there are about 120 of them. Come, let us all do a good deed in this holy month, while this bag of legislation is being discussed, and let us all work together as a need to be a social state, to eliminate the victims of these families. Of course, the families have different demands, and I want to mention them here: first of all, they're demanding that these questionable deaths be taken away from military courts and seen in civil courts, which is a very human request. They're asking for the removal of forced military service and the recognition of the right to conscientious objection, and the children after that, they want to go back to the barracks safe and sound and return to them in a coffin. Again, they want human references brought forward, especially in training at military schools. I mean, all these demands are meetable demands. And I say, let's all agree in this bag of legislation, I salute the General Assembly, to eliminate the economic and human demands of these families.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0195par0193	Thank you. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who wants to make a statement on the same proposals. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0196par0197	Mr. President, I begin my speech by protesting the attacks and massacres of the Palestinian people of the Israeli government, who took the responsibility of US imperialism, the general gendarme of imperialism in the Middle East. [[Applause from CHP, AK PARTI and HDP rows]] In fact, the Palestinian case is not just between Israel and the Palestinians. Global imperialism, particularly US imperialism, is a part of its plays in the Middle East, which brings the people of Israel and the Palestinian people against each other and wants to achieve their own goals and goals in the Middle East. I bow before all guerrillas, including Yasser Arafat, leader of the Palestinian Liberation Organization, who lost their lives in the attacks and the struggle against massacres to carry out the imperialist purposes of the state of Israel, in the respect of Bora Gören and his friends, Turks and Kurd revolutionaries who went from Palestine to Palestine, and to those who died, and to those who died, I ask God's mercy. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] In 1967, in 1968, the Palestinian trial was, in fact, more sensitive than Turkey. The revolutionaries of that history fought bravely against the Israelis in Palestinian camps along with the Palestinian people. Today, the West and the United States are watching the massacres from one side to the other, and on top of that, Germany sees Israel's massacre against Palestine as a righteous war. Dear lawmakers, this war between Israel and Palestine is an unjust war fought by the imperialists and his collaborator Israel. But for the Palestinian people who were left homeless in their own homes, on their own land, this is a righteous war, a legitimate war. Today, it is legitimate to resist the imperialism that plays on games in backward countries to carry out imperialistic emessies. In this struggle today, we see that the legendary leader, Yasser Arafat, has become even more meaningful. The importance of Yasser Arafat was further sought out in the Middle East. But at this point, Yasser Arafat is fixed by his expert reports that he was not dead, but was poisoned to death. From here, you have to ask the United States, Germany: What right does Israel attack Palestine to seek? For what right is he slaughtering the children of Palestine, the women of Palestine, the elderly in Palestine? Today in Palestine, it is necessary to send thousands of greetings from this Parliament to truly patriotic people who have wrapped themselves in explosive material and thrown themselves over Israel's tanks. Dear MPs, we can no longer stand by and condemn the massacres of Israelis, such as the West, in Palestine, like the other Arab countries. Power must show that it is power; power must not be content with only reproaching; it must take the most effective measures in this regard. Israel must freeze and suspend all relations, especially with bilateral agreements. Really, we need to show solidarity with the Palestinian people. This solidarity isn't just about words, not just about a statement published by Parliament. The Republic of Turkey must show that it is with the oppressed people, that it is truly with the poor and innocent Palestinian people as a state founded in the fight against imperialism. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0197par0208	Thank you. He wants to speak on the same motions. He's a Parliamentary member of Samsun.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0198par0210	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the People's Party for National Movement on Article 31 of the Law on the Amendment to some Laws and Laws Act 639, which we are discussing. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, before we share our grounds for this clause with you, I'd like to share with you some of the issues on the agenda. Indeed, when we consider the world and its surroundings, our country is not in a pleasant position. We've become a circle of fire. Events in neighbouring countries have heavy political, social and economic dimensions for our country. Persistently and stubbornly, the wrong policies have led our country to an incredible amount of loneliness in the world. The fact that Mr. Prime Minister has had unnecessary discussions with other countries, especially our neighbors, has made our country unreputed in the world's public, making it a so-called world-threatening country. I especially want to stress that in the policies of secessioning our country from this world, the false prediction of the Erdogan-Davutoglu duo and its non-depth foreign policies have a great effect. Instead of reading the events that took place in Syria in 2011, the following policies led to increased blood flow in Syria and a number of terrorist organizations to be macheted from here to Iraq, causing terrorism to become a danger to our country. The alleged involvement in Syria on the charge of bringing democracy has caused Syria to sink into a bloody swamp. Today, terrorist organizations are running wild in Syria. With the contribution of Turkey itself, ISIS has jumped from these terrorist organisations to Iraq, occupied Musul (Musul), claiming to form a so-called Islamic state in Iraq-Syrian geography, massacred Turkmen in Telafer, and threatened Kerkuk Türkmen. 49 of our consulates are still being used as a shield in the hands of ISIS. The government's policy in Iraq is also strange. Turkey has run Iraq's policy entirely through Kurdish Regional Management, has dealt with everything, forcing Turkmen to take it in. Therefore, I'm afraid our relations with the Iraqi Central Government have been compromised. The government boasts publicly that more than 1 million refugees from Syria were brought to Turkey. However, because of the various diseases that Syrian immigrants have brought in there and because they live in poor conditions in Turkey, begging and prostitution have become a threat to our social structure. At the same time, the government left 120,000 Turkishmen at the mercy of ISIS and the hepmerge. Dear lawmakers, foreign policy is not something that can be used to manipulate their perception by gassing people in such cheap bullying. In particular, in foreign policy, you have to be very predictable. I can shake it around here and there to get people's gas, but I'll sell it to them. Turkey has no place between the Middle East and Arab countries today. There are still missile pads placed in the sphere for Israel's safety. The prime minister is blowing on the ground for nothing, to the left and to the left of Israel. We have very well-grown diplomats at the State Department. Mr. Prime Minister and Davutoglu should heed their warnings and predictions and develop our foreign policy accordingly. In regard to the 31st amendment proposal, the Article 9 of Law 3201 states that partial monthly commitments to themselves or the rightful owners can be converted to a full monthly period, provided they fully pay their debts if they demand it. We demand that this clause be removed from effect. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0199par0220	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0200par0221	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0199par0222	I'm reading the reason: The purpose is to remove the matter from the bill. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. So, matter is removed from the text. There are four motions on Article 32: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 32 of Article 32, which envisions a change in Article 3201 of the current 639 Numbered Law Bill. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan The signatures of the other motion are: Ramadan Kerim Özkan Musa Pine of Rahmi Love Levent Gök İlhan Demiröz Mahmoud Tanal The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Sumer Oral Mehmet Şandir Ali Öz Mustafa Elitaş Fehmi Kübü Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bulent Turan Osman love Look Ramadan Can Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0201par0252	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0199par0253	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0202par0254	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0199par0255	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who has asked for the same proposals. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0203par0258	Mr. President, what am I supposed to tell the AK PARTY Group here, where they bring four or five similar substances that are unnecessary, and they're a majority of 25 members in the Plan and Budget Commission? Why are you pulling back now, bro?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0204par0259	Congratulations.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0203par0260	We've been thinking about the commission, we've talked about it, we've talked about it, you don't understand it, and now you're filming it.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0205par0261	They're late sometimes.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0203par0262	Anyway, they say he'll come to his senses later, but as it happens, you've corrected one mistake. I want to tell you something else. Really, right now, what happened in Palestine, recent news, civilian deaths, the children's situation, is a very dire view of human crimes. Events such as war crimes, mass murder and genocide are being covered as crimes against humanity under international human law. On July 1, 2002, the International Criminal Court was set up in The Hague. These countries, which are a member of the International Criminal Tribunal -- the countries that sign and ratify the contract -- can apply for a trial side, and as an extra way, the five of the United Nations Security Council -- if the five of them agree together, report to the International Criminal Tribunal, including the decision to arrest Sudann President El Besir. From here, the Geneva Convention is number 1. I'd like to draw your attention to the Lu Protocol. Because of the horror of World War II, you know the Nürnberg courts, the fact that war criminals are being tried in front of history, starting with the fire of Reichstag. As soon as we look at the recent date, you know again about the massacres in Rwanda, about the conflicts there, about the establishment of the court in Rwanda, where war criminals were tried. At the time, a judge from Turkey also took office, his name was Mehmet Jahti, and I can't make out his last name right now, so forgive me. But the most important thing is the court -- if we look at a recent memory -- after the civil war of Yugoslavia -- along with the massacres in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) -- is the court, friends -- which makes the most serious trial of war crimes. In this court, we also know that Professor Rona Aybay (professor Rona) of Turkey served in this court. About those war crimes, the discovery of those massacres... We know of incidents that began with militias in the Krajina region and then spread to Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now, when we put them one after the other, when the Turkish Penal Code came out in our national judiciary, there were crimes against humanity in the 76th and 77th Articles, and genocide crimes were committed. Unfortunately, Turkey, for some reason, did not sign the protocol on the International Criminal Tribunal. We always say on this bench: if you want something, if you want to claim it in the future and apply for a right, let's sign it. So, let's talk about it, discuss it, as the four parties in the House. Let the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the EC PARTY gather, talk, what's going on? Why am I saying this because Israel is not on this side, and America is not on this side, people. Then what will Turkey do? Look, the European Union has made a decision, Parliament has decided that killing innocent civilians is a war crime. The killing of the Palestinians of the Human Rights Watch is a war crime. There are statements. The Human Rights Association, the MaZLUMDER, many organizations have such calls in Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I think it's time for a little more serious action. It's not just a reprimand, let's do something as Parliament, I'm saying it's the right thing to do. I think all party groups should get together in this spirit. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0206par0270	Thank you. Ali Öz, MP of Mersin, who wants a word on the same proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0207par0274	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding our motion on Article 32 of Law Bill 639. I salute your high council. Of course, when we were upstairs preparing the bag of law, we were able to explain to you that a large number of substances shouldn't be included in this, that you were mixing the stem with the straw in this bag, and each time we came to the stand, we were unable to accept it. We know that in this law, there are a number of substances that bring up life, pensions, problems of subcontractors, the judicial rules of privatisation, the laws of births, the retirement structure of mining, tax pardons, some of the different things. Of course, it's hard to deny that the Social Security Agency was gathered under one roof during your reign and that meeting under this single roof would have different benefits for the social security system of this union. However, I would like to point out that the fact that the Social Security Institution has gathered under one roof is a problem in Turkey where the social security system in particular increases the amount from the economic annual budget to the social security system day-to-day, which needs to be resolved, which is a problem that needs to be carefully considered. We have some really good doctor friends from work. With this structure built in the social security system in particular, we've always expressed that there's a structure on the back of the Social Security Agency that maybe increases spending without increasing quality. In particular, I'd like to share with you that there's a lack of seriousness in the audit department at Social Security. Look, there are some cities in Turkey that, especially during your administration, I would like to express that the Social Security Agency has been robbed and therefore kept silent by creating patients in the virtual world from the TC ID number for convenience. I know there are many cases in Turkey that are walking in some provinces, and I also know that some physicians, pharmacists, inspectors are in prison right now. Therefore, I would like to say that reviewing this system, especially the audits on this issue, must be protected by those who are overseeing it on behalf of the public, and that the rights of these auditors, who have been reflected in the media and in the media lately, have different unions behind them, should also be eliminated. While the Minister of Labor was here -- I've asked you three times before -- that in your community, there are cases that have been filed against you that are not true, that control the monthly payments that other institutions have made to the Social Security Agency, that have been dealt with by health workers, physicians, pharmacists, and those assigned to this subject. Your institution must be dismissed from court. So I asked myself, do you have any work to return to them a right that the military had given them before? But I'm afraid I haven't been able to answer these questions until now. Of course you're cutting a social security premium from pensioners within Social Security. So, in Turkey, we've established the order to increase young population employment, to prevent pensioners from working again, as if pensioners are comfortable when they get pensions from where they live. This world doesn't exist, this isn't the reality of Turkey. So, we have a lot of laws to offer, but within this bag of legislation, we could make an arrangement that would be in the interest of a lot of people waiting. You're saying that even though we've expressed the height of the premiums, that it needs to be removed, that it needs to be made easier for those who do additional work, that this is the road that's closed to increase young employment. Let people who can find a job, who are willing to bring bread home, who are looking for ways to get their children to read more freely, who have worked for years at a certain institution, who are old, who are retired, who are doing additional work. What's the point of cutting back on their pensions again under the name social security benefits? Although we've made that very clear, I'm afraid we're very upset that we haven't been able to get one step closer to you on this. With these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0208par0284	Thank you. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, Uğur MP who wants to speak on the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0209par0288	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. President, members of parliament, I'm talking about the motion that we've made as Republican People's Party on the 32nd amendment of the 639 row bill. Although Article 32 has been drawn by the AKP Group, we will, of course, use this right to speak again. Now, especially with the frameworks in the 28th and 33rd places, some regulations are being brought in regarding their foreign debt. This is a legal arrangement for Turkish citizens, workers, and housewives abroad when they are not insured in Turkey, to be insured, to be in debt and to retire. It turns out there are lawsuits on the subject of the legal arrangement brought in. Somehow these cases were intended to be corrected with these materials and to be settled. These are actually positive substances. Here, on the basis of past debts, which were removed from Turkish citizenship but during Turkish citizenship, they are also in debt for our citizens abroad. It's a positive arrangement. On the other hand, there was a negative arrangement in 3201, especially from the beginning of the insurance, on the basis of only the beginnings in Turkey. But in terms of international contracts, social security contracts, in terms of states of Akit, there's the beginning of that country. If you call it that, it's an arrangement for it to apply in Turkey. In this regard, it appears that there is a case, and there's been an arrangement to arrange these cases in some way, and then to waive the lawsuits that have been filed. All of these are positive, but I want to point out here: Housewives abroad are allowed to borrow, pensions are allowed, but women in Turkey are asking -- especially my friends in the ruling group -- why can't housewives in Turkey be borrowed if our Labour and Social Security Minister were here to hear this request? Why can't we have that right as much as women of Turkish citizens living abroad? But it turns out my ruling group friends don't pay any attention to it. Even Mr. Ramadan won't listen to me. Isn't that right, Mr. Ramadan? Now, there's also an arrangement in this bill for the debt of birth. The arrangement for the debt of birth -- it had already been demanded for years -- was that the working woman, the woman of BUG-KUR, the woman of BUG-KUR, the woman of her own reputation and account, would be owed two years of uninsured time, three times. Still, this arrangement has been made here, but the problems we face in practice are not solved here. If there are friends involved in their cases, the most important problem here is that the start of the insurance is being searched, which means that the woman who gave birth was insured before she could be in debt. Why is this wanted, dear friends, I really don't understand it. In the cases we've filed on this, when we've lost it, and we haven't been able to tell our clients about it in the past. Now, do you know what it says in Article 41 of 5510, especially about debt? Without insurance, you can borrow money from those who have studied doctorates or specializes in medicine. Without insurance, the residents can also borrow that amount of time. Well, why can't women who aren't prenatal-insuranced be able to borrow their next birth? So it's generally important for young women to get married. There are very serious problems with this practice. I wish the minister were here, but... it's possible, it can be fixed, but unfortunately, in any way, despite what we've said in the Commission, the AKP Group has not corrected this lack and error. None of the motions we've made are of any importance to the AKP Group, of course. And I asked the minister a question yesterday, and I said to him, "Why don't you give a staff to those in the position of engineers working in private administrations?" The Minister passed it. However, on June 25, 2013, two or three days of contract staff were appointed, but around 16,000 technical staff, engineers, architects, veterinarians, who have been working for 16 years, were never put on staff. I guess their only crime is that they got a job before the AKP. He's not considered a member of the staff, so he doesn't seem to be a fan of yours, he doesn't seem to be a supporter, but these engineers are people who are currently taking the heat in the municipalities. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Unfortunately, they can't be recruited. These people have been made promises for years; I know very well, and the Minister has been promised, and the group has promised, but our friends' problems have not been resolved. These are on your side, I say, with both hands, with respect, with love.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0210par0300	Thank you. I'm reading the reason for the same motions: Matter is intended to be removed from the bill. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. So the material was removed from the text. There are three motions on Article 33: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Dikal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Izzet Çetin's Party; Ankara MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu; İstanbul MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyelılılılı MP İzlı İzlı İztay Kılı; İstanbul MP İztay Çeşıçılı; İstanbul MP İncüçı's Party; İstanbul MP İsın İnclı and İstanbul's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Çağeşın İçı Akçı; İstanbul MP İçı MP İçı MP İçıçı; İstanbul Akçılıı MP İçı MP İçıçıçıçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı; İstanbul MP İçıçıı MP İçıçıçıçı Akçııııı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPılışışı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPııııııılıılıılııııııılııııııılışı MPı MPılışışı MPılışı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MP and İstanbul MP and İstanbul MP İsılı MPılılılılıılı MPılı MPı MPı MPılı MPılılılılılı MPılı MPılı MP İsılı MPı MPıııııııııııııılıııııııııııı MPı MPı MPıııııııılıılıılı MPılışılıı We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Free Ramadan Kerim Özkan of Rahmi Love Mahmoud Tanal Musa Pine Levent Gök İlhan Demirözek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz THE amendments to the Law, which violates this clause, are also applied to those who have waived cases that have been filed against the Institution before 30,04,2014 and have not yet been concluded. If the case is waived, the charges against the plaintiff will not be judged." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Mehmet Şandir Sumer Oral Cemaletdin Lightning "The prosecutor's expenses on these cases are covered by the Institution, provided he is called upon to testify. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "All expenses related to the case will be returned to him by the institution," he said, following the declaration of "unregulated" in Article 33 of the current 639 Numbered Legislature, which stipulates to add temporary material to Law 3201. We offer and offer to add his testimony. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0211par0332	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0210par0333	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0212par0334	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0210par0335	Mr. Baluken, will there be a conversation?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0213par0336	Let's get him to read the motive.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0210par0337	I'm reading the reason: With this motion, the cost of the case, attorney's fees, and so on, for citizens who have lost their rights and who have fought for a long time in the process of seeking their rights. All expenses are intended to be returned. Thus, it is intended to minimize the victims of citizens who are already victimized. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends "The prosecutor's expenses on these cases are covered by the Institution, provided he is called upon to testify. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0214par0347	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0210par0348	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0215par0349	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0210par0350	You have asked for a word on the motion, Lightning, Samsun MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0216par0353	Mr. President, I would like to welcome you back to the proposal of the National Party of Movement for Change in Article 33 of the Law on the Work Act 639, and on the Amendment to Some Laws and Laws We're discussing. On this occasion, I salute you again. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the content of this bill that was brought to parliament after the mine accident in Soma, there is nothing in this bag of legislation that has become traditional and sends messages to some parts of the government's presidential election, except to solve the problems of our miners in Soma. Although the AKP government has promised the miners that the subcontractor system will be terminated, this bag is widely subcontracted by law. Although the bill envisions shortening underground work periods, it appears that this is not true when the worker's entry and exites are evaluated. Although this bill reduces the pension age of underground workers to 50, it is not possible for a 50 - year - old to work in a mine, given the weight of the work. Again, I would like to warn the government that the Law on Business Health and Safety, which was adopted last year in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, is unfortunately not in the field. The importance of human health and safety in our country is not even at the level of third world countries. The work, action, and services of the world are for men, and all services must be for men. I'm just saying that if you don't have people in your work, if you don't put people first, your service doesn't make any sense. This bill determines which jobs will be given to the sub-employee by the government. The subcontractors' monthlys will be deposited into the bank, where the contracts will be three years old, and if the laborer is unionized, the difference is that the government will pay for it, as it includes regulations that do not meet the workers' demands, the subcontractors' work comes to us as regulations that bind to the law and make it legal. Precious lawmakers can not be divided into sub-employees under the title of the Employment Law, which is an exception in working life. The expectations of sub-employees today are to be first in line, which is unlikely as long as these workers are employed as sub-employees. It is not possible to have job guarantees because the sub-employee must have job guarantees for that to happen. It is simply impossible to refer to an employer who does not produce any goods or services, who has no income in return, who only distributes what he receives from the original employer as a contract to his employees, and who makes the difference to him as a real employer. For him, the law was made as an exception to the original employer's work, which has no real work, which has a feature, which has been cut down or used for continuous work, but where we come from, the number of sub-employees in the public has been reached, making it an institution that does the actual employer's work. Even career owners, such as veterinarians, engineers, are employed as sub-employees of sub-contractors. What needs to be done, first of all, is that the staff of employees working for this public and the main employer, except that the sub-employees, who are left behind, must be arranged primarily according to the work they do, and all of them must be paid minimum wage. So the government has to give up its desire to employ workers without guarantees and low wages through the sub-employee, or this regulation with the law will only make the problem bigger and more complicated, rather than solve it. Dear lawmakers, according to Article 3201, which has been added to Article 3201 and the interim clause 3201, according to Article 5 (5) of Law 3201, the date when those who are borrowing their services in countries under which a social security contract has been established, according to this law, began to work in the country under contract for the first time is considered as the first time. Hence, many of our citizens have been victims and have gone on trial. We demand that the costs of our citizens who are applying for this judicial path be paid by the country, and we expect your support. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0217par0364	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0218par0368	Roll call...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0217par0369	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Özsük, Mr. Serter, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Captain, Mr. Bul, Mr. Çam, Mr. Ayata, Mr. Önaler, Mr. Aygun. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Dikal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Izzet Çetin's Party; İstanbul MP İzkat Meklut Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetılılılı MP İzlı İzkı MP İzlı's Party; İstanbul MP İztay Çeştın's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Çeçı's Party; İstanbul MP İncı; İstanbul MP İçı İncı and İstanbul's MP İncün İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçekı; İstanbul İçı MP İçılıçıçı MP İçı; İstanbul Köçıçıçıçı MP İsıııı MP İsıııııılı; İstanbul MP İsııııı MPı MP İçııııı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPııııııııııılıııııııı MPı MPılışışı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıçıçıçı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııılıçıçı MPılıçıçı MPılışı MPı MPılışı MPı MPıılılılıçıçılıçılışılıçılıçılışılışı MPııılıçıçılıçı MPılıılıılı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPı MPıııııııılılılılılılıçıçılı We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends THE amendments to the Law, which violates this clause, are also applied to those who have waived cases that have been filed against the Institution before 30,04,2014 and have not yet been concluded. If the case is waived, the charges against the plaintiff will not be judged." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0219par0385	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0217par0386	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0220par0387	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0217par0388	Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, Uğur MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0221par0390	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, today is July 20th. As you all know, on July 20, 1974, Operation Peace of Cyprus was carried out. In order to prevent persecution of Turkish citizens, an action was carried out to fulfill our international law-related rights, and it was specifically called an action of peace. I honor and cherish those who made that peace movement, and those who were killed there, and I salute our veterans from here. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, in my earlier speech, I said some technical things about regulations regarding Law 3201, but now I want to talk about something different. Yesterday, when Mr. Secretary was here, we asked him why the living rooms weren't accepted in this bill, but the Minister ignored it, pretended he didn't understand it. And then there was a statement made yesterday by the Mining Engineers' Room, which inspired me to ask him some things, because I'm not an expert on them, but I think the Ministry bureaucrats will give the answer. The property of the living rooms is very different, but the living rooms in the mines were rejected during the Commission's meeting, instead, it is said that they were trying to bring in the mask exchange rooms by changing regulations. However, the Mining Engineers' Room says that this mask does not meet the changing rooms, the living rooms. Because not only is the gas related, but also in the fires and dents, the living rooms are of serious importance. Also, there is food storage, there is oxygen tanks, there is fresh air flow. That's why living rooms are indispensable in underground mining. In many countries, living rooms are mandatory, but in a number of countries like us, living rooms that have not been consolidated in terms of social security. That's what I want to ask: How much do living rooms cost, how much do people's lives cost? Is it ever something that can be compared to these two? I mean, why was that rejected? If there's no minister, then perhaps our fellow commissioners can answer that, and our citizens can hear things from here that have not been heard in the Commission. Now, the other issue is, in fact, rights violations and conspiracy as a result of the politicalisation of the justice system. You know, as a result of the politicalisation of the justice system, cases such as Ergenekon, Balyoz, Oda TV have unfortunately been seen in this country with special authority courts, as the prime minister calls them; in these cases, people have been wrongfully, in prison for no reason. Most of them came out of violations made by the Constitutional Court, but some of them are still in prison. The case, which began as the Istanbul espionage case, which was decided that it had nothing to do with espionage, was later acquitted of people for espionage, but later sentenced for what was their head, who had no connection to the organization, by our sailors and TÜBİTAK officers. This trial began in October 2010 and ended in August 2012, and the Supreme Court approved it. Like any other case, it started with an anonymous e-mail. Then these people were arrested, thrown into prison. What was the nature of these people? They were working on the National Ship Project, and they were writing national software. Right now, we still have sea colonels and colonels from these people in prison. Who are they? Sea Colonel Necmi Yıldırım, Colonel Koray Eryasha, Tamer Cetin, Sergeant Major Adnan Yilmaz, are still in prison. Although there are a lot of people out there -- it's a great thing they've been dating, but -- there are people who are still stuck in prison with those fake digital data. They applied to the Constitutional Court on the grounds that it was a violation of rights, but the Constitutional Court forgot about these people. These people in prison, exposed to this conspiracy, with fake digital data, who have been victimized, who have not been examined by an expert witness, are still in prison. Because these people were the backbone of the Navy and at the same time the TUBITAK, creating the brain, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Both our Navy and TÜBITAK have broken their backs by being held captive. That's why I'm calling the Supreme Court from here. He wishes that his applications would be evaluated as soon as possible, and I offer them respect and love from here.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0222par0401	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... The motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions on Article 34, two of which are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first (part) of the 639 rows of law shall be changed in the form of the first (part) of the first (part) of the frame 34. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Osman love Bak Yilmalmaz Osman Boyraz İstanbul İstanbul Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Sumer Oral Mehmet Şandir Ali Öz The draft of Article 3 (c) of Article 3 of Social Security Law, dated 34-16/5/2006, added to the statement "preparing education programmes, preparing education or training, certifying research and consulting activities on these issues," which came to a conclusion from the statement "In the social security area." Now, since the motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article 34 of the current 639 Numbered Bill of Law, dated 16/5/2006, under Article 3 of the Social Security Institution Act 5502. Pervin Buldan Erol Dora İdris Bauken The signatures of the other motion are: Ramadan Kerim Özkan Rahmi - Levent Sky of Love Mahmoud Tanal Free Musa Pine İlhan Demirözü Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0223par0434	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0222par0435	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0224par0436	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0222par0437	Mr. Bauken, will you speak?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0225par0438	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0222par0439	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0225par0442	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion. I salute you all. Here, when social security issues are discussed, we, especially in society, try to make the problems that our people live in the social state as visible as possible that the state should actually have, and we're actually speaking to your conscience a little bit. On the basis of this motion, I particularly want to talk to you again about these SSPE patients, who are an important victim of the social security system in Turkey. We've had several conversations on this bench about the SSPE disease, we've brought a motion to investigate, families have visited the Assembly. In this regard, in fact, during our last meeting with ruling party officials, we also had a positive impression that a research commission could be established in the new legislative year, and hopefully, the ruling party will fulfill its commitment. With such a positive atmosphere ready, we call on the entire council to be sensitive about these SSPE patients. Most of these families are poor enough to afford medicine and treatment. Families often experience the drama of their children melting before their eyes, and on the other hand, they have to carry together the desperation and conscientious accounting of failure to pay for treatment. Thus, there is a need for an arrangement for all treatments and medical costs in these families. The social government has to pay for all of this. If there is a joint consensus on this, especially if the ruling party's group's vice presidents are interested in the matter, we can all form this motion together, and we think we can spend it in the joint initiative of the four parties in the course of the bag law. Therefore, we do well on this blessed day because these are the areas in Turkey where the social security system should actually be dealing with. So, when you say social security, you don't mean, on the one hand, you're bringing in an application like retirement in a grave, and you're creating victims from the system that exclude our citizens. That's exactly what we're talking about. We're all talking about solving problems like this, making people feel about how important social security really is and how important social government really is. So we think we should all discuss these areas of trouble together. We have the means to solve many problems here in the social field, in the field of labor, in the field of work, and the resources of Turkey are actually enough for all of us to solve these problems. As long as we're looking for a little cooperation of our intentions. In the previous motion, I mentioned the drama of military families who died suspiciously in this barracks. Believe me, an arrangement that we're going to make on these two issues may bring up some very good results that may be able to prevent all the work we've done during this bag of legislation, and it may also restore the trust of the community -- the people -- about the problems they've been having. So I specifically wanted to get in touch with this proposal. I'd like to request a special attention and a special effort from Mr. Kubbat. About these two motions I mentioned. I'd like to point out from here that I expect the lawmakers in the entire EC PARTY group to show some sensitivity. There's nothing wrong with opposition. We took out the talks that all three political parties had made earlier on this issue from the parliamentary bench. I mean, if something like this is prepared, I'm saying that the three of us are ready to support it, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0226par0452	Thank you. Volcano Canalioğlu, Tripoli MP who wants to make a statement on the same proposals.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0227par0455	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment under the motion we have made on Article 34 of the Dair Law to change certain Laws and Laws under Article 639. I salute your committee. Now, of course, we're discussing the bag of law, and we'll keep in touch. However, there is everything in this bag of legislation, it seems, but when we look at it, there are no materials that will meet the expectations of all parts of society, of all sectors; there are no substances that will comfort them, make their lives easier, respond to their expectations. For example, the men of the ship... Today, in our developing world, in our country, surrounded by the sea, there is a lot of effort to develop ship trade, and on these ships are shipmen, ship coaleers, ship-fighters, divers, and people from a variety of groups. When we look at them, they spend more than six months on board, and of course there are some negativeities in the psychological and social lives of people who have spent more than six months on board. What are they waiting for now, people who are away from their homes? They say: "We work under difficult conditions, and the number of days of bonus days shown for every three hundred and sixty days in this workplace should be up to one hundred and eighty days." Is this in the bag of law? No. Another: Now, friends, local elections are being held. We elect local executives in local elections, we elect city councilmen, we elect mayors, and the mayors are elected. Dear friends, now, when the chiefs are elected, women are elected. There's something you all know, but you don't notice. Now, if she doesn't work before she becomes chief, if she doesn't have a social security thing, she takes advantage of the brain's health insurance. He's running, he's elected chief. This time it's said: "You can't take advantage of the health insurance of the brain, now you'll pay your own insurance premium." If there's such a thing in local governments, why is there a distinction between men and women? Women also say: "Let's continue with health insurance, rather than paying our own premiums after we've become headman. " Is there such a thing in the Bags Act? No. Dear friends, teachers, as we all know, who raised us... I'm proud to have a student deputy here in the AKP group who I taught in junior high school. We work for them, we bring them to certain places. Most of us are teachers here. Under very difficult circumstances, standing... we have heirs in our feet, some of us have broken vocal cords, but unfortunately, our teacher friends, the people in the position of teachers, have no sense of weariness. Is this in the bag? This isn't in the bag either. Teachers, working, raising us, trying to make good children for the country, for the nation, but they don't. Dear friends, now we have friends of police officers. They're on watch day and night, facing negatives all the time. They have expectations. What are their expectations? They say: 'Make right our rights.' What are your rights? What are your rights? Yeah, we don't expect anything, make our additional indicator 3600; one. Second: What if we reach a certain age, our children grow up, they come to college, but then you tell us, "You go to the second singing service. Why should we go to the second singing service?" Is there an arrangement in the bag about them? There's no regulation on that either. Of course, there's nothing about the disabled either, fellas. The total population of the disabled population in our country is 12.29 per cent friends. Thirty-two percent of our disabled citizens are unable to leave their homes because of their physical environment arrangement, 22 percent are unable to enter public buildings and areas, 50 percent are having difficulty getting into public transport vehicles, and many are unemployed. Now, the government says we're going to take 40,000 disabled citizens. We don't know how many of them he's taken. Did he get the whole thing? Well, thank you if he did, but we have a lot of disabled citizens out there, and they're expecting work. They don't expect us to look at them emotionally, they expect us to act on the idea that everyone in this community is a disabled candidate one day. Anything in the bag about their lives? No. There's everything in the bag, but there's nothing about the general public. Our Wish friend here told me, our women work in the fields, in the vineyards. Especially our women in the countryside, they're nerds, they work in the fields, they work in the fields, they work in the vineyard, they can't be covered, they can't be insured, but if they have given birth at the time, they can't be subject to that law, but what happens after the law comes out? They can be in debt by January 3rd. So, what's their crime? If he works in the field, in the vineyard, in Çaykara, in Ataköy, in Hadurnebi, in Düzköy, if he is working as a nerd, if he is trying to contribute to the family environment there, what is their sin if he has no insurance? I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0228par0466	Thank you. I submit the same motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends The draft of Article 3 (c) of Article 3 of Social Security Law, dated 34-16/5/2006, added to the statement "preparing education programmes, preparing education or training, certifying research and consulting activities on these issues," which came to a conclusion from the statement "In the social security area." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0229par0474	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0228par0475	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0230par0476	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0228par0477	Ali Oz, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0231par0480	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 34 of the Law Bill 639. I salute your high council. I know you're all impatient, and may God accept your prayers, it's time for you to leave. I'm going to ask for three basics and finish my speech. When this bag was being passed, why were other people not remembered who died in mining accidents, thinking about the 301 lives we lost in the Soma mining disaster as the Justice and Development Party Group? There must be a road map of the state in the deaths of the mine accident in the next process. There has to be a legal basis, an arrangement that everyone will agree to, and then, if that happens, this is how it's supposed to be done. So the Commission doesn't make sense of that, does it? It's possible to see it in a lot more than that. Turkey also experienced one of the major disasters in the Van earthquake, similar to the earthquake in Kütahya. So something's coming right up... what if people need to be lost collectively, in a way that raises social improvisation? So it's not really possible to understand why this bag was ignored when the law was being drafted, when it was being made. Again, in the army, the mothers say: "I delivered my child safely to the barracks. I am Mersin MP, from Silifke district of Mersin, uncle calls every week: I delivered my child safely to the soldier, he had a heart attack during his military service. He tries and falls 15 meters down from the tower. What about my kid? Why is my son not considered a martyr? I don't think there are many of our people in the army who have died in such a condition. These are the children of poor, poor, poor families who have already come from Anatolia. It's not that hard to give them anything as a government. I'd like to express that these should be considered. Again, we're bringing in pensions within Social Security, pardons for not being admitted on time for seniors, bonuses. Dear lawmakers, we have made this pardon a habit. Believe me, most people who are going to pay the Social Security Foundation bonus somehow, before an election, I'll get a pardon from the government, from the government. So, yesterday, our Labour Minister says: "We've given 5 percent to the one who deposits their premiums in time. " Then the contrast arises: If we accept the claim that this country has a really economically rapidly growing world economy, the world's 16th largest economy, why are these people incapable of depositing their bonuses on time? This needs to be resolved. Therefore, it means that we must pay more attention to these arrangements, and I wish you all the best. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0232par0491	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0233par0492	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit03spe0232par0493	I didn't vote. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0232par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 639 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I now submit to your votes the motion of Mersin MP Ali Oz and his friends on Article 34, which has been processed in the previous session: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "first" declaration of the current 639 rows be changed into "second" in the framework article 34. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Osman Love Bak Yilmaz Tunç Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0234par0015	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0232par0016	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0235par0017	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0232par0018	I'm reading the reason: Article 3 of Law 5502 aims to correct the misdemeanor. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0236par0022	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0232par0023	In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0236par0024	Mr. President, we've asked for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0232par0025	Mr. Proposition, I can't hear you, sir. If you'll step out front...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0236par0026	It's the same here, isn't it?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0232par0027	We will, we will, sir. The next item... There are three motions on Article 35. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0237par0031	He jumped, he jumped... [[Reporter Burdur MP Bajram Özçelik continued reading the motion]] 2/1816, 2/1747, 2/1765, 2/1775, 2/1794, 2/1797, 2/1799, 2/1808, 2/1837, 2/1869, 2/1899, 2/1906, 2/1924, 2/1932, 2/1938, 2/1954, 2/1957, 2/1963, 2/1983, 2/1997, 2/20200, 2/2032, 2/2051, 2/2051, 2/2056, 2/2056, 2/2065, 2/2065, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21, 2/21.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0238par0034	He skipped three lines, three lines.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0237par0035	He's been in the reports. Read it properly.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0238par0036	He jumped, he didn't read it right.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0237par0037	You can read the ending if you want, and the head. [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Burdur MP Bayram Özçelik]] ▪ Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu The first joke of Article 23 of Law 35-5502 added the bell below. "c) President of the Centre for Education, Research, Development and Co-ordination."Object Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 35 of the current 639 Numbered Bill of Law be removed from the draft text of Article 23 of Law 5502. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan Ramadan Kerim Özkan Levent Gök Haluk Ahmet Silver İlhan Demiröz Mahmoud Tanal
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0239par0058	Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0240par0059	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0239par0060	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0241par0061	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0239par0062	Haluk Ahmet Silver, Balıkesir MP. Here you go, Mr. Silver.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0242par0065	Mr. President, members, I'm going to talk to you about Article 35. I would like to express the ruling party's position on working conditions and labour rights through this clause. Maybe if we say it 40 times, it could actually replace him. Dear friends, in this period of government, workers and their rights and conditions show us that they return to the period of the 19th century. In your era, the unionization rate of workers has dropped and the number of union workers has dropped. Workers' participation in trade unions is the only institution they can join to protect workers' rights. Accession to unions has been a feared condition for workers. Let it be, in your day, it has been as if laborers were in a position of service to another employer. I use this word because the subcontractorship function has gone to significant distortions because of the lack of control of this area and not drawing boundaries. I'm not saying it's like that in every firm, but there's a subcontractorial rage. If 80-90 subcontractors appear in front of workers working in a factory, the worker will have no seniority, no holidays, and no normal job security fees. If the worker is a toy amongst these subcontractors, then this institution has been monsterized by you. This out-of-control establishment has been monsterized in your time. The subcontracted subcontractorship has become fed on human hard work and life, and it's been brought to say that moral workers are the exception. I'm sorry, if there are millions of workers who don't get paid, don't raise, don't have human rights, and most importantly don't have job security. If a worker's contract increases several times a year, if it can be done several times a year, if the environment and the future of that worker are uncertain, if the worker is working in fear, that's what I should say. Guys, I went to a mine, there were subcontractors. When will every worker end my work? If I said hello and welcome to these visitors, would I lose my job? In your time, these are the conditions that have developed, the work and the work conditions have declined. You're a part of this cruelty and a partner because you've condemned the worker to work in uncertain conditions without job security. Look, we made a motion when this bill was being discussed in the Commission, and I gave it to you as an offer of the law earlier. Our coal mine workers are dying because they lack standards. There are such incomplete standards that the conditions in the world's most backward, backward countries apply in our mines, that even South America has abandoned them, but they haven't. The commission said, "Look, there are over 300 dead miners lying there. Come, let's legalize the escape chambers of life. We said there's gas in the mines, there's fire. You're just saying: "We've given masks. " Are there modern stations and rapid transit systems? If they don't exist, you're going to put the escape chambers in there, and you're going to make it legal so that we can give our worker a chance to survive. You ran uphill, in this country, in the land where death roams the mines, placing you in a coal-black responsibility. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0243par0074	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0244par0075	We want roll call. There's just one more motion, I'll have it read. Is it the same thing?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0245par0078	It's the same thing, sir. The establishment of units specified in the article is also considered a revenue-producing activity in the institution. It is difficult for the public to edit their work towards improving the quality of public activity as a revenue-producing factor. With change, this problem is intended to be resolved. I will submit the same motions to your votes.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0246par0084	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0245par0085	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Özgün, Mr. Silver, Mr. Öner, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Çayoğlu, Mr. Gök, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Serker, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Öz, Mr. Demir, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yellow and Mr. Özgüvgük. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first joke of Article 23 of Law 35-5502 added the bell below. "c) President of the Centre for Education, Research, Development and Co-ordination." Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0247par0100	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0245par0101	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0248par0102	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0245par0103	Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0249par0106	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 35th Amendment. Dear lawmakers, it is possible to categorize this bag bill into threes: there are also arrangements that can be useful to our country, to our citizens. We also have what we consider to be harmful to the country's interests, public life, rights, law, justice, and what we consider to be the government's political interests. And in the third category, there are unnecessary arrangements. So in these blessed days of Ramadan, when we are on the eve of the presidential election, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is also taking time to make unnecessary arrangements late at night. That's why I wish such arrangements hadn't been made. Although we didn't want this item removed in our motion. Well, then why are you talking? That's what we're talking about to tell you it's unnecessary. Well, we took that promise to remind us of what needs to be done when the unnecessary work is done. Dear friends, the government, the Ministry of Labor, Social Security and the Ministry of Finance need to focus on what they really need to do. In working life, the government must focus on the injustices and injustices of those who earn their living with hard work. For example, the miners in Soma are still on time and are unable to receive their wages properly. This is one of the issues the Ministry of Labor, Social Security, the Ministry of Finance should be interested in in in the first place. Mr. Finance Minister is here. Last month, the miners of Soma Charcoals, the miners of the mine, where the accident took place, received short wages. It was later learned that the 17-day salary after May 13th was considered above ground work, which, of course, has a tax exemption underground, which was said to be tax cuts without being on the ground. It's been over a month, we're asking, no answer. We asked the Minister of Labor, we didn't get any answers; hopefully, we'll get an answer from the Minister of Finance. I mean, if in a month a country, a state, a ministry can't make its return, fix it, we're in for a hell of a ride. Dear friends, we're moving fast towards Eid and Eve. Now, one of the government's duties is to monitor the employee's workman's pay on time and to see if he's paid in full. For a few days, soma has been crying again. There's a cry over the phone, through the Internet, through the text. I'd like to briefly sum up these cries, dear friends. Now, there are some companies owned by Soma Holdings. As with Soma Charcoal Ash, there's also a company called the Gurmin Machine. This is a company owned by Soma Holdings, and they've been in charge of technical investigations since 1990, and they've been producing them, and they've been screaming because they haven't been paid for two months. They're all on our phones. Now, isn't that right, dear friends? Why can't I get a worker's fee? They can't get it, and we've been screaming all the time. There's a company called Akcord, whose name is unknown, changed, and also known as Ada Metal employees. So they've been transferred from subcontractor to subcontractors, such as slave change, and the employees of this Akcord firm write petitions and collect petitions for injustice and unlawfulness. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And they're firing the petitioner. Warn Mining, those who can't get their wages and the citizens who survived the mine, the workers' future is uncertain. Hopefully, we'll speak of them in our next talks. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0250par0116	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0251par0118	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit04spe0250par0119	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit05spe0250par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 35 of the Law Bill 639, there was not enough decision to vote on Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and his friends' motion. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the 35th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions in the 36th article, two of which are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Sumer Oral Alim Ik Mehmet Şandir Article 25/B below is added to Law 36-5502 after Article 25/A. "Education, Research, Development and Co-ordination Center Chairman The duties of the 25/B-Education, Research and Development Centre are: A) In areas related to social security and health insurance, research, education, study, broadcast, documentation and consultation are available at national and international levels. B) To prepare a service training programme for improving institutional capacity and to train the staff who have succeeded in making special training programmes for the higher-ups. C) To prepare, implement, and evaluate the educational plan for institutional staff. ) Following developments in social security economics and financing. D) draft certificate programmes for social security legislation. e) Co-operation with universities and research institutes or by buying services, training programmes, research, development studies, or doing so. f) Education public institutions and institutions in social security issues, seminars and conferences. G) To organise training, seminars and lectures on social security for employees, employers or executive staff operating in private or public sectors, or to participate in organised training, conferences and seminars on these matters. đ) conducting studies of training, seminars, internships and staff exchanges with foreign diplomatic missions and relevant institutions in countries with dual social security agreements. H) Do other tasks similar to those given by the president." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 36 of the following Article 25/B be removed from the draft text, which stipulates that the Common 639 Numbered Bill of Law shall be added to Article 5502 after Article 25/A. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan The signatures of the other motion are: Ramadan Kerim Özkan Musa Pine of Rahmi Love Mahmut Tanal İlhan Demirözeş Levent Gök Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit05spe0252par0043	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit05spe0250par0044	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit05spe0253par0045	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit05spe0250par0046	Mr. Baluken, should we have the motive read?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit05spe0254par0047	Let's get him to read the motive. The establishment of units specified in the article is also considered a revenue-producing activity in the institution. It is difficult for the public to edit their work towards improving the quality of public activity as a revenue-producing factor. With change, this problem is intended to be resolved.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit05spe0250par0050	Ilhan Demiröz has asked for the same motion. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit05spe0255par0053	Thank you, guys. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion in Article 36 of Plan and Budget Commission Report 639. I salute you all with respect and love. Article 36 has been read by our friends, added Article 25/B, established as the President of Education, Research and Development. When I saw this clause, I examined the department of tasks, looked at the staff that had been assigned to the institution, and there were 92 casts. And I'm especially glad that Mr. Finance Minister is here because we demand that this 36th article be removed from the text, and I'll tell you why now. At the very least, I'd like to say that the fact that the Minister of Finance is here means that we will be more objective in this matter. The social security system has been reformed, and three major institutions have gathered under one roof. The goal was, physically, as staff, to reduce these areas as tools and to save resources, but now we see that a new unit is being established. It's a new expense, isn't it? At least 20 experts and 92 personnel will be in trouble, and I don't think Mr. Finance Minister will take too kindly to the situation because there is a Strategic Development Presidency doing the same tasks. I mean, we're having trouble understanding why it's made when there's a presidency like this, and there's such important things in between. I'm a public figure. TOPRAKSU; Path, Water, Electrical Directorate and the General Directorate of Land and Housing were merged and established by the General Directorate of Village Services. Later, these were closed, handed over to the state's private administration, and today the state's private administrations were transferred to municipalities. I'd like to say what kind of cumbersome structure it was in the beginning, maybe the goal was appropriate, but then we came across a massive public institution, which was built to save money, when we said units, branches, presidentials, office heads. In this regard, I would like to point out that we want this 36th item removed from this text. So, what else you got? It says here that when you study other substances, when you look forward -- how and what you're going to do -- you're going to provide education and counseling for valuable friends, income. Now, this government was in favor of privatisation of their programming and privatizing all their assets, public institutions. Now, here, within your own body, you're building a new unit for counseling. At the time, I understand that public institutions are being closed in the country, but in Ankara, the ministries are being established as general managers, and the office heads are being established, and they are being expanded even further. I would like to express in particular that the task of monitoring will be very difficult when counseling is given within its own power. So you're going to consult on one side, and you're going to supervise the institution you're consulting on the other. I want to point out that this is difficult, that you're going to go to the wrong spots. Besides, right now, there are institutions that offer this kind of consulting services. I also want to say that these -- this public ministry -- will take away the bread of friends who work at these institutions. In these feelings and thoughts, I demand that the 36th article be removed from this text, and I salute you all with respect and love. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit05spe0256par0062	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Muharrem Varlı (Adana) and his friends Article 25/B below is added to Law 36-5502 after Article 25/A. "Education, Research, Development and Co-ordination Center Chairman The duties of the 25/B-Education, Research and Development Centre are: A) In areas related to social security and health insurance, research, education, study, broadcast, documentation and consultation are available at national and international levels. B) To prepare a service training programme for improving institutional capacity and to train the staff who have succeeded in making special training programmes for the higher-ups. C) To prepare, implement, and evaluate the educational plan for institutional staff. ) Following developments in social security economics and financing. D) draft certificate programmes for social security legislation. e) Co-operation with universities and research institutes or by buying services, training programmes, research, development studies, or doing so. f) Education public institutions and institutions in social security issues, seminars and conferences. G) To organise training, seminars and lectures on social security for employees, employers or executive staff operating in private or public sectors, or to participate in organised training, conferences and seminars on these matters. đ) conducting studies of training, seminars, internships and staff exchanges with foreign diplomatic missions and relevant institutions in countries with dual social security agreements. H) Do other tasks similar to those given by the president." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit05spe0257par0082	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit05spe0256par0083	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit05spe0258par0084	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit05spe0256par0085	Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit05spe0259par0088	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made in Article 36. I salute you all. As I begin, I would like to point out that I condemn this persecution that has been going on in Palestine for several days. There, in front of the whole world, children, women, and old, Israel is using a disproportionate force to slaughter people, our Muslim brothers, but behind Israel, the President of the United States, Germany's explanation, behind Israel, as if they would just ignore the massacre there, and they watch people die without a care. I'd like to say that I also condemn these imperialist forces. At the same time, I also condemn the pressure the ISIS terrorist organization put on our Muslim Turkish brothers in Iraq and the persecution they've been subjected to. Of course, we're having a very bad time here as a nation. On all sides, there is persecution on the Islamic world, on the Muslim Turkish nation, and we must all form a common opinion against this persecution, but it is not right to ignore the persecution that ISIS has done while sharing the pain of Palestine with all of our fellow MPs in Parliament. So we have to have the same attitude everywhere, we have to share the same opinion so we can have a loud voice. My dear friends, as it has always been -- I've been a member of parliament for two semesters -- in those beautiful, empty days of winter, there are very irrelevant, irrelevant laws discussed here; when Congress is going on vacation, especially when such a Ramadan has begun, you suddenly have a love to make a law. You bring in a bag of laws, sir, you start with 60 articles, you go up to 180 articles, and when everyone should be here to worship, everyone should have a good evening with their parents, and we're all out of it together. So, as we've been deprived, there's a lot of staff working here, and unfortunately, they're being deprived. They don't have a chance to go to their house and make a name for themselves. So, like you and me, in the morning, there's no chance they'll be here at twelve, one o'clock; they'll be here at 8:30, nine o'clock. Yeah, it's a cruel thing to do. It's a pity. So you do the same thing every year, every year. In winter, you kill those times, you bring these laws to the legislators when the House is on vacation. This is persecution, and I don't accept it, and I condemn it. Again, the AKP classic, you present honey and poison in the same bowl. I mean, on one hand, you're bringing in laws that can actually benefit our nation, and on the other side, destroy the rights of our nation, even our officer, the law at the same time. Now, it began with the disaster in Soma. This bag of laws was forgotten in Soma. Then you removed the civil servants' right to go to trial. Then you brought in five years of privatisations to lift the laws and court decisions on the privatisations there. Friends, if you had made an arrangement about the disaster in Soma, about the people who were deprived there today, the law would have ended with everyone's vote. But you say: "We will also take away the law of the officers, and bring Soma. Then why are you offering us the choice between honey and poison, brother? Don't present it. Offer the honey or offer the poison, don't make us choose between the two. So bring here the law concerning the disaster of Soma, divide, put our hands together, let's take our hands out in one day, two hours, three hours, and be done with it. But you're saying that honey and poison are one and two. Brother, I don't have to eat poison. We don't have to make these people eat poison. So, you're doing your usual trick, you're doing it wrong. Mr. Finance Minister was here, he's up. I told you yesterday, there's nothing here about farmers when you're protecting the investors. When we say drop the farmers' VATs in the fertilizer, in the diesel, there's an additional burden on the state. You say, "You're giving tax forgiveness now, you're giving SK forgiveness." It also states that I wish you all a good evening.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit05spe0260par0098	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit05spe0261par0099	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit05spe0260par0100	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0260par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 36 of the Law Bill 639, the decision of Adana MP Muharrem Varlı and his friends was not sufficient to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... yes, there is enough to decide, the motion is not accepted. We'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the 36th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. In Article 37, there are three motions, two of which are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Sumer Oral Mehmet Şandir The following joke was added after the second joke of Article 28 of Law 37-5502. The General Directorate of General Health Insurance can employ expert personnel under contract to be employed and not exceed 20 people. In this case, the employee who will be employed under contract is considered insured under the first clause (a) of Article 4 of the Law 5510. Those who will be employed in this manner will be paid by the Institution at the same price as those who will be charged under Code 666. The personnel who will be employed within this scope will be assigned by the Institution for special information and expertise projects and will be employed in this way for up to three years at most. A person employed in this scope can be assigned to a project at most indefinitely and cannot be employed for more than three years on different projects. The qualifications of those who will be run in this manner, in the way they are taken, in the procedure of the contract and in the basis of the payment, and in other matters, are regulated by the Agency on the view of the Ministry of Finance," he said. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 37, which stipulates a change in Article 28 of Law 5502, be removed from the bill's text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan The signatures of the other motion are: The Free Levent Sky of the Cervix of Love Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0262par0028	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0260par0029	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0263par0030	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0260par0031	The Rahmi Türeli of Love, the İzmir MP, who wanted to speak on the same terms. Here you go, Mr. Türeli.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0264par0034	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 37 of the Law Bill 639. I salute your high council. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, Article 37 is about to be employed within the General Health Insurance Directorate within the Social Security Institution, and it organises the employment of expert personnel on contract condition that you do not exceed 20 people. On the other hand, within the same clause, it has been determined what the fees for these personnel should be. It is said that these 20 people will be employed, that a price regime is planned to not exceed 4 times the contracted wage ceiling for 10 people, and 3 times the rest of them. On the other hand, the same clause, the staff that will be employed by the institution could be employed for special information and occupational projects, and one person and one employee could be assigned for three years at the most. Now, dear congressman, where should I take it from, where should I criticize it? It's an extremely flawed arrangement, against the public staff system, the regime, the functioning of public affairs until the very beginning. For one thing, I'd like to ask you, who are these 20 people, and why are these 20 people needed? Because there's 20 of them. So it's very important that there aren't 20 people in the entire Social Security Agency, which has been added to the bill to hire 20 people in private. Then, what projects will these 20 people be working on? So when we call it Social Security, we know what the institution is doing, we know the field of duty. I mean, how can there be projects where there's no such staff in the institution or in other public institutions, such as this? So -- I just told you -- aren't these 20 people in public, valued lawmakers? Dear friends, right now there are 3 million, 183, 742 people working in public. There's universities, there's TÜBITAK, there's research centers in the ministry. All of these can be moved horizontally, temporarily or permanently. So you can't find a staff like this in public, and then you go, you commit a substance, you put a bag in the law, and you take 20 people. What's it for? To run a project within the General Health Insurance Directorate. I say, "Woe to the people! If the public has fallen into this situation in Turkey, then there really is a serious problem. As AKP, you must question your 12 years of power.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0265par0039	In 12 years, they destroyed the government, destroyed it.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0264par0040	Unless... On the other hand, I'd like to ask, why did you predict an arrangement outside the public staff price regime? Friends, what did it say when you issued the decree under the Law of 666? The principle was clear, there was a principle in the public that equal jobs should be paid. You're violating this, and then in a special clause, you're taking these under contract, and you're also saying that I'm going to give four times the contractal wage ceiling to 10 people and three times the price ceiling to the others. There's no such thing, my friends. So how are you going to run the SGK the day after tomorrow? How much restlessness will you create within the institution? I mean, why are you bringing this stuff in front of us without thinking about it? Gene, another issue: Why do you employ such people for only three years? Keep it running longer, 20 years, 30 years. Let those people get better, get better at it, get better at it, learn about the agency, learn about what he's gonna do. You don't do that either, and at the most, you run it in three years, like you're getting outside counseling. So, I'd like to ask, dear lawmakers, what will you say to the TBMM tomorrow when another institution arrives with such a request? The government has a lot of institutions. There's some strategic stuff going on. There's national defense, there's Internal Affairs, there's the Ministry of Industry, there's all of them. So you've got these 20 people out, and if the other ministry comes in tomorrow, they'll say, "Yahu, you just took out the bag in the law, you gave it to the SGK, why don't you give it to us 20 people, 30 people, 50 people?" Because you're setting an example. If you set a precedent in public, everyone will use it. So this, my friends, shows that you have no right to violate and break your own principles as AKP. I'm saying this last statement: this is a harmful substance, it's against the public staff regime, it's certainly in violation of the basic principles that exist here, and it's going to cause serious public unrest; I demand the withdrawal of matter, and I offer respect.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0266par0046	Thank you. Mr. Idris Baluken, the Bingol MP who asked for the same motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0267par0049	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion. I salute you all. I'm signing all the statements from the Republican People's Party. I'd like to get right to the point, since he's been saying a lot of things that I'm really thinking about saying here. You need to fully reconsider your position on this personnel policy in particular. I mean, it's not in the government to go into so much staffing while contracting staff, to put public space in such a partisan manner. The AKP government must work as the government of 77 million after the election. You should not only serve as the government of the AKP. And you're not supposed to look at what people think, what political thinking, what ethnicity they come from. Here, let's say that, let's say, you've arranged the bag with a special clause in the law, so we're past the 20-person takeovers. I know from my own knowledge that lists are being sent to a public institution even when the workers who work for a minimum wage on cleaning, security, food are being paid. What kind of a thing is that? Isn't this the right meal? Most of the time, while the staff were hiring, your mayors began to register. Doesn't he who deserves it, who works, who needs it, have the right to do it? Does he have to be from the AKP? We can't end these irregularities if we've been here for hours. But as a whole, there's already a problem with your public personnel policy. Look, I'm from the health community. In the health community, there are five people doing the same job; 4/A/B/B/s, 4/C/S, the staff, the subcontractor, they do the same thing, but their social rights are different, their wages are different; therefore, there is no peace at work, no peace at work, nor until now, you know, you've come up with a solution that you've brought about this. And if you're going to do something about personnel policy, you know, in between, no one notices it right away. So, don't judge it through matter; bring proper regulations, let's discuss it together, let's find the right way. Look, this is just a coincidence about subcontractors, they called me from the Solhan district of Bingley, before this article was discussed. There is the Kalehan Dam, and you have made the Kalehan Dam a pursuer for Özltın and Genghis Construction. You know, in the phone talks, the best Kurdish dead Kurds are Kurds. You know, the ones who curse the value of the Kurds -- I don't know, we can't talk about it here -- you've turned all the villages there into millions of dollars and put them in the pockets of these two contractors, and these two contractors, they're not just making these millions of dollars, they're firing subcontractors who work there. 40 workers were thrown out today for no reason. The workers who went looking for their rights were threatened by being shot at by their private security. Two months ago, they did it again, took out 52 workers. We spoke to the Ministry immediately, we exposed them from here, they had to get those 52 workers back, but now we're learning from those workers who left work that day that they've filed a public case against 22 of the workers, and they're thinking of collecting 6 billion fines in the form of 6 billion fines from each of them. Is there such an understanding? So you're going to cash out all the resources of a county, the future of every village in that area, and you're going to put them in their pockets, and they're going to exploit the labor of the villagers who work there for minimum wage, and they're going to pressure the villagers. We don't accept that. Look, this is about Kalehan Dam -- Mr. Minister, if you've taken notes -- it's up to you to fix it. If you don't fix it, we will. We don't leave shoes on those racist, exploiting businessmen, let's be clear about that. I salute all of you with these feelings.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0268par0058	I will submit the same motions to your votes.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0269par0061	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0268par0062	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Demir, Mr. Öner, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Gök, Mr. Pine, Mr. Clean, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Yellowhead. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends The following joke was added after the second joke of Article 28 of Law 37-5502. "Usual employees can be employed under contract to be employed by the General Directorate of General Health Insurance and not exceed 20 people. In this case, the employee who will be employed under contract is considered insured under the first clause (a) of Article 4 of the Law 5510. Those who will be employed in this manner will be paid by the Institution at the same price as those who will be charged under Code 666. The personnel who will be employed within this scope will be assigned by the Institution for special information and expertise projects and will be employed in this way for up to three years at most. A person employed in this scope can be assigned to a project at most indefinitely and cannot be employed for more than three years on different projects. The qualifications of those who will be run in this manner, in the way they are taken, in the procedure of the contract and in the basis of the payment, and in other matters, are regulated by the Agency on the view of the Ministry of Finance," he said. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0270par0078	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0268par0079	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0271par0080	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0268par0081	It's the Alim Light Kütahya MP who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0272par0084	Mr. President, I've been promised a amendment motion on the number 639th Amendment of the underprivileged Bill of the Law. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, as my predecessors state, regulations for the employment of contracted personnel, which will not exceed 20 people to be employed under the General Health Insurance Directorate of the Social Security Institution. ▪ There is an arrangement in which 10 others will receive a fee that will not exceed four times the ceiling price of 4/B personnel, while others will receive a fee that will not exceed three times the price of the ceiling. Assuming that this is not true, and that this will be in violation of the provisions of Code 666, which you have submitted to Turkey with the principle of equal salary for the same work, we have proposed that these personnel should be paid equivalent to those under the Law of 666. So let's get rid of that injustice within the institution, whatever expert in other institutions is getting the same job, let's let the new friends get the fee, and we don't want serious imbalances among the institutional staff. Now, of course, we have some questions as to who are these 20 people? Do we have some very valuable friends who are three years away from retirement, who are predicting a very high-payment offer from the ceiling, so that they don't go over four times as many as 20 people, or are they going to employ a very special job that can't be done in other institutions so far? There's only 20 people in 77 million to do this very special job? We can't stop thinking about that, precious lawmakers. So let's either fix this the way we propose, or, as in previous motions, you make a motion and take it out of this text because it can't really be interpreted as a well-intentioned substance. Otherwise, it's an arrangement open to all kinds of different evaluations, and we don't think that's true. Otherwise, this conviction could put us all in some kind of trouble. I'd like to take this opportunity to bring up a few more issues. I don't know if he's here, he's just arrived during roll call, Mr. Finance Minister, and there's an announcement on news sites today that we've had a very successful privatisation process over the past year. We got $12.5 billion in privatisation revenues. We've also met with our energy minister, and we've agreed on the next, next, privatisation of institutions. Next is the privatisation of Bronzebilek, Hamitabat and Soma Termic Plants. Mr. Secretary, I wish he were here. You're just after the money that you sold and put in your pocket or came into the government vault. 750 people were thrown out before the blessed Ramazan month at the Seyitömer Termic Plant and the Lineite Coal Company, which you privatized a year ago. Today, those people expect to be hired, unemployed, or returned to the state's defeated rights. Let's sell it, no matter what happens after us. If you keep saying that you've had a very successful privatisation process with your understanding, one day these unemployed people can knock on your doors too. So, it's a very wrong policy. If privatisation is to be done, it must be done with the right and truly value, and the rights of the staff there must be guaranteed legally. It is a great injustice for our 301 citizens, who have unfortunately lost their lives in Soma, to not be given a right to public employment, for example, to save their lives, or to benefit from the benefits. They're calling us all the time, and I'm sure they're looking for you. At the very least, I think that the person who died in a mining accident to this day should be given the right to employment for nearly 900.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0273par0091	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 38, two of which are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Sümer Oral Mehmet Şandir Cemadın Simsek Manisa Mersin The second chapter of Article No. 38-5502 of the Law was added to its statement following the declaration of "The Other Office Chairman": "Education, Research, Development and Co-ordination Centre." Congressmans, both motions I'm going to read now are of the same nature. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. Musa Pine Ilhan Demiröz Free Private Levent Gök Ali Haydar Proposes The signatures of the other motion are: Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0274par0115	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0273par0116	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0275par0117	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0273par0118	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP who wants to make a statement on the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0276par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly again. Just now, we ran out of time to talk about these 20-person chartered staff arrangements. Actually, there's a problem right in front of us, and it's a shame for all of us. We have seven Kavas friends in this House, in the position of 4/C, where we work together. During a meeting of a bag bill, we actually agreed to resolve the problems of these friends, along with other political parties, but then, I don't know, the AK PARTY co-chairs, they said the Parliamentary presidency was a problem. So, we had to make an arrangement for seven of our 4/C colleagues -- who work here a lot more than we do -- to move from 4/C to a position of staff. It's been almost a year, and we still haven't solved it. So, Mr. Group, we've been renegotiated with the vice presidents to resolve this problem, so that we can all take a look at what's in the way of this, to eliminate the victims of our colleagues. And while we were waiting for an arrangement, we found out that your 20-person staff was prepped, that you had made your staffing arrangements for other institutions, that our colleagues were victims, but you bring different things here. In particular, I'd like to ask all members of the group, during this bag bill, to remove the obstacle to the situation of these seven Kavas friends, and to do together the position that these seven of our friends deserve. Because they have ten years, fifteen years, twenty years working in this House and still have this concern, and I consider it a shame for all of us. Of course, this bill, in fact, was presented to the public as the government always making extensive arrangements for Soma. We work late, we work here until midnight, but unfortunately, we don't make arrangements here to cover this wound, which will be a cure for this disaster in Soma. The Soma miners came here again the other day. Soma miners have expressed their discomfort over the coldness of the problem. In fact, we think that even this discomfort -- for all of us -- is a subject that requires us to question ourselves enough. Different things came between us, regional developments, the massacres of Israel, the massacres of ISIS, the presidential elections, Soma fell off the agenda. I mean, in this bag bill, we've come up with an approach to Soma. To forget how we buried 301 miners in the ground overnight. But it was obvious what had to be done. Look, in public, especially in these mines, before the redevance system, subcontractorization, this chief system of exploitation is removed, we invite new disasters every minute, nonstop. In fact, many flares came in front of us after Soma. In Iconia, Balıkesir, Zonguldak, Şırnak, the miners lost their lives again, but since we are faced with a massive massacre of 300 numbers, we have come to a position of understanding that these miners have lost their lives. It's obvious that we don't even see the basic living rooms on this bill. Mr. Secretary says in one of the regulations they've drawn up last time, that none of us know what it means, what it means, and what it means, in fact, that we don't see very much in this mining literature. I mean, we're dealing with an arrangement that doesn't even bring a standard of living rooms to protect the worker. Again, we do not see a clear stance on what to do with the ILO contracts Turkey has set up on the withdrawal. We're afraid that we're going to have to renegotiate with these new crises. I call upon the government and the AK PARTY to be sensitive.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0277par0130	Thank you. Ali Haydar Öner, MP of Isparta who wants to speak on the same motions.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0278par0133	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, on May 13th, there was a disaster in Soma. 301 of our pure-hearted workers were buried in the black earth with the black writing of coal: they were martyrs of the sweat of their foreheads and of the lawful gains. They left behind grieving wives, mothers, fathers, 432 orphans. Some babies were born without a father. Their pain had to be eased at once. The government and subcontractor were flawed. The state was a suspect in heavy negligence, subcontractor, in-depth crime. On the one hand, the towering skyscraper, the greedy subcontractor, brutally exploiting the poor workers, shamelessly using the cheeky uncles. The materials were outdated, the boss was ruthless. It was necessary to ease the great pain at once. But, what did we do? The commission was occupied for thirty-nine days, and the Soma bill was said, and everything was put into Soma. And we've been working on the General Assembly for a week. Turkish National Assembly workers face a practice they do not deserve on the day of blessed Ramadan. It was too late to heal the wounds by bringing water from forty streams when it was necessary to ease the pain. You didn't keep your promises. Ramadan is passing, the festival is coming. The pain of mothers, fathers, and wives has not stopped, nor have the tears of the orphans been wiped away. The presumptuous who kicked the Painful Somalı. Come on. It wasn't said. According to Arinc, there are no documents! No mercy, no conscience? The official who slapped and blasphemed against our societal citizens was invisible, unseen. They have neither heard, nor seen, nor know, nor can their hearts be satisfied, nor can they speak. And when they speak, they disbelieve in their fear. Let us remind you that those who remain silent in order to save the day will also be held accountable for persecution as well as for power. What is it? The agency will be reinforced with this clause, and the president's proposal will be appointed with the minister's approval! Previously, the President of the Social Insurance Institution was founded by the Retired Ark of the Republic of Turkey and the BUG-KUR closed, you said. In 2011, the General Directorate of Social Insurance was split in two by the State of the Law No. 665. The General Directorate of the Finnish Security Service and the General Directorate of Insurance Prims were established, and the services provided with 8 apartments were moved to 16 apartments. Those assigned here were usually predetermined. It's called khantalization. It's called fraternization. We have other matters to discuss, but time is short. The Board of Education Research and Development is being used as a support unit, but there are tasks associated with the Centre for Strategy. Part of the clauses imposed on the commission are being withdrawn in the near hours of iftara, sahur. Hopefully, it's a sign of guidance. So why did we lose all this time? But if it is not justice, then there is no respite for the wound, nor is there blame for those who delay (it). May God forgive those who have not completed the work in seven weeks, and have not shown the ability to complete the task in one week. I'd like to pay tribute to the esteemed lawmakers who are trying to do their duty without any ulterior motives, without any ulterior motives, without any ulterior motives, without any ulterior motives.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0279par0141	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends The second chapter of Article No. 38-5502 of the Law was added to its statement following the declaration of "The Other Office Chairman": "Education, Research, Development and Co-ordination Centre." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0280par0149	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0279par0150	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0281par0151	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0279par0154	Members of parliament have been the European Champions of our Hope National Basketball Team, who defeated Spain in the U20 Men's European Championship finals held in Crete. We congratulate our young athletes and wish them well. [[Applause]] You have asked for a word on the motion, Lightning, Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0282par0162	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the National Party of Movement for Change in Article 38 of the Law on the Amendment to the Laws and Laws of Some Laws and Laws that we are discussing in accordance with the 639 rows of law. On this occasion, again, I salute you, the esteemed committee. Dear MPs, again, have been moved into the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, against the Constitution and the Civil Charter 639 rows, and against the rules and principles of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Despite so much work, the members of the Plan and Budget Commission have said, "Let's get this bill out to whom, for what, without knowing what it serves, without discussing it with any party groups or social parties, without discussing it with the parties and social parties -- what other promises -- to fulfill it. Look, blessed Ramadan day, without further discussion or extension." The opposition, however, has a very strong reaction to this law, which has been brought in without arguing with social parties, confederates. In response, the opposition wants to exercise all rights born to him from the Civil Code. For that reason, I would like to point out that our esteemed AK PARTY friends here are not too good at accusing the opposition in such a way. The AKP Group, which is used to using religious emotions and regulations as it is in everything, wants to remove these laws and proposals from parliament with a majority of fingers, without going to share them with opposition parties. This has become the AKP classic. The majority continue to use their will as a means of pressure on democracy. The AKP, which is used to solving all events with a majority of fingers, is therefore forced to change the laws brought to the TBMM without being shared with political parties and social partners, without having their views taken, sometimes without being approved by the President, and some of them have to be renegotiated in the Turkish Grand National Assembly in a very short time. Dear lawmakers, the government must bring these very troubled legislation and proposals to Parliament under the Constitution and the Civil Code under more comprehensive, detailed work. Ta came back in the 1974s, 1940s, 1950s, where the laws that were passed were still valid, still under the rule, that many of the laws that we made during the 27th term were brought back to Parliament to be renegotiated, and the Law on Business Health and Safety came back last year to be changed; and we have established Social Insurance Act 5510 again and again on the agenda.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0283par0167	The 24th term.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0282par0168	Which one are you asking, Mr. Recep?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0283par0169	The 24th term, not the 27th.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0282par0170	I said 24, you got it all wrong. The 24th term was often forced to make changes. So I'm saying that this law-making technique, essentially, is not the way to make a law. Dear lawmakers, this law, as it does not solve the subcontractor system, makes it heavier. This law does not solve the problem. Again, by the end of it, this law, which quickly moves to the Parliament's agenda after the mine accident in Soma, does not meet anything that is required, as anyone may know, by the miners of Soma, the subcontractors of the subcontractors in the subcontract -- we are saying it again and again and again and again -- does not meet any of these things. The government must no longer give up these laws of extenuation and illusion. What I'm saying is, in the public's agenda, Turkey should keep the Grand National Assembly's agenda occupied by bringing laws to the benefit of the nation. Dear lawmakers, the 38th article that we are discussing with you is recommended to make a change in this SGK Act, in addition to the statement of Education, Research Development Centre, and Vice President of Article 29 of Law 5502. In our proposal, it was intended to do better by changing the name of the board to the centre of research development and coordination. On this occasion, I salute you all again. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0284par0176	Thank you. 4-Current of Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; Ankara MP Izzet Çetin; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party Deputy MP Oktay Köçal; İstanbul MP Sena Kallıtı's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Balukı; İstanbul MP İzken's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Çeçı; Ankara MP İzket Balukı's Party's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Democratic Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP İdıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK) and İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK).
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0285par0179	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0284par0180	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll grant it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Öner, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Pine, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Clean, Mr. Öz, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Özgündüz. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. Number: 639) [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 39: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Sumer Oral Mehmet Şandir Ali Öz The first joke of Article 39-5502 of Article 34 (d) was changed in the following way and added the bell to the same joke after (g) bend and identified the existing dam. "d) Any standard form prepared in the institution, income from the sale of magnetic, electronics or smart cards, and any data line, Internet use and other rent revenues, real or corporate people, come from transaction fees received from the lists of other medical materials and products, including applications made to enter health services and/or product lists under payment, except drugs." "h) The income obtained from education and counselling services." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyelı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP İzkar's Party's Party's Democratic Party; İstanbul MP's Democratic Party (HDP) and İstanbul MP's Democratic Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Democratic Party's Democratic Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Democratic Party's Party (TK) and İstanbul MP's MP's MP's Party (TK) (TK) (İTİKİKİKİKİKİTİTİKİ); İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's İstanbul (İKİTİKİKİKİKİKİKİ) and İstanbul (İKİKİKİKİKİKİKİ); İstanbul's (İKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİTİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİŞİŞİŞİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİTİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİŞİŞİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİTİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİKİ We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. The Free Levent Sky of the Cervix of Love Musa Çam İlhan Demirözü Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Article 39 - 5502 of Article 34 (d) was changed in the following way and added the bell to the same joke after (g) bend, and the existing bench was identified. "d) Any standard form prepared in the institution, from the sale of magnetics, electronics or smart cards, and all kinds of data lines, Internet use and similar rent revenues, come from applications and contracts made to stay or to make changes in these lists." "h) the income obtained from education services. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Numbered Bill of Laws, which is in session, be removed from the draft text of Article 39, which envisions a change in Article 34 of Law 5502. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0286par0217	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0284par0218	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0287par0219	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0284par0220	I'm reading the reason: For workers who have lost their lives in Soma, it is not in line with political principles that there are legal provisions in this draft text, which are said to be issued, except by the legislation specified. With change, this problem is intended to be resolved. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Of Ankara MP İzzet Çetin and 13 MPs; Ankara MP İzzet Cet Çetin; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetcı Movement Party Group MP Oktay Kıkal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel; İstanbul MP Sena Kallı; Ankara MP Süt Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Ankara MP Sadir Dur Durmaz and Milliyetcı MP İzklı MP Oktay Öçal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's MP İdris Baluken; İstanbul MP Sena Kaleli and Ankara MP Köt Köt Küçılı; İstanbul MP Kötıtı MP Kötıtı MP İçılı; İstanbul MP Köçılı Baş MP İçılı Baş MP İçı MP İsıçı MP İsıçılı Baş MP İsılı MP İçıçıçılı MP İçılı; Ünı MP İsı Başılılı MP İçı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsıçılı Başılı Başılılı Baş MP İçılı Baş MP İsılılılılılılılılı MP MP MP MP MP MP MP MP MP MP MP MP MP MP MP MP MP MP MP MP İçı MP İçılılılılılılı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsılılı MP İçı MP İsı MP İsılı MP İçılı MP İçılılılılılılılılımılı MP İsılı MP İmılılılı MP İsılılılılılılılılılılılı MP of the MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP İsımılı MP İsılılı MP İsımılı MP İsılı MP İsılı MP İsı MP İsılı MP İsılı MP İsılı MP İsılı MP İsı MP İsılı MP İsı MP İsılılılılılılılılılılılılılılımlımlı MP
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0288par0227	What kind of work is that? When we listen, we get tired, we get bored. May Allah give you patience. [[Clerk Member Erzincan MP Muharrem Iş has continued reading the motion]] İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal; İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal; İstanbul MP Gülsel Tekin; İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer; Manisa MP Erkan Akçay; İstanbul MP Mustafa Kalaycı and Milliyetcı's Party of Parliament members Mahmut Tanal; İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal; İstanbul MP Ahmet Tanal; İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer; İstanbul MP Erkan Akçay; İstanbul MP Mustafa Kalajcı and Milliyetcı's Party's Party of Movement Party of İzmir MP Oktay Öçal; İstanbul MP Nuretti; Ankara's Democratic Party's Democratic Party; İstanbul MP Mekmet Tanal and Gürsel Tekın; İstanbul MP's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul MP İnan Akçay; İstanbul MP İçeşeşeşı; İstanbul MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı; İstanbul MP İçeşim; İstanbul MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı; İstanbul MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı; İstanbul MP İçı; İstanbul MP İçı; İstanbul MP İçı MP İçı MP Ü Ü Ü Ü ÜŞ ÜŞ Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü ÜŞ ÜŞ Ü ÜŞ Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Üsı Ün We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Ilhan Demiröz (Bursa) and his friends Article 39 - 5502 of Article 34 (d) was changed in the following way and added the bell to the same joke after (g) bend, and the existing bench was identified. "d) Any standard form prepared in the institution, from the sale of magnetics, electronics or smart cards, and all kinds of data lines, Internet use and similar rent revenues, come from applications and contracts made to stay or to make changes in these lists." "h) the income obtained from education services.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0289par0234	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0290par0235	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0289par0236	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0291par0237	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0289par0238	Volcano Canalioğlu, Tripoli MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Canalioğlu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Metiner, we are very happy as the Presidential Court, sir, to have the motions read over and over again.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0292par0243	May God give you patience, Mr. President, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0289par0244	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0293par0245	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin, I congratulate you on the European Championship of the U20 Basketball Team. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, right now, we're talking here, and we're talking to every friend who's come out, and every one of our valued deputies is talking in this conversation, saying: the situation of the subcontractors. What about the subcontractors? Are they going to be cast? I'd like to ask the ruling lawmakers here now: Dear friends, you're going to your constituencies. Don't you see subcontractors working there, in hospitals, in other public institutions and corporations? Don't they give you any trouble? ▪ Don't they ask what will happen to us? I wonder what you're saying about all this. Now, think about the money the contractors took and the job they did. Employers are awake; less men, less money, more work. Now, think of a garbage car, there are four people in the back of the garbage car, two people in a contract city, two people in a subcontractor on the other side. One of them gets what he needs -- $2, $3, anyway, he gets it, he gets it, he gets it, he gets it, and the other one works for minimum wage, and he has no guarantees, and they live in the same danger. Would that fit in the conscience, dear lawmakers? Why did these 660,000 subcontractors come so far, and why did they multiply so many? When you can't get a job, go work as a subcontractor, but let the contractors win here, let the employers win, you do a lot of work with less money, get a little money, but do a lot of work... And then there's the ISKUR. IKUR is very proud of this place. Mr. Minister told me here in the evening that it's like this, it's like this, it's like this. Dear friends, do you see people who are in İSKUR? I know you're going to the cemetery; you're going to pray, you're going to visit. How many months do our fellow gravediggers work there, our friends from İSKUR? How many months do they work? They've been working for seven months. And then what? He's free for four months. He's waiting four months, and he'll come back, and I'll be able to work from ISKUR? Guys, we're calling it "hand mercy." Let's find a staff for these subcontractors and work out a solution. Let's talk about nuts in the Black Sea District. On 29-30-31 March, you know, there was a frosting incident, and the frost nut manufacturers were damaged. Now, in order to compensate for these damages, the TARSIM will support what's under it, and the others will be waiting in an uncertain way. Now, look, in our 14 counties, dear friends, they've been predicting recollateries. Turkey's Agriculture Rooms Association has made 371,185 tonnes; Physcopy has estimated 430,000 tonnes; Food, Agriculture and Animalry Ministry estimates 412,000 tonnes. Friends, three separate estimates of three different institutions, three of which are huge differences. What kind of guess is that, guys? What kind of recklessness is that? What about these nut makers? In 14 counties, we can't handle the fate of our Turkey's very important export product -- the outcome of the nut product -- of which we can't determine its appetite as a recluse, dear friends. I'd like to invite you seriously from here. We have Mr. Sports Minister here. I'd like to ask you this: The ski track collapsed in Erzurum. Fortunately, when he was thrown out there, he collapsed, and he didn't lose his life, but if the facility that was built two years ago collapsed two years later, then woe to our facilities, woe to our sport! Now, I'm concerned, that there's an Abyssa stadium in Tripoli, it's built on the filling area, and the contractor who does this is the contractor who builds these ski resorts. Is there a technicality here now? They ask him, Mr. Secretary, if the stadium collapses tomorrow while the match is being played, if we win, but what if we lose? I'd like you to give us some information on that, please. If we want to improve Turkish sports, we must contribute to amateur sports, other sports, and all of them. I salute you all with the wish that this motion be accepted. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0294par0259	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit06spe0295par0260	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit07spe0295par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision on Article 39 of the Law Bill 639 was not enough to vote on the motion of Volcano Canalioğlu and his friends. Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide: All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends MADDE Article 39-5502 of Article 34 (d) has been modified in the form of the first verse (d) on the spoon, and the bell is added to the same joke (g) to come after the bend, and the existing dam has been identified. "d) Any standard form prepared in the institution, income from the sale of magnetic, electronics or smart cards, and any data line, Internet use and other rent revenues, real or corporate people, come from transaction fees received from the lists of other medical materials and products, including applications made to enter health services and/or product lists under payment, except drugs." "h) The income obtained from education and counselling services." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit07spe0296par0015	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit07spe0295par0016	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit07spe0297par0017	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit07spe0295par0018	Ali Oz, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit07spe0298par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the amendment motion we submitted to Article 39 of the Law Bill 639. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. Now, the Social Security Agency is trying to do something with this clause and the material that comes next. The point is, you're trying to get milk out of a goat, so to speak, like crazy Dumrul. These are the substances of which have been much more detailed, discussed, even expanded in the framework of the Commission, in order to increase the revenues of a number of social security institutions related to this clause, and how do we raise revenues to the institution? In this article, the company that goes to registration in the process of licensing drugs pays a price to the Ministry of Health. That's not enough. At SUTS, he has to pay the Social Security Agency extra, again, to get on the list, see which drugs are on that list, see which drugs are on that list. In order to increase revenues, the Social Security Agency has, as we all know, actually done practices that bring loads to all 76 million people living in the country at different levels. You remember, even though we've had intense objections before, you're interested in getting the SGK to increase medical fees, increase prescription prices, get $3 for prescription drugs, then get $1 for each pen... from a permanent citizen. You've finished your problem with the citizen, and now you're trying to get a commercial rate for selling the information that has been accumulated at Social Security to benefit someone else, so there's really no way to understand the logic of thinking about how and where and what we're going to win in the social security system. Of course, it's in our Social Security Agency -- it's in other substances -- sharing some data -- that you've seen how people's personal data has been sold, how income has been made by the Ministry of Health, especially by the health registers that people have used, and you've only been bragging about it with a TC ID number. From the time you said, we've seen how people's personal data has been made available. At the same time, these provisions also provide subroutines for a large number of practices that will cause legal problems when they are in the hands of non-exclusive people, and there are very serious examples of this. The Ministry of Social Security (SGK) or the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, in fact, has an urgent obligation to take very serious measures to prevent irregular spending on health expenditures, rather than increase health revenues in Turkey. Look, I've already said in my previous speech that since the Full Day Act in Turkey, the working places of physicians, the opening of high-level professors at the university, the widespread increase of medical centers, medical clinics, the deals they made with the Social Security Agency -- I don't say because they're bad -- but because they're not well controlled, they bring serious weights to the Social Security Agency. It's clearly in the Department of Labor records of how much they're all worth. Imagine that more people in one county than the population have been there and been examined at some time. Here, when you release these data, people who have access to them are able to exploit it in a very comfortable way. As Social Security Agency, the Department of Labor and Social Security needs to take immediate precautions. If you don't take precautions to increase these revenues, or if the costs are increasing parallel to this, whatever you do to increase revenues, they can't all go beyond futile effort. This arrangement of Social Security is not really an ulterior motive. However, in addition to winning something each time, we need to review the social security expenses more clearly. I say that very serious regulations, legal sanctions, the provisions of the Turkish Penal Code, must be applied without exception. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit07spe0299par0032	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 40th article, two of which are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu's; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyelı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Şekerı's Party's Party's Party of Ministers and MP's Party's Democratic Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı's Party; İstanbul's Party's MP's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Democratic Party's Party; Ankara MP's MP's Party; Ankara's MP's Party; İstanbul's Democratic Party's Minister and İstanbul's Democratic Party's Minister's Party; İstanbul's Party's Party; Ankara MP's Democratic Party (HDP) and İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party (HDP) Minister of Turkey's Democratic Party (HDP) İstanbul (TK) İstanbul MP's Party of Turkey's Democratic Party; İstanbul (TK) MP's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul (TK) MP's Party's Party; İstanbul's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party ofTurkey 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty' We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Free Mosa Pine From the Cervix of Love "The title of Article 35 of the Law No. 40-5502 has been changed into "the legal state of the move-in, moving and moving assets and non-existent property," and the following joke has been added to the same article after its fourth joke. "The individual data and rights of employers, insurance people, general health insurance providers, pensioners, widows and orphans and other people who receive monthly grants cannot be sold in part or entirely without any means, with collective data and rights of individual data and rights. In addition to these, non-profit rights can be sold with the approval of the Governing Body." Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0299par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 639 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I have stated that there are three motions on the 40th article; I am correcting it, there are four motions. Now, next, I'm going to read the joint signed motion of the party groups: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework 40th amendment of the current Law Bill 639 rows be changed in the following way. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Rahmi Love Türeli Yusuf Halaçoğlu Recep Special Osman Love Look Ramadan Can "The title of Article 35 of the Law No. 40-5502 has been changed into "the legal state of the move-in, moving and moving assets and non-existent property," and the following joke has been added to the same article after its fourth joke. "In the firm, collective data and rights of employers, insurance people, general health insurance providers, pensioners, widows and orphans and other people who receive monthly from the institution cannot and cannot be sold and shared with the commercial secrets of businesses through collective data and rights consisting of individual data and rights. Other than that, the institution can sell or share its illegitimate rights with the approval of the Governing Body. In contrast to this joke, the Turkish Penal Code's relevant provisions apply to those who act." Now, the two motions I'm going to read are the same proposals. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 40, which envisions a change in Article 35 of Law 5502, be removed from the draft text of the current 639 Numbers Bill. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Mehmet Erdoğan Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Sumer Oral Mehmet Şandir Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0300par0027	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0299par0028	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0301par0029	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0299par0030	Yeah, I'll run the reason first: For workers who have lost their lives in Soma, it is not in line with political principles that there are legal provisions in this draft text, which are said to be issued, except by the legislation specified. With change, this problem is intended to be resolved.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0302par0033	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0299par0034	Mehmet Erdogan has asked for a statement on the same proposals. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0303par0037	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 40 of Law Bill 639. I salute you all. Now, you'll all see the difference when you read the previous version of this 40th article and the present state given by the joint signature of three parties. Here's why there's been fighting at the Commission for 40 days, why there's been fighting here for so many days. The opposition is blocking everything. (A little bit of that logic needs to be removed.) See, the way the bill was before the amendment offer: the firm can sell its non-profit rights with the approval of the Governing Body, except for the commercial secrets of its employers, insurance providers, pensioners, pensioners, widows and orphans, and other people who receive monthly grants from the institution, collective data and rights made up of individual data and rights and rights and rights of businesses. In this case, the commercial secrets of businesses cannot and cannot be sold and shared by the public data and rights of employers, insurance, general health insurance, pensioners, widows and orphans, and other people who receive monthly from the institution. Other than that, the institution can sell or share its illegitimate rights with the approval of the Governing Body. In contrast to this joke, the provisions of the Turkish Penal Code are carried out. It is said: Everyone must examine the difference very well. In one, more advanced than the incident of Oktar Babuna in the late 1990s, there is the sale of 77 million data in all Turkey, while the other prohibits it. There's so many cliffs, so many differences.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0304par0039	It's a shame you're giving so much false information.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0303par0040	Sir?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0304par0041	You're giving me very bad information.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0305par0042	Madam Secretary, please...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0304par0043	It's a very important thing to know so wrongly...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0306par0044	What kind of bad information, Mr. Secretary? You'll go out, you'll explain.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0304par0045	I'll explain in a moment, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0307par0046	Mr. Erdogan, go ahead, continue your speech, please. Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0308par0048	Now, Mr. Secretary, this text is shared here by any lawyer you make read it to. I mean, when you sell this information... who in the world can sell my personal information? Now, can you go buy my information on the deed from the deed? Can you go and get my population information from the population administration? Someone's going to come by, buy all my information about social security from you, about health care. You're saying personal data, so if it's not personal data... how is it wrong information? I mean, did I write that? What have we been fighting about for 40 days? Please, Mr. Secretary, I mean, let's take this a little bit more seriously. At this time of night, we discussed this substance, it came in front of you, and there was a change in the way that you agreed to it. In one of them, you say it can be sold, and one of them, if it's sold, there's criminal action against it. It's called, so there's a lot of serious differences. Today, we, however, are happy to see the ruling party's representatives of the ruling group at such a point of change, taking a step forward at this time of night. Because it was an extremely crippled, extremely dangerous, extremely unnecessary arrangement, which we believe has become at least harmless as it is now. We need to at least allow lawmakers from the ruling party to read and act together, not only to vote, but to read the material that comes their way, to fix things. Most of these substances are unread, so unfortunately... How many clauses does the opposition object to here, in this bill of law?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0309par0051	They don't suit you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0308par0052	If you had agreed with the Commission on the articles the opposition object to, this law would have been passed here by now, and it would have been over.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0309par0053	You're talking here without knowing the negotiations in the commission.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0308par0054	I mean, you don't come to compromise yourself, and then the opposition stopped you. You're here for nothing. So let's compromise, subtract the 10-15 clauses we want removed, and we'll give up the opposition.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0309par0055	What does that have to do with anything? All of this has been discussed in the commission, and the motions have been corrected.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0308par0056	It's all been discussed, and nothing's changed, so we're here to deal with it again. If it had changed, if everyone had agreed enough, we wouldn't be talking about it here today. I thank you all again, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0310par0059	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0311par0061	Mr. President, Mr. Kamer asked for the number of decisions at the head of the Youth, but...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0310par0062	I didn't hear you, sir. I specifically asked Bayram Bey. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu's; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyelı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Şekerı's Party's Party's Party of Ministers and MP's Party's Democratic Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı's Party; İstanbul's Party's MP's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Democratic Party's Party; Ankara MP's MP's Party; Ankara's MP's Party; İstanbul's Democratic Party's Minister and İstanbul's Democratic Party's Minister's Party; İstanbul's Party's Party; Ankara MP's Democratic Party (HDP) and İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party (HDP) Minister of Turkey's Democratic Party (HDP) İstanbul (TK) İstanbul MP's Party of Turkey's Democratic Party; İstanbul (TK) MP's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul (TK) MP's Party's Party; İstanbul's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party ofTurkey 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty 'sParty' We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Free Private (Manisa) and friends "The title of Article 35 of the Law No. 40-5502 has been changed into "the legal state of the move-in, moving and moving assets and non-existent property," and the following joke has been added to the same article after its fourth joke. "The individual data and rights of employers, insurance people, general health insurance providers, pensioners, widows and orphans and other people who receive monthly grants cannot be sold in part or entirely without any means, with collective data and rights of individual data and rights. In addition to these, non-profit rights can be sold with the approval of the Governing Body." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0312par0070	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0310par0071	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0313par0072	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0310par0073	Free Special, Manisa MP, who wants a word on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0314par0076	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, first of all, we need to talk about how dangerous it is to make this bag of law enforcement techniques, even law enforcement laws. Because the government made the first arrangement on this matter with the KHK. After that, the SGK can sell Gayrimaddi rights on the basis of authority from there. I mean, each of us is worth $1, and they didn't even give us the chance: let alone the free special dollar, keep the data hidden. They didn't even give us that opportunity. But then, you know, he came back from the Supreme Court. In this regard, various efforts have been made. In this bill presented to the Plan and Budget Commission, only it wrote: ▪ The Court can sell non-profit rights. (When you look at it, what are the rights to Gayrimaddi?) If you consider the issue in such a technological way only as this: search, business, rights, rights, rights to make, knowing how to do a job; selling something like the brand, patent, design rights, and the rights to design. What's the agency's defense? Why do you want to do this? They're explaining: we have computer programs, we've developed them, we're going to sell them to foreign countries; we want that. But we asked and we dug and dug with our proposals. Does this include patients' medical information, medical information, medications, or not? Finally, the understanding comes in. At this point, I have to hand it to you, the subcommittee and then all members of the Plan and Budget have contributed to this issue to put up obstacles, barriers. Today, when he reached the point of the joint proposal of those parties, he was now able to eliminate concerns, even referring to the penal code, and to take precautions against a number of malicious individuals in the matter. But, for one thing, it's important to make it clear that the institution's intention, in the beginning, is to conceal the issue and sell it before... Which, you know, was sold to a former ruling party MP's company. But, thank God, we've told all the friends, and it's about our friend from the past, and now he's not a congressman; he's a little bit more dangerous than that. It's so dangerous that it needs to be explained that there will be similar demands the day after tomorrow. If you're going to produce bioweapons that are more dangerous, special and lethal than chemical weapons, you can do something about them by combining them using anonymous data or collective data. So... Turkey's biggest problem is that even though the Constitution commands it, it still hasn't made the legal arrangement for the privacy of personal data. In the world, however, there are incredible advanced regulations, especially on the privacy of personal data, the confidentiality of patient information and patient rights and patient privacy. That's what we expect from the government, the Minister, at this time of night, with a directive and... Of course, this is a multidisciplinary job; with other ministries, especially the Ministry of Health, we need to look for a co-direction, including the Ministry of Justice, the Constitutional Commission, and, in essence, we need to make the final-minute arrangement to draw the main framework on this issue, not with the joint motions that the opposition has captured and the ruling party deputies have been able to persuade them to do so. Let us know that you can access all health information in the world in four categories. You know, this is the category where everyone gets it at the moment they're born: information is secret to everyone, and no one can see it. With the patient's written consent, you can loosen this. Stage two is that the patient's family physician and the doctors he allows to see. The data may be open to all physicians and pharmacists in the third level. If he's sick in the fourth level, then anyone who wants my data can see it. It's also possible. We need to work on this, and when a child is just born, that child's patient information is supposed to be closed to everyone. Each part of this will have to be by his own consent or by the consent of his family until he comes of age, where even at the point of family leave, even at the point of your father's knowledge, there are serious criticisms, and Turkey must pay attention to the laws in some countries. But the point of the joint motion at this time of night is satisfactory, but the main framework must be determined by law. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0315par0084	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0316par0085	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit08spe0315par0086	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0315par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 40 of Law Bill 639, the decision of Manisa MP Free Special and his friends was not sufficient to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 639 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework 40th amendment of the current Law Bill 639 rows be changed in the following way. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Rahmi Love Türeli Yusuf Halaçoğlu Recep Special Osman Love Look Ramadan Can "The title of Article 35 of the Law No. 40-5502 has been changed into "the legal state of the move-in, moving and moving assets and non-existent property," and the following joke has been added to the same article after its fourth joke. "In the firm, collective data and rights of employers, insurance people, general health insurance providers, pensioners, widows and orphans and other people who receive monthly from the institution cannot and cannot be sold and shared with the commercial secrets of businesses through collective data and rights consisting of individual data and rights. Other than that, the institution can sell or share its illegitimate rights with the approval of the Governing Body. In contrast to this joke, the Turkish Penal Code's relevant provisions apply to those who act." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0317par0016	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0315par0017	Does the government contribute?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0318par0018	Mr. President, a brief statement, if I may...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0315par0019	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0318par0020	Sir, dear friends, as the fellow speakers say, it's an important item, an important arrangement. So, thank you very much, everyone, for contributing to the Subcommittee, the General Assembly. Because we need to make such an important arrangement together, so if there's a lack, more, to contribute to such an important clause, and we need to be open to that contribution. As a matter of fact, as in the commissions, the General Assembly was subject to the same assessment. There was an assessment from the bench that would have led to a misunderstanding, not to say misinformation. It's said in the 40th article: Apart from collective data and rights of individual data and rights and commercial secrets of business, we're keeping them out of the question. But the dear friends, the group vice presidents, said: "Let's make it a little bit clearer. How do we do it?" It can't be sold. Let's just say it can't be sold. It's not going to be sold, even though it means the same thing. They said, "Let's say, make it clearer." I said, "That's very true." Second of all, we said, "Come, for further confirmation -- the provisions regarding personal data only exist in the Constitution and the penal code -- but since this clause is important, let's refer directly to the Penal Code here, and put the relevant arrangement here." It would be even better. He said that our friends and we carried out a more clear, more understandable, more understandable arrangement together. There's no other purpose here. Of course, in the first arrangement, the definition of "gayrimaddi's rights" was put in this bill, in the draft, because it did not include personal data here. But, again, in the subcommittee, it may include, perhaps, this may be misunderstood. A figure was removed because of the thought, which is also true. But what is the truth? There is no such thing as selling personal data in the definition of rights. Mr. President, the other thing is, there are a few issues about data sharing. As you know, there is no law on protecting personal data. There's an illegal law study going on right now, but there's a responsibility for all of us, of course, to prevent access to the institution's data by illegal means, so if you want to make this arrangement a common law on protecting personal data, then let's do it after that. If you want to call it a duty neglect, I think there might be a problem. It's an important measure that we take in the absence of information that is likely to be obtained by illegal means. I want to thank all the friends who contribute, all the groups. I wish him well.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0319par0027	But you didn't answer the question we asked, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0318par0028	Mr. President, I agree.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0319par0029	Yes, I'm reading the reason: It is clear that personal data from the Social Security Agency cannot and cannot be sold or shared by commercial secrets. Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions on Article 41, two of which are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the 639 Sequential Work Act and the draft of the Law on Some Laws and Budget Commissions, Ankara MP İzzet Çetin and 13 MPs; Adana MP Turgay Develi; İzmir MP Musa Çam's Law Proposals of Laws and Plans and Budget Commission Report 41. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Ramazan Kerim Özkan Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu MADDE has been changed in the following way, along with Article 36 of Law 41-5502. MADDE 36-The Agency is free of taxes, tax, tax, allowances, property tax, which were issued on 2/7/1964 due to the operations carried out under this Law, including electricity and gas consumption tax and fire insurance tax, 26/5/1981, and any amount of capital deposits and any kind of transactions, due to the amount of grants it will have, due to the amount of documents it will have, due to the imports it has, due to the removal of property tax, due to which it has been purchased and sold due to non-results. In any case the institution is a party to, the actual payment of power of attorney against the institution will be paid within thirty days of the application date of the bank account number, which will be issued on the basis of the payment of the fee and the charge of custody, the debtor or the deputy to the institution, as well as on the application and documents. Before that time, there will be no way to resort to acts of charity against the institution. If no payment is made during the specified period, the general provisions office will be collected. If the amount in the court's decisions is paid before the decision is finalised, the amount paid by the relevant authorities will be collected from the relevant authorities, along with the legal interest that will be processed from the date of payment. As a representative of the institution, I. A list of legal advisors, legal advisors and staffed attorneys will be handed down in writing or in the Office of Justice, as well as to the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office in the electronic environment, as well as to the chair of the district court, the military prosecutors and the Supreme Court of Justice. These lists are sent by the Chief Prosecutor of the Republic to courts around the judiciary, which are around the administrative judiciary, led by the district administration court. The names of those who will use the power of representation in court hearings in the high courts and district court court are reported to the chief prosecutors or presidents of the relevant courts. Those whose names are on the list can follow all kinds of lawsuits and executions as an institutional deputy. The names of those who have expired as a representative are reported to the authorities in the same manner. Present motions are of the same nature. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 41, which stipulates a change in Article 36 of Law 5502, be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Nursel Aydoğan The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0320par0061	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0321par0062	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0319par0063	First, I'll have you read the reason: It is not in accordance with the political principles that there are legal provisions in this draft text, which are announced to be issued for workers who have lost their lives in Soma. With change, this problem is intended to be resolved. On the same grounds, Mr. Erkan Akçay is a member of Manisa. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0322par0069	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I made a commitment to our proposal in Article 41. Now, this 41st article, the valued lawmakers, brings in some procedures where the Social Security Institution is exempted, more legal results, and exemptions that produce financial homework that should be paid at some cost. Now, dear friends, our legislation has become so widespread that many institutions are given unnecessary exceptions to many laws. So it seems that the AKP government considers itself free from error and crime and intervenes in the judiciary. And the institutions that see this are trying to separate themselves from any legal assignment. For one thing, this attitude is a situation that hurts justice, rights, law. So no matter what reason he brings in, it's impossible to see these exceptions and exemptions from the Social Security Agency correctly. Now, the institutions will follow the rules first. A country is governed by rules and institutions. If you break the rules, you get privileged, privileged institutions, then the result is to crush the citizen. So there's a defendant, there's a plaintiff, there's a defendant who's going to be able to argue with this arrangement, especially about justice. If you make one of the defendants or plaintiffs privileged, exempt from some tuitions or payments, if a citizen has to pay, there will be no rights, no law, no justice. I especially want to remind you of the 36th article of the Constitution. The right-seeking freedom is organised by Article 36. ▪ Everyone has the right to a fair trial in front of the judicial authorities as a prosecutor or a defendant by using legitimate means and means. • This is also a violation of the Constitution's ruling. Now, you're bringing in tax exceptions. What you've been doing for 12 years is bringing exceptions to the Public Contraction Act. He's turned into a kevgire, a law that doesn't really exist, and it's entitled to public financial management and control law number 5018. It's not to be obeyed, it's to be obeyed. And yet here the Social Security Agency is exempted from making guarantees in all cases and procedures. I mean, the citizens are gonna put him down, the lawyers are gonna put him down, but this Social Security Agency is gonna be privileged, and he's not gonna put him to bed. First legal advisor, legal advisor and staffed lawyers, who are authorized to represent the Social Security Agency as a representative, are required not to use power of attorney or power of attorney, and therefore not to post a stamp on the power of attorney. Why? By not using stamps, we face a Social Security institution that does not contribute to the Social Welfare and Solidarity Fund. Because there's a cut from these stamps to social support funds.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0323par0075	Bar stamp...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0324par0076	Bar stamp, bar stamp...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0325par0077	It's a bar stamp.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0326par0078	I don't understand what you're saying, Mr. Recep. Come and explain from the stand. That's not how you talk.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0325par0079	We fixed it, fixed it, briefed it.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0326par0080	It also violates the principle of equal service from the Fund. So we think it would be more appropriate for this text to be removed from the bill, and I pay all of you respect.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0327par0083	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the 639 Sequential Work Act and the draft of the Law on Some Laws and Budget Commissions, Ankara MP İzzet Çetin and 13 MPs; Adana MP Turgay Develi; İzmir MP Musa Çam's Law Proposals of Laws and Plans and Budget Commission Report 41. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Ramadan Kerim Özkan (Burdur) and his friends MADDE has been changed in the following way, along with Article 36 of Law 41-5502. MADDE 36-The Agency is free of taxes, tax, tax, allowances, property tax, which were issued on 2/7/1964 due to the operations carried out under this Law, including electricity and gas consumption tax and fire insurance tax, 26/5/1981, and any amount of capital deposits and any kind of transactions, due to the amount of grants it will have, due to the amount of documents it will have, due to the imports it has, due to the removal of property tax, due to which it has been purchased and sold due to non-results. In any case the institution is a party to, the actual payment of power of attorney against the institution will be paid within thirty days of the application date of the bank account number, which will be issued on the basis of the payment of the fee and the charge of custody, the debtor or the deputy to the institution, as well as on the application and documents. Before that time, there will be no way to resort to acts of charity against the institution. If no payment is made during the specified period, the general provisions office will be collected. If the amount in the court's decisions is paid before the decision is finalised, the amount paid by the relevant authorities will be collected from the relevant authorities, along with the legal interest that will be processed from the date of payment. As a representative of the institution, I. A list of legal advisors, legal advisors and staffed attorneys will be handed down in writing or in the Office of Justice, as well as to the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office in the electronic environment, as well as to the chair of the district court, the military prosecutors and the Supreme Court of Justice. These lists are sent by the Chief Prosecutor of the Republic to courts around the judiciary, which are around the administrative judiciary, led by the district administration court. The names of those who will use the power of representation in court hearings in the high courts and district court court are reported to the chief prosecutors or presidents of the relevant courts. Those whose names are on the list can follow all kinds of lawsuits and executions as an institutional deputy. The names of those who have expired as a representative are reported to the authorities in the same manner. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0328par0095	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0327par0096	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0329par0097	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0327par0098	Vahap chooses to make a statement on the motion, MP of Mersin. Here you go, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0330par0101	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Really, especially Mr. Secretary, these bags are the most important issues of the law. Of course, it's the same arrangements that society has been waiting for, but the agenda is different outside, outside the General Assembly. We're going to a presidential election. First of all, it's the most important agenda as a domestic agenda. In other democracies, especially the presidents, the presidents, the parliaments in the regimes elected by the people, I don't know if they're working at least 15 days before the election, 20 days before the election. Is there an example of this? Of course, now that the Prime Minister's salt is dry, he's in good shape, God give him more, but on the other hand, he's using the power of state. Governors, trustees, everybody's working for themselves. If you'll excuse me, I mean, if we go and mingle with the public, there's a candidate we support, the situation of Turkey, the location.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0331par0104	Let's vote tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0332par0105	There's more of us than of you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0330par0106	Look, we made a mistake in making arrangements for the presidential election, but it's... of course, everything's not about the law, it's about regulations, it's about traditions, it's about ethics. If I were the Prime Minister, my friend, I am the Prime Minister of this country, I am now a candidate for the presidency, I want to fight my other friends in equal conditions, in equal competition; that is right, that is right, that is justice. I would say and resign. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, now, of course, he does rallying with public means, with government planes. Today at Hatay, it roared again, and I was very sad. Now, if I were to tell you, look, empathize, be honest: the AKP mentality is filth. How would you feel? Look, today, his mindset is scum. I feel terrible, but I'm not returning that promise to him because I respect his position, Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. Now, the mindset he calls a mess is the candidate for president of the republic where the political institution founded the republic, the republic where it established its institutions in the battlefields; here, it's a paradoxical situation. I know at your party, there are some very important people we really appreciate politically, historical, political memories, so they can sit down with the Prime Minister and talk to him, let him stop this language of violence, Prime Minister. Now, he's doing it in the country, and he can afford his own people. Here with law enforcement, the Deputy Director of the People's Democratic Party, has just told us about the position of police in the east, southeast, and law enforcement against the public.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0333par0111	Ask Kılıçdaroğlu, Kılıçdaroğlu..
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0330par0112	On the other hand, it creates serious weakness in foreign relations, and it screams there, and it uses the language of violence there, but there's something about the Prime Minister...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0333par0113	He won't let go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0330par0114	...it roars beautifully, but it doesn't rain; it's always screaming, it's always calling. Now, look, a friend called me today. This friend of ours is a Jewish Turkish citizen. He really said: "I strongly object to these practices of Israel, my friend, my brother, but I am an essential part of this country, a Turkish citizen, but my religion is Jewish." I'm also doing my civic duties, but there's been a very violent campaign against us on social media. It is one thing to condemn Israel's policies in the Middle East, to criticize it, to cast a seed of hatred against people, regardless of their race, is another thing, it is a hate crime.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0333par0116	We're saying the same thing, don't mix it up.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0330par0117	I don't blame you, just listen. Therefore, we politicians will hear what comes out of our mouths. Blowing and puffing like that, holding... Look, now, in this Davos, there's a minute. They got in the mood there, with the Blue Marmara, and he said, "I'm going to take the freeze, and I'm going to take the ships of help, and there's nothing. And then what happened? Chronologically, let's see...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0334par0120	Take a look!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0330par0121	He said, "I will go to Gaza." Look, it's been a year and a half since -- they've been screaming all the time -- that's not what happened, and now, in recent developments, Israel will be drowned in blood.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0335par0123	I hope he chokes.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0336par0124	He will go to the Masjid al-Aqsa, the Masjid al-Aqsa.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0330par0125	Let's give up this language of violence.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0337par0126	Are you defending baby killers?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0330par0127	Peace is needed in Turkey, peace is needed in the Middle East, peace is needed in the world.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0338par0129	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0339par0131	He can't go to Gaza, so he goes to give gas.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0340par0132	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0338par0133	But if you say it a little louder, Mr. Young, we may not hear it.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0340par0134	He hears the ear and doesn't come to his account.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0338par0135	I can't hear you, sir. I can't hear you. You're going to say it in a way that everyone can see, and you're going to say it in a way that they can hear, and you're going to raise your hand.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0340par0136	He's always been biased.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0338par0137	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... all those in favor... Since it's incompatible, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you a minute, [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 42, two of which are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Sumer Oral Mehmet Şandir Cemaletdin Lightning "Education, Research Development Co-ordination Centre" has been added to the head of the section "Helping Service Units" of Cetve 42 (I). The two motions I'm going to make now are the same. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 42 (I) be removed from the draft text, which envisions a change in the Court of Law No. 5502 (I) of the current 639 Numbered Bill of Laws. Pervin Buldan Erol Dora İdris Bauken Vahaap Picks Ali Serindağ Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Ramadan Kerim Özkan Rahmi - A Menager of Love Kamer Young Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0341par0166	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0338par0167	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0342par0168	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0338par0169	I'm reading the reason: It is not in accordance with the political principles that there are legal provisions in this draft text, which are announced to be issued for workers who have lost their lives in Soma. With change, this problem is intended to be resolved. Kamer Young, the Tunceli MP who wanted to make a statement on the same proposals. Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0343par0175	Mr. President, we would like to ask that the 42nd article of the Law Bill, 639 rows of discussion be removed from the text of the law, the bill and the proposal. The education, Research, Development Centre Presidency, which is brought in here, is appointed as the president and is given 92 staffs. In fact, of course, research development in modern, progressive, civilized countries is a very important factor, but there is no research, development, with the AKP in Turkey. (EC PARTY RINGS) What they're researching is they're trying to find a way to fill the pockets they've developed, and they're not doing anything else. Thus, the men they bring to these centers are people of their own mind. They don't bring men who serve science, knowledge and technology. So, you see, finding a staff for your own followers... Now, you see, dear lawmakers, you have to have honesty at heart, you have to have integrity, you have to have decency, you have to have decency, and when that happens, the government doesn't lay hands on property, and when that doesn't happen, it doesn't use government resources for its own benefit; and when that doesn't happen, it also lays hands on government property, it uses its resources, and it has no sense of shame.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0344par0177	Look at you, look at you. Look in the mirror, in the mirror.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0343par0178	Now, dear friends, in every civilized country in the world, if an election has begun, with the start of the election calendar, parliaments don't work in that country because parliaments are at the center of politics. Why?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0344par0179	Look in the mirror, in the mirror.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0343par0180	Now, there's a presidential election. Now, when you took out President Selection Law 6721, you said: "Legends don't help candidates." Well, Erdoğan went to Hatay today; the governor is escorting him on the state plane, and then two ministers are accompanying him.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0345par0181	Election bans haven't started, that's the last ten days.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0343par0182	It's completely abuse, it's a questionable choice to use this completely state property to promote election propaganda.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0346par0183	Get out of here! You describe morality?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0347par0184	Look at you, look at you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0343par0185	If Recep Tayyip Erdogan wins the election using these opportunities, it's a questionable gain, so we don't know him. Look, they've appointed a president to the Supreme Election Board. Do you know who the President of this High Election Board is? They brought him in when he was a judge in one place. They appointed a judge in Ankara. They made Deputy Minister of Justice for two years. They brought him in from there.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0348par0187	You're a victim of imam-hater high school graduates.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0343par0188	On the day that he was appointed from the Supreme Election Board, they immediately brought him to the presidency, and he said... they chose me... the government, of course, who you've already appointed... look, friends, there are members there who have been working on the Election Board for a long time, but they've appointed this one. Who'd they appoint?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0349par0189	Were you a law school graduate and a judge? Where did you graduate from?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0343par0190	So, now it's so clear and clear, it's fun...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0350par0191	Isn't he the son of this country? What's with the imam-hatred hostility?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0351par0192	How did you do it?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0352par0193	How'd you get into the D.A.?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0353par0194	Hey, guys, look, there's no ruling in the President's Choice Act that the Prime Minister will resign, and there's no ruling that the ministers won't. E, well, in its relevant article, it says: "They can't get help from people who are fair." Now, Recep Tayyip Erdogan violates the President's Choice Act every day, gets help from the state, helps with the state's corporate personality; therefore his membership, the presidential membership is questionable.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0354par0195	Don't you know election bans are the last ten days? Find out and come back.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0353par0196	I petitioned the High Election Board on this, and he needs to drop it. If he doesn't drop it...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0354par0197	The election bans are the last ten days, so find out.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0355par0198	If you were running.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0353par0199	You've already brought your own man there, he's...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0354par0200	Election bans are the last ten days.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0353par0201	Now, look, you have no right, no sense of justice. You are sworn by the Constitution, and you are not faithful to the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0356par0202	Look in the mirror, in the mirror.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0353par0203	You've brought the law, you've brought these laws, you've plundered the property of the state, you've brought it with the law so you can get away with it, you've got a motive. They don't feed them to you, they'll bring them to you one day. Look, I've been on these podiums for over thirty years.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0357par0204	Shame on you! Shame on Tunceli, he's carried you here for thirty years!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0356par0205	You haven't learned anything in 30 years.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0353par0206	Don't look, now that you've got the judgment and everything, tomorrow, these fingers that try to legitimize these thefts, these corruptions, they're gonna break, they're gonna be put in places.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0357par0208	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0358par0209	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0353par0210	Just so you know, it's never gonna do you any good. So no matter how many fingers you try to legitimize the wealth you've acquired in such illegitimate ways, those fingers won't be enough. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The presidential election has also become illegitimate, questionable. Even if Erdoğan was elected President, we can't accept him, we can't recognize him; everyone needs to know that. Every day he's using government resources, using government property, and campaigning for elections. It'll come from your nose, your nose. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0359par0215	Thank you. I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Mr. President-Madams, there are enough decisions, the motions have been rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends "Education, Research Development Co-ordination Centre" has been added to the head of the section "Helping Service Units" of Cetve 42-5502." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0360par0228	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0359par0229	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0361par0230	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0359par0231	You have asked for a word on the motion, Lightning, Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0362par0234	Mr. President, I've been promised a amendment proposal for the Article 42 of the Law on the Amendment to the Amendment in Article 639, and to the amendment of some Laws and Laws. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. First of all, Mr. Hajji, Tülay Hajji will say that there was an earthquake today in Bafra headquarters in Samsun.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0363par0236	Actually, it's in the 3rd degree earthquake belt.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0362par0237	But no loss of life or property, thank God, let me express it. I'm also saying that yesterday was an accident. There was no attack on the Ataturk bust, Mr. Hajji.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0363par0238	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0362par0239	Dear lawmakers, what is meant to be done now, with this 42nd article, is a provision that envisions the establishment of the head of research and development of the auxiliary service units in the SGK. We wanted it to be renamed the research development and coordination center. As a matter of fact, it's been a coordination center or something like that, which doesn't matter, but what's important is that we're talking about a law that's been occupied by lawmakers and ministers until this hour of the night. But when we look at it, in this law that we spend so much time and time on, does the stone that we throw away really touch the frog we're scaring away? It's not worth it, dear friends.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0364par0240	It's worth it, Hajji. It's worth it.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0362par0241	I mean, it's really not worth it. Why? Now, my hand, which happened in Soma, by accident, came to the agenda of this law, but it's really going to satisfy them -- Mr. Minister -- there's no substance here. The other, intertwined substances are also a matter for certain groups, for certain interests. So, of course, let's spend our overtime, so that's our job, to serve our citizens, to make the law in their favor here, but, when we look at it, if these laws are so valid, I've said in my speech a little while ago that the laws from 1924 have been passed, and the laws from 1950 are still valid, and we've been renegotiating the laws that we passed just two months and three months ago. Either the court is stopping the law or it's being cancelled by the Constitutional Court. Don't you think there's something wrong with this place? When are we going to realize that we've brought up these laws without arguing enough, without sharing them with the opposition, without consulting their social side? So, without realizing it, we have a majority of these laws here. It wouldn't be in the public interest of my dear friends to bring them here and lift their fingers. And it can never go on like this. Best of all, I propose that since these laws are these: let's make a law here, and let's assume that everything that comes out of the Prime Minister's mouth is the law, and the violation of the Constitution and the violation of international contracts is invalid. I'm just saying, let's make this work and let's make it work for the Prime Minister, and let's not waste our time here. Dear friends, because we realize that the execution of this... every word that comes out of the Prime Minister's mouth, everything that comes out here, comes out of the law, we see it, we see it. As opposition, of course, we're following something, more or less. But the public's demands, the laws, which are mostly for the benefit of the public, unfortunately, are not brought up by such extensive work. On the other hand, as we have just stated, many of these laws are either being annulled by the administrative court or by the Constitutional Court. For him, this amendment motion we've made, it doesn't really matter. Well, it's all right, it's all right, but the main thing is that the law we're talking about here is that it's much more important that there's a broader meaning and meaning to tomorrow, and I salute you all at this hour of the night.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0365par0245	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... 4-Current of Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; Ankara MP Izzet Çetin; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party Deputy MP Oktay Köçal; İstanbul MP Sena Kallıtı's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Balukı; İstanbul MP İzken's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Çeçı; Ankara MP İzket Balukı's Party's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Democratic Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP İdıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK) and İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK). Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party of Konya Mustafa Kalaycı and Milliyet Movement Group MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetlı Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law's Decisions, Oktay Ökalalalalalalalı's Party's Party; Heromarash MP Mesut Akçayoğlu's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; Mustafa Kalakcı's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of Law and its Parliament's Law's Law's Law's Law; Mehmet's Law's Law's Law's Law's Law's Minister's Law; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Office; Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party of Konya Mustafa Kalaycı and Milliyet Movement Group Deputy Chair Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Saddir Durmaz and Millılı Movement Party Party Party Party Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law's Law's Decisions, Oktay Ökalalal; Heromarash MP Mesut Akçayoğlu's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Democratic Party's Party's Party's Democratic Party for Law and the Parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Law and its Law's Law.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0366par0249	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0365par0250	There's a roll call. We'll do it. Mr. Tüleli, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Öner, Mr. Altay, Mr. Altay, Mr. Young, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Çayoğlu, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Özgük, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Süncüt, Mr. Özgen, Mr. Özgündün, Mr. Tanal. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. Number: 639) [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions on Article 43: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the clause "e.9th clause" under the framework 43 of the current Law Bill 639, shall be changed into "the second joke of Article 9." Mustafa Elitaş Ramadan Can Recep Special Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman your love Look Osman Boyraz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the 639 Sequential Bill of Law, dated 31/5/2006, be changed to "one day and more" in Article 43 of Article 6 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Law. Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Mehmet Şandir Sumer Oral Adnan Şişek Güçük Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 639 Numbered Business Act and the 43rd Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. We propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Ramadan Kerim Özkan of Rahmi Love İzmir Burdur Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Ali Serindağ Vahab elects MADDE 43- The term "exclusion of Article 6 of Article 6 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act No. 31/5/2006" (except for Article 6 (except for "received and permanently employed) " (e) has been changed in the same manner as those insured under Article 9 of the Law under the same person and for 10 days and more hours per month). "e) International social security agreements are kept under wraps; on behalf of any institution established in a foreign country and on behalf of that institution and on account of those who have been sent to Turkey for two months, and those who have been granted social insurance in the foreign country and those who have been independent of their own name and account, and those who have been living abroad, and those who have followed social security legislation in Turkey," he said. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0367par0290	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0365par0291	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0368par0292	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0365par0293	Ali Serindağ, MP of Gaziantep, has asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0369par0296	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I give you all my deepest regards and wish you good morning, because it's morning now. Now, I'm not going to say too much, I'm going to mention one or two things. Dear lawmakers, you're reacting to everything, so please don't react to the right words. Now, you've reacted to Mr. Vahab Elector. I'm asking you: Now, he chooses the President of the Republic of Turkey, and in 20 days there will be an election. Will the House of a country that elects the President in 20 days work until morning?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0370par0301	He works even in battle.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0369par0302	Of course, now, look, he said something very nice, appropriate; Mr. Yilmaz Bronzec says that he works even in war. My dear friends, we don't fight, we choose the President. I mean, don't polarize people like that. We're not fighting a war, we're electing a president. So don't react to everything or to the right word. Well, if that's the case, bring it in, let's get this law straight. Why bring it in as the basic law? If we're going to work till morning, if this Congress has worked in the war, bring it to me. Why are you making the basic law? Is that in accordance with the standard of basic law? Look, I was going to talk calmly, and you led me to reactive speech. My dear friends, don't react to everything. What did Mr Vahap say? He said: "We condemn the inhuman attack of Israel, of course, but why do you react to the actions that would cause our Jewish citizens, who live in our country and who are citizens of the Republic of Turkey, to worry, to fear?"
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0371par0306	We didn't say anything.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0369par0307	Then you react to every word. And when you react to every word, of course, there's a reaction. See, dear friends, very important things are happening in Turkey. Something very important is happening right near Turkey. ISIS is now our neighbor. I was in Gaziantep last week, and I probably have friends here who are members of Gaziantep, and they'll probably share my concerns. Look, Gaziantep is restless, and there have been events for two or three days, and it has happened before in Maraş, and it has happened in Kahramanmarash, and in different cities of our country. Look, there's a need for everything. There are now 200,000 Syrians registered in Gaziantep; they are registered, I draw your attention, they are recorded, and there are so many unregistered. A city can't afford so many guests. And what guest?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0372par0310	Should they go to Gaza or what?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0369par0311	Mr. Bulent, just a minute. What guest? Unidentified, unspecified, unspecified, unspecified, unsupervised, drinking, eating. My dear friends, let's focus on these important matters. You're reacting to everything. Now, while I'm saying this, there's a member of parliament who has never seen Gaziantep, sir, who hasn't been interested in Gaziantep, who is reacting. So, what's the cause of this reaction?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0373par0315	Send him to war?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0369par0316	What's the cause of this reaction? Why are you reacting?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0374par0317	What do you do when someone comes to your door, what do you do when they come to your door?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0369par0318	What are you advertising? Now, look, there's some cast shooters, but my advice to you is don't talk about things you don't know because otherwise you'll be embarrassed.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0374par0320	What are you gonna do to someone who comes to your door at night? Tell me what you're gonna do to a hungry person.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0369par0321	Otherwise, you'll be embarrassed.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0374par0322	No, what are you gonna do to a hungry person? What are you going to do when you come to the door at night?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0369par0323	Dear friends, if so, let us now come to the talk at Hatay.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0374par0324	You sent someone back to your door at night?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0369par0325	Do you approve of the speech in Hatay, the speech made by the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0375par0326	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0376par0327	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0369par0328	If you do, it is for the owner of the blame. Mr. Vahab Seferer was very kind and kindly said: I can't return it, because I respect his office. If you say so, we return it for whatever reason is said. Yes, I pay my respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0377par0332	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Parliamentary Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Minister of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Minister of the Minister of Ministers and the Minister of Ministers and the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament and the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament and the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament and the Council of the Minister of the Parliament and the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Ministers and the Minister of the Ministers and the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Manisa MP Mustafa Kalaycı and MP of the National Movement Party Oktay Ökalal; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party Party Party (Secreecution Party) Minister İzkım İzkın İzlı İzlı İzlı İzlı İzlı İzlı İzlı İzlımı İzlı İzlı İztay Ökalalalalalalı; Şeşıkılıı MP İzılı MP İzlı Akçıılı, Akçılıılı MP İçılı, Akçılıılıılıılı MPısılı Akçı MPııııılıılııııılı Beyı MPı MPı Akçı MPılıılıılıılııılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılı, Akı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPılııılıılıılıılıılıılııııııııılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılııııılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıııılıılıııııııııılıılıılııııııııııılıılılılılıılıılıılılılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılılılıılıılı MPılıılılılılıılıılıılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılıılıılılılılıılılılılılıılıılıılı MPılıılılılılılılılılılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılılılılıılıılılılılılılılılılıılılı Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party of Konya Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law's Decisions, Oktay Ökki's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and İzmir MP Oktay Öçalalalı; Heromarash MP Mesut Akçayoğlu's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Party's Party; Mehmet Milliş's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister and the Minister's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Party's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Laws; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Democratic Party (HDP) Minister's Democratic Party (HDP) Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party, and Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party of Konya Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law's Decisions, Oktay Ökki's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and İzmir MP Oktay Öçalalalı; Heromarash MP Mesut Akçayoğlu's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Party's Party; Mehmet Milliş's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister and the Minister's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Party's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Of the current 639 Sequential Business Act and of the Vice President of the National Party of Law and of the Minister of Law, Oktay Ökal Çakı; of the Manisa MP Mustafa Kalaycı and the MP of the National Movement Party, Oktay Kıkal; of Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and the MP of the National Movement Party, Oktay Öktay Çakıoğlu; of the President's Party of the Parliament; of the President of the Minister of the Parliament and the Minister of the Parliament; of the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament and the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament; of the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament and the Minister of the Parliament; of the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament and the Minister of the Parliament; of the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament; of the Minister of the Parliament and the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament of the Parliament, Mesikıçeçeçeçeçeçeçeçı, and the Party of the Parliament; of the Party of the Party of the Party of the Party of the Parliament; of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of Parliament; of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Party of Parliament; of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament; of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of State of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Parliament; of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Democratic Party (ÇT/TK) and Minister's Party's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Ökalaloğlu; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Milliş's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sParty ;Minister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sParty ;Minister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister's Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's party Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party for Law and Law's Law on Laws; İstanbul MP Oktay Çaklı's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Democratic Party's Party's Party's Party's Democratic Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Democratic Party's Party's Party's Democratic Party (HDP) Party's Democratic Party's Party's Minister for Law and the Minister's Minister's Parliament's Parliament's Parliament's Parliamentary Party's Minister for Law, Oktay Öçı Öçı İçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı, and the Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers (HDP's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister of Ministers's Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party of Konya Mustafa Kalaycı and Milliyet Movement Group MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetlı Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law's Decisions, Oktay Ökalalalal; Heromarash MP Mesut Akçay's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Party; Mustafa Kalajcı and Köklı's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Democratic Party's Party; Mehmet and the Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of Law; Mehmet- Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's; Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı and MHP Group MP Oktay Ökalal; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and MHP Group MP Izmir İzkı MP Oktay Kökal; Mehmet Mektay Sakalalalı's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister and Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister and Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister and Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's deputy's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister' Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's The Parliamentary Minister Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalalal; President Sadir Durmaz and Minister of the National Movement Party's Party's Party for Laws and Laws; President of the Parliament's Party's Party's Democratic Party (HDP) and Minister's Party's Party's Party's Democratic Party (HDP) Party (HDP) Minister's Democratic Party (HDP) Party (HDP) Minister's Party (HDP) Minister's Party's Party; Minister's Party's Party's Party of Ministers's Party of Ministers and Minister's Party's Party of Ministers's Party's Party's Party (HDP). Manisa MP Mustafa Kalaycı and MHP Group MP Oktay Ökal; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Izklı İzkılı İzkılı MP Okaklı; İstanbul MP's Party's Party of Ministers and MP's Minister's Party of Ministers and Minister's Party of Ministers and Minister's Minister's Minister's Party of Ministers, Oktay Serkalı Akçı, and Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Mıkıkıkı Akçıkıkı and Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; and Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sParty ;Mehmet 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sParty ;Minister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sMinister 'sParty Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu's; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Dikal's; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP İzket Çetin's Party's Minister's Party for Business; İstanbul MP's Democratic Party (HDP) Minister and MP's Party for Human Rights; Ankara MP's Party for Foreign Affairs; İstanbul's Minister's Democratic Party (HDP) and İstanbul MP's Minister's Democratic Party (TK) and İstanbul's Minister's Party for Turkish Affairs; Mehmet Çağalıtı İçı; İstanbul's Party's MP's MP (TK) and İstanbul's Minister's Party for İstanbul (TK) İstanbul (TK) and İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party of Parliament's Party of İstanbul (TK) Çağrı İçıçıçıçıçıçı İçıçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul's Party; İstanbul's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's MP's MP's MP's Party and İstanbul MP's Party's Party's MP's MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul's Party; İstanbul's Party of İstanbul's MP's Party (TK MP's Party of İstanbul's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party of Parliament's Party; Ankara's Party's Minister's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul's MP's Minister's MP's MP's MP's Minister's Party of Parliament's Party; İstanbul's MP's MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Party;
tbmm-2014-07-20sit02spe0144par0022	Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Democratic Party's Party of Ministers and İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party of Ministers and İstanbul's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul MP's Party of Parliament and İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Democratic Party; Mehmet Çağeşeşal; İstanbul's Party's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul's Party's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Democratic Party; İstanbul Çağıpıpıpıpı; İstanbul's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's MP's Party's MP's MP's MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's Party's MP's Party; İstanbul MP's MP's MP's MP's Minister's Minister's MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Minister's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Minister's MP's Minister's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's MP's MP's Minister's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Minister's MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's MP's MP's MP's MP's Minister of Parliament; Çağı İçı İçııı İçııııı İçı İçııı İçıııııı İçıçıçıı [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Burdur MP Bayram Özçelik]] Of İstanbul MP Durmusali Torlak and Milliyetian Movement Party Group Deputy Chair Mehmet Şandir; Mersin MP Ali Öz and Milliyetian Movement Party Group Group Deputy Chair Mehmet Şandir; Kastamı MP Mehmet Şandır MP Mehmet Şandir; Osmaniye MP Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu and Milliyetist Movement Party Group Deputy Minister Mersin MP Mehmet Şandir; Kastamun MP Emin Çınar Çınar and Milliyetçi Movement Party MP Oktay Ökkal; Kastamın MP Mehmet Şandir; Osmaniye MP Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu, and 268 MP of the Party of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament, 225/1254/125/14/1.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0377par0337	Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0378par0339	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0377par0340	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0379par0341	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0377par0342	It's Sefik Ugly, Hatay MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ugly.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0380par0345	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute you all with respect, love, respect. In a little while, may God accept our understanding in the House, perhaps thanks to you. Congressmans, as the National Movement Party, we support this clause, to the right, to the curve, to the curve, and we stand behind this clause. So rather than that, we would like to bring up some of the issues here, some of the issues of our citizens. We've just been looking for our fellow farmers from Hatay, our fellow farmers in my profession: What are you doing there? We're making a law. Well, is there anything you want us to do? What do you want? We want to restructure the agricultural irrigation loans. The Hatay farmer asks from there, asking from many parts of Turkey. With the heavy burden of the farmer, they have a demand at a point when it is necessary to restructure loan debt related to agricultural irrigation. Of course, we call it no. Because we've proposed it over and over again, the ruling MPs, or rather the ruling party, the Justice and Development Party, rejected it. So, members of lawmakers, in Turkey right now, where there is a so-called peace process, which, in our view, is likely to end very badly, where you use it as an election material, in other words, we insist on making peace with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK): Why is the farmer not reconciled? I mean, why isn't the farmer making peace with the farmer when there's a tax pardon for a lot of businessmen with this bag of legislation brought in? So, the other man took the gun in his hand, even pointed it at the nation, pointed it at us, pointed it at us, delivered the cities, cut off the roads, opened the roads. He says, he opens it himself, puts a flag on our stations, calls the commander of the place, asks the HDP people to bring it down. Look at the state we're in. We sit with this, we deal with it, but we don't sit down with our farmer looking for a chance to make peace. This is persecution for the farmer. Now, on this occasion, I would like to say to the farmers who have called us from there, that when the day comes, you may do the same. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, while we're at it, I'd like to say a few words about the situation of the Syrians. The Syrians who are refugees in our country... look, Mr. Prime Minister says that we need to be an asset every chance we get, that we have to be an asset, and that these are our guests. Yes, that's right, all of the Syrians are our guests; victims, needy people, God help them, they're not easy, but what our government does is that you look at a certain number of Syrians in camps, you entertain them in camps. Just a moment ago, when you call me a guest by the testimony of our esteemed Congressman, Erkan Akçay Bey, you end the hospitality. What do they eat, what do they drink, where do they live? Doesn't the government know about this? We have a minister here. His women go to prostitution, he struggles, his children beg. Is this all over when you get here?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0381par0351	Please, it's rude.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0380par0352	What's the matter, sir?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0381par0353	It's a shame to call a guest like that.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0380par0354	They're being forced to.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0381par0355	That's no way to talk about it.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0380par0356	What's the word, sir?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0381par0357	Would you call the guest that?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0380par0358	What's the word, sir?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0381par0359	You can't say that.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0380par0360	We're not telling the guest. You're the one who put the guest in this position. It's not rude. It's a shame to put a guest in this position.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0382par0361	You should be ashamed!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0380par0362	What's wrong with that? We're talking about what happened in Turkey. We don't blame the guest, we blame the government here. Shame, shame, shame on you! It's a shame to force 1 million Syrians into prostitution, not to talk about it.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0383par0364	That's for you! That's for you!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0382par0365	You leave him hungry, you leave him miserable. It's shameless and...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0384par0366	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0385par0367	Mr. Kaçir, please...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0386par0368	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0387par0369	Of course it's a lie.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0386par0370	Either you come and testify that we're lying on this stand. Is that a lie?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0388par0372	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0389par0373	Shame on you. Aren't you ashamed?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0386par0374	So it goes to your power? We're telling the truth. It's in the papers, everyone's writing it, but you're covering your ears. It is not shameful to condemn them to prostitution, but to uphold their rights. Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0390par0376	Come on, get out of here!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0391par0377	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the 639 Sequential Bill of Law, dated 31/5/2006, be replaced by the "ten days and more," "one day and more," in Article 43, which envisions the amendment to Article 6 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act No. 5510. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0392par0384	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0391par0385	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0393par0386	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0391par0387	I'm reading the reason: It is a matter of public justice that women who work less than 10 days in household chores are not considered insured. It is intended for all women to benefit from social security services without a time limit of change. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the clause "e.9th clause" under the framework 43 of the current Law Bill 639, shall be changed into "the second joke of Article 9." Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0394par0396	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0391par0397	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0395par0398	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0391par0399	I'm reading the reason: A technical arrangement is made in matter. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0396par0404	Mr. President, if I may, in person...
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0391par0405	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0396par0408	Thank you, Mr. President. In his speech on the stand, Kamer Young has just insulted the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Kamer Young, in his speech, I apologize to the House: don't look, now you've got the judgment and all that. Tomorrow, these fingers, which try to justify these thefts, corruption, will be broken, and one side will be put in places.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0397par0411	That's for you!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0396par0412	No one with a bit of decency, a little bit of decency, a little bit of dignity, no one with a little bit of dignity, no one with a little bit of humanity, can make a speech like that in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but if it has no dignity, if it has no personality, without decency, without decency, it can say anything, it can do anything.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0398par0413	How do you allow it? Why are you making me say this?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0399par0414	You're telling me, shameless man!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0396par0415	This is an insult to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0398par0416	You're shameless!
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0399par0417	Speech! Watch where you're going.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0396par0418	No one with human qualifications can make such a speech in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0399par0419	What do you mean?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0400par0420	What's it to you?
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0396par0421	But if you're saying that the speaker has no honor, morality, or literature. If you're saying, "No, there's no, there's no. He can have this conversation." If you're saying that, then I'm not saying anything.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0401par0422	And the clappers are guilty.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0396par0423	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit09spe0402par0425	Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-20sit10spe0402par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the tenth session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 639 from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with Human Rights Review Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which are part of the 5th agenda, in accordance with the Convention Against the Rights of the disabled. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Members of parliament, since it is clear that the Commission will not be able to be found after this, it is as follows, on Monday (July 21st 2014) at 14 p.m. to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
