tbmm-2014-10-02sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 2nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, dear employees and fellow press workers of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you at the beginning of the year of the 24th term fifth legislature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It's been a long period of time, with a busy agenda, and a lot of important work that we've all been working on in common. Our General Assembly, which ended on 10 September 2014, took a brief recess today to resume its work. I wish our new year of work would be productive in terms of our legislation and control activities. I sincerely believe that the way we're going to adopt will be based on the basis of mutual tolerance and respect, within the framework of democratic understanding and rules. Congressmans, as of today, there is a human drama created by terrorism. The pictures we've seen, the news we've received, it hurts us, our heart is tight. Turkey, our country, can't be expected to stand by and watch this human drama. Because Turkey, regardless of its belief, ethnic identity, whatever its opinion, always has an obligation and responsibility to be with the victim and the underdog. My belief is that no one in the Veteran Assembly can ever be on the side of terror. Everything must be at peace, everything must be fulfilled by the laws of brotherhood, and with the same heart, it must be opposed to terror. Ladies and gentlemen, I respectfully honor all of our presidents, including the first President of our Parliament, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and salute the state and political men who served in our parliament, and cherish all of our older brothers, Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu, and wish the Fifth Year of the Act of our great Parliament to be a blessing and good luck to our country, our nation and all of our MPs. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first off-the-book statement belongs to Adana MP Ali Halaman, who wants to talk about Adana's problems. Here you are, Mr. Halaman. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Ali Halaman is the first speaker of our last year of life. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit01spe0002par0019	Mr. President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit01spe0001par0021	Congressmans, I'd like some silence, please.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit01spe0002par0022	I have been promised to bring up the problems of Adana and its districts. First, I'd like to thank the President who promised to greet you all, our nation with respect and love. Again, I offer my condolences to the grieving family as they seek mercy from our friend, Recai Yıldırım, who left us for the weekend, who served as a two-term MP in Adana, and who has been brought to justice by our friend Recai Yıldırım. Now, Adana is the best, most valuable, most popular, industrial, agriculturally high in this country, but lately, especially because of recent developments in government policy, and because of recent developments, it's as if Adana had been invaded from outside, as if there were many problems where there were poor people, problems where there were many problems, and there were problems in the mosques, in the streets, in the streets, in traffic, and in the streets, and in traffic, people who said, "Doesn't it help me?" So there are a lot of economic and social issues about Adana, which we sometimes bring up here about the counties, where we make a question proposal, where we offer law, but we haven't been able to execute one by the government. I'll give you an example: there's Kozan district of Adana, 55 kilometers between. We made a new road. It was said. We haven't been able to get a lighting or a intersection in three years, although there's been a lot of extraordinary accidents. Again, by setting up a HES in front of what we call the agricultural irrigation of Kozan. Although that dam is an agricultural irrigation dam, it is building a small HES for electricity production. Who's setting it up? People standing in front of you, standing next to the current politics. Winter is rainy, streams flow, but because the dam's water has never been cut, the agricultural dam is destroyed, and in Adana land, no one -- no one -- allows to plant the second crop. So the second product, because there's no produce in vegetables, there's no fruit in age, so maybe if you go to grocery stores in your area, if you go to grocery stores, the tomato weighs $3 a pound; the age fruit, the price of vegetables. Reason: because of the lack of production, climate conditions, drought... we may have more words to say, but because of the withdrawal of agriculture in Turkey. Therefore, even though the drinking water in their villages is dry, a man is forced to carry water and to meet the needs of the people, an Adana is occupied by the Syrians as if it were a city. If you can't help these people, if you can't create their physical conditions, what's the point of telling the Adanan who lives in it that other people will come here? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I want this government to give up these policies, to bring a serious, rational, rational economic model with modern understanding, with respect to all of you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit01spe0003par0029	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a noise in the hum, and it's disrespectful to the speaker, and it's disrespectful to the audience, so please don't make me repeat this warning. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Mr. Refik Eryılmaz, a member of the Hatay MP who asked for a statement regarding border security. Here you are, Mr. Eryilmaz.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit01spe0004par0035	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment regarding the security issue at our borders. I salute the High Council. In a moment, we will vote on a thesis that includes sending troops to Syria and Iraq under the name of fighting against terrorist groups. First of all, I'd like to say that the acceptance of this thesis and that if our troops are sent to Syria or Iraq, they will make amends and take a path that is impossible to return to. Global forces aim to carry out the Turkish foot of the Great Middle East Project with this thesis. These forces, which want to stir and divide Turkey, are somehow trying to lure the Turkish army into the Middle East swamp. We would like to warn the government that Turkey could be subjected to some provocative actions along with the adoption of this thesis. Prime Minister Davutoglu has stated that the CHP will become a party supporting ISIS in the event it votes against the thesis. You know, there's a saying: if he were a Muslim who blasphemed my religion, we don't take Davutoglu's statement seriously at all, because it is today's AKP government that clearly supports all armed opposition groups in Syria, including ISIS, for three and a half years. Dear MPs, we consider the statement of Davutoglu to be an expression of weakness and exhaustion. In particular, the AKP government has tried to associate the Republican People's Party with the sins and wrongs of its wrong foreign policy over the past three and a half years. We will never be involved in these dirty policies, crimes and sins committed in Syria, Iraq. I'm going to overthrow the government's administration of Syria. We know very well that for three and a half years he's been fighting in Syria, including ISIS, he's provided all kinds of radical, fundamentalist, predecessor groups with logistic support including weapons, he's protected them, he's protected them, he's been treating injured militants in our conflict hospitals, he's hosting them in five-star hotels. With all this cooperation and solidarity now in sight, the government has declared that I will fight ISIS in Syria. Has anyone examined the court records on how missiles and bombs were sent to groups fighting in Syria on trucks stopped in Adana and Reyhan? Do you have any documents telling us that the government supports terrorist groups fighting or fighting in Syria? All of these documents are official. Go and read the statements of relevant parties, drivers and other witnesses in the indictment against trucks stopped in Reyhanlı and Adana. There, he's clearly entered the court records of the missiles being carried in these trucks. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, now, this has not just entered the court records. Governor of Hatay, there's a report from Celalettin Tasselsiz, which you're currently acting chief of police, sent to the Ministry of Interior. This report was released to the press, but so far neither our governor nor any government official has rejected it. This report made it clear how ISIS used our region and our country openly, how organized it was, which border it came from, which village it came from, and what a great threat it poses. When we said that, they declared us Baasci. But where we come from, I want to say that Turkey is facing a very serious threat of terrorism.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit01spe0005par0041	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Süzeyya Sadi Bilç, a member of the Isparta MP who asked for a comment due to the Fifth Year of Legislature. Here you go, wise guy.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit01spe0006par0046	Mr. President, highly valued MPs have taken an off-the-book commitment to the 24th Year of the Fifth Amendment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I salute your grand delegation. The Fifth Legislative Year wishes our country, our nation, our democracy, and us, good luck for the MPs, and a successful year of work.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit01spe0007par0048	Is there a law on bags?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit01spe0006par0049	Coming up now, you'll have to wait, Mr. Pine. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the symbol and representative of national will to this side from April 23, 1920, which was founded four years ago, is the unconditional nation of Ataturk, the Great Leader. It serves our country and our nation in accordance with the principle. This great House is the greatest guarantee of our democracy, which is deeply believed in the virtues of our beloved nation, and is subject to all kinds of internal and external interference, and further development. Our House is the only solution to all issues of our nation, our country, and our democracy. All the search and guardianship systems of the House and the national will have done nothing but carry our country into darkness. The search for solutions outside politics and Parliament for problems is disrespectful and unacceptable to the national will. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our country and nation's democratic lives need to be further strengthened, our freedom fields expanded, and our brotherhood law further strengthened. In the same way, it is a great role for our Parliament to increase the prosperity of our nation and strengthen our country's economic and political aspects. I hope our new civil constitution efforts will be terminated by the Grand Assembly as soon as possible and our country and nation will be rescued from the coup era Constitution. My dear friends, the responsibility and obligation to give direct accountability to our nation falls only to the political institution, our political parties and to us MPs within constitutional institutions. Knowing this responsibility, increasing the quality of legislation in order to provide immediate solutions to the problems ahead should be one of our most important responsibilities. For this, we must take mutual love, respect, kindness, and tolerance to the highest level during the Parliamentary work. In the same way, I'd like to share with you my belief that to raise the quality of the legislative process to higher levels, the Parliamentary Civil Code studies must be completed quickly. Mr. Pine, the law was here. With the new internal charter, I sincerely believe that tensions from time to time can also be minimised. Once again, I wish our country, our nation, and all of us and the members of the House that the year of the new legislature would be a blessing, and I salute your grand delegation, and I wish you peace and good work. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit01spe0008par0059	Thank you. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a promise to the members of the group who hacked into the system. Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit01spe0009par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs today are Diyarbakır 3. The Supreme Court has decided to halt the execution of the joint presidential application in Diyarbakır's 7 district municipalities. 3. Executive Court Çınar, Hani, Silvan, Bismil, lice, Sur and Kağlar have assessed the application for the annulment and execution of the Co-Chairs' decision taken by municipal parliaments, and the court has ruled that it is not in accordance with the law to implement co-chair after its examination. But what we want to say is that the party is a party that actually applies the co-chair system. As a matter of fact, it is a system adopted in parliament in the package of democratisation, and we are based on participating democracy. As a matter of fact, we come from a political understanding that demands that society's dynamics be implemented in the city council, in its administration and in the budget, and we allow society to govern itself wherever life takes place. So, if we can't overcome centrifugalism throughout Turkey, at least we believe that the need for participating democracy should be fulfilled. The law is behind society. The fundamental area of society is the legitimate one, and that's why we adopted the co-chair. And once again, I want to make it clear that we're not going to give up on this app. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit01spe0010par0069	Thank you. Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit01spe0011par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Recai Yıldırım, our vice president of the two-term legislature, received the mercy of Hakkk last Saturday. That's what I wanted to say in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. May God have mercy on the rest of you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit01spe0010par0074	We wish him mercy. No more speeches. We're going on the agenda, Mr. Lawmakers. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly On 29 September 2014, the ruling of the Economic and Parasal Union in Rome, Italy's capital city of the Council of Europe, was held by the President of the Council of Europe on 29 September 2014, as part of the Council of Europe's Council of Europe's Parliament for Stability, Co-ordination and Disposal Treaty on Article 13th Articles of Co-ordination, and Budget Commission Chairman and Manisa MP Recai Berber (Iconcert of Turkey), which was held by the chairman of the Grand Assembly of Turkey's political party group members at the meeting held in Rome. It has been presented to your knowledge. The Prime Minister has a statement about the extradition of the bill, and I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Care: dated 13/6/2014 and dated 31853594-101-974-2639. I would like to ask that the Court of State of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the United States of Mexico be sent back under Article 75, under Article 75, under which the Court of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey shall approve the Agreement on Reciprocity and Protection of Investments. The bill made by the Foreign Commission has been reinstated to the government. There's a motion to resign from the commission, I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I resign from the membership of the National Board of Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission and from the Commission's Chairmanship of the European Security and Co-operation Parliamentary Assembly because I was elected Group Deputy President in the elections of our Group General Assembly on Monday (January 01/09/2014). For your information. AK PARTY Group Deputy President It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In view of the historical, sociological and legal background, I would like to request a parliamentary examination of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, so that we can discuss its validity and functionality, to determine the difficulties under the obligation of the military, to determine changes in legal legislation. 1) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] In the 18th century, the nation's state quality and central dimensions of governance and governance, making its borders relatively clear, created a new world. The Ottomans, who are late in implementing the reality that resists the changes imposed by time and circumstances, have paid the price very heavily. The great empire, which has served its glory with its borders and with its military achievements, rules the jihad on its own, has failed to adapt to progress and has become lonely. Being an open target, the Ottoman is now worth a man who is expected to die for the new world. The mandatory military application, used as an ideological tool for the organisation of the nation, has been divided by some reform-seeking reform movements. This has shown itself in Ottoman province to demand that military service for non-Muslims be at the price of Islam's Fermani (Islahat) and the non-Muslims' service. The request will then be found for European communities who have often seen the First and Second World Wars to do so by those who have the will and determination to do so, not by exclusion of some groups, but by those who lack the pleasure and desire to join the army. While the serious border concerns that make itself feel in the nation's stateisation process make clear the mandatory military practice, the completion of this process in its own conditions will become clear after what intensive and conscientious accounting it sees as the object of a series of military needs. History is an academic area of primary importance, where a society learns its reality and its political preferences and lines in this sense at the point of questioning. Thus, a people who do not know how to learn from their own history cannot see their future. The War of Salvation is not a time to be ritualized by official rhetoric and rituals, as well as historical and memory. This is not an account for the position of general politics as a calming pill of the security-axis political tradition, which is considered the mark of poor children who have been sent off and died alone. I think they've already taken from the glorious date of the women who stitched up the pain of their children, who were raised without them in the pain of their wives they lost on the front. In order to maintain state ideology, this mechanism has reached the point of consuming the curves that have no objection to adding to its gears, no matter how privileged precepts there are about religion for war. A man is a character player in the notion of violence. However, a person's temperament, opinion, and opinion has brought with it some psychological issues of discipline and conflict that he cannot tolerate, including a question motion. In this regard, the application of discipline with individual special treatment leads to further increase in the problem and a traumatic and tragic outcome of the outcome. It is the duty of the TBMM, the legislature, which is to transfer savings to other national interests, both through study and detection of the world's samples and by the study and detection of defence expenditures. There are no legal obstacles ahead of the regulation, and the importance of this request, which is a reason for me to express the need for a revision of institutions within the democratic environment, requires a parliamentary investigation to determine changes to the legal legislation. Congressmans, I'm gonna have to take a ten-minute break because there's a problem with the sound system, and it needs to be fixed.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0010par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 2nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We continue to read other research proposals. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At the request of the arrested Şırnak MP Faysal Sarıyıldız, we demand that the investigation of the 3 villagers killed by rangers and soldiers in the village of Kuyuzoymak (Başa) in Şırnak province be opened by Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, as to the exhumation of criminal killings in the area. The Kurdish problem stands before us as one of the biggest problems of the last century and today. Instead of solving this problem in democratic and peaceful ways, the policies of the rulings who preferred the war and the security concept affected people with all the scorching of war throughout Turkey, particularly the regions in which the Kurdish population lived. The Kurdish people paid the worst price for the policies carried out by governments trying to solve the problem in military ways. In particular, thousands of citizens have been victims of unsolved murders during the State of Emergency, which have been implemented as a "safety" precaution in areas where Kurds are dense. Denial and assimilationist policies on Kurds over the past decades have led to the deaths of thousands of people, the evacuation of many villages, the migration of thousands of people from geography, but these policies continue today. In the 1990s, these policies felt the most violent. During this period, people were taken from their villages, their homes, their workplaces, captured and kidnapped in the streets, some were never heard from again, others were found dead on the side of the road. The chief of staff of the period, Doğan Wrestling, as well as intense fighting in the mountains, said "total war." There have been 1,700 unsolved murders during this total war. However, the search for rights and justice still continues, thousands of families do not even have a headstone to go to, not to find the relatives they lost, but to find the perpetrators. The immediate trial and punishment of those responsible for this injury will ease some of the suffering. One of the thousands of incidents occurred in 1993 in the village of Yağuzoymak, in the District of Kuykonak, Basa, Şırnak Province, Turkey. Three villagers, taken into custody by soldiers and rangers in the village, were killed by being thrown off a cliff. Eyewitnesses reported that in 1993, soldiers and rangers entered their village, Hiresh, during an air-and-land operation. According to the story, the entire village was kept in the square in the schoolyard for two days and tortured. According to eyewitness accounts, soldiers and rangers took Beşir Basak, Sait Shen, Abdullah Güler and Ahmet Güler from the villagers in custody in front of the entire village. The villagers who were taken to the Gendarme Battalion Command in the village of Fatizoymak were thrown off a cliff at some point between the villages of Hiresh and Ziving and were thrown off a cliff and made to look like fighting. At the time of the incident, Beşir Basak, Sait Shen and Abdullah Güler were killed, while the peasant Ahmet Güler was buried under the funeral of his friends. Later, Guler, who waited for soldiers and rangers to leave the area, arrived at Ziving village wounded for two hours and told the villagers about the situation and told the villagers that his other friends had died there and that the funerals were at the scene. The villagers then go to the scene and meet the dead bodies of Sait Shen, Beşir Basak and Abdullah Guler. The villagers take the bodies and bury them near the Gendarme Battalion Command, near the village of Yağizoymak. Following applications, three bodies were found buried side by side in the same grave, along with their clothes, in the mountains near the Gendarme Battalion Command, in the area of Küpeeli Mountain on 29 January 2012, under the direction of the Diyarbakır Special Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office. The missing relatives who followed the excavations identified the bodies by their clothes. Blood samples were taken for DNA testing from people identified as Sait Shen, Bashir Basak and Abdullah Guler. He was sent to Istanbul Forensic Medicine for a DNA test to determine whose bones were found. Following the results of the DNA test, the bones belonging to Sait Shen, Beşir Basak and Abdullah Güler were handed over to their families on 25/9/2012 by the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office of Cizre. After this inhuman massacre, no investigation has been conducted against anyone. In this sense, the perpetrators of the three villagers killed by rangers and soldiers must be found, punished by those responsible for the crime, and opened a parliamentary investigation into the past-time unsolved murders in the region. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As in many countries around the world, the ongoing conflict in our country leads to great loss of life, human rights violations, economic crisis, and many more casualties. Peace talks have been launched and talks have continued in countries where the problem cannot be solved by methods of violence. As such, there are examples of the country that end years of conflict and bring about peace. In order to put an end to the conflict and violence in our country and shed light on the peace process, I respectfully submit to the opening of the Parliament's investigation into the 98th and 105th Articles of the Constitution and the Interior Charter. The Kurdish problem is at the top of our country's most important problems. The basis for this problem began in the late part of the Ottoman Empire, but the most painful period has been happening for the past 35 years. During this period, major casualties have occurred as a result of illegal activities involving the eastern and southeast of the country. The PKK (Kurdistan Workers' Party), which led these organisations and provided more public support, was formed in 1978, and continued these actions by increasing their actions in 1984 in the 90s. In the 35 years that have been going on, there are no guarantees, but according to official statements, more than 40,000 of our citizens have lost their lives. The east and southeast have been ruled by an extraordinary state for 15 years, and as a result, 4,500 villages have been evacuated, more than 5 million people have been emigrated from their villages, more than 3,000 have been victims of unsolved murders, thousands have been victims of torture, and prisons are filled with political prisoners. In the process, different actors have been able to find solutions to the problem, but they have not been accepted by the answers to the problem. In the past two years, in particular, the increased deaths as a result of conflict and more intense operations than in the 90s have forced the issue to be resolved by military means, and democratic channels must be forced, and compromises and talks must now be carried out in an urgent manner. This problem is not unique to our country. In many countries, there have been periods of long-term conflict between cultural, sometimes national, and sometimes armed groups that have started armed riots with social demands. To end conflict and social divisions, negotiations have been tried between the parties, and, as in the UK-IRA example, the negotiations process has continued for thirteen years, but has kept the weapons quiet. In addition to the British-IRA example, the Spanish and Basque talks are also important for the negotiations between Mexico and Zapatas and Guatemala and URNG in Latin America. South Africa, Asian countries are also examples of peace processes. In addition, peace talks will begin on 5 October 2012 to end the 50-year armed struggle between the Colombian government and FARC. In this context, the use of the countries of the world's reconciliation and negotiation processes will be a guide to the solution to the problem in our country, with the idea that fighting, killing, and suffering in our country will benefit from peace. We feel it is necessary to set up a commission to investigate the world's peace processes. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, members of parliament, members of lawmakers who are not members of the political party's group are also eligible for membership in the Commission for the Equality of Women and Men's Opportunities Commissions on Public Economic Oppositions. It is Monday (October 13th 2014) at 18 p.m. of non-political party members who want to run for office. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. Members of Parliament (9/10) Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan (9/10) who has been read in the 130/8/2014 Union of the General Assembly (6/8/2014) under the parliamentary investigation of the Parliament (9/10) the main number of MPs to the Republican People's Party group, Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi and Sinop MP Engin Altay and Yalova MP Muharrem İnce (11/2014) have been removed from the main procedure given by the General Assembly and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ahmet Davutoğlu (11/37). It has been presented to your knowledge. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has three papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The "RACVIAC-Cultation Almadda Covenant: Strategy and Dilemma" seminar, held in Zagreb, Croatia on 23-25 September 2014, is presented to the General Assembly's approval of Sakarya MP Şaban Toothli under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28.3.1990 and 3620. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation from the Council of Agriculture, Forests and Villages Commission from 26 October 27 October 2014 to participate in the meeting of Presidents of the Committee for Industrial Development and Small-Middle-Secused Opportunities, which will be held by the Council of the European Union of Italy, is presented to the draft of the General Assembly on a formal visit to Rome, the capital of Italy, dated 28.3.1990, and under Article 9th Article of the Law on Editing Foreign Relations of Turkey's Grand National Assembly of Turkey, 3620. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Constitutional Commission President Burhan Kum, Justice Commission Chairman Ahmet Edımaya and İzmir MP Mahmut Rýza Türmen's participation will be submitted to the General Assembly's provisions under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28.3.1990 and 3620 in accordance with Article 9 of the Constitutional Commission. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal given in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Thursday (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Council. [[Kayseri]] AK PARTY Group Deputy President The General Assembly's continued work in a merger Thursday (October 02th 2014) to meet with Turkey's national security threat and to take the necessary measures against any security risk, to eliminate attacks on our country from all terrorist organisations in Iraq and Syria, by Article 92 of the Constitution, to allow the government a year's time off, followed by 21 p.m. on Tuesday (October 14th 2014). Until 00; 15 and 16 October 2014 -- Wednesday and Thursday's joints -- 2:00 to 21. He was advised to continue his work between the hours of 00 hours. In favour of the group's proposal for the Justice and Development Party, the first speech is from İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0012par0070	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, before I begin my words, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a commitment to express my views in favor of the EC PARTY group proposal. At the core of our group proposal, today at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0013par0072	I can't hear you, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0012par0073	Okay.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0014par0074	Congressmans, we've said...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0012par0075	It is recommended that our General Assembly work until the session's negotiations are completed. In addition, we agreed that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would not work next week at 8-9-10. Again, a proposal for the working hours of Tuesday (October 14th), Wednesday (October 15th) and Thursday (October 16th). Dear lawmakers, the second amendment to Article 117 of the Constitution has ruled that the Council of Ministers is responsible for providing national security and the preparation of the Armed Forces for national defence is responsible for the Council of Ministers against the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Again, in the first joke of Article 92 of the Constitution, the declaration of war in which international law is considered legitimate, and the mandate of Turkish Armed Forces to hold troops abroad or to allow foreign armed forces to be found in Turkey is ordered by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, except under international agreements or the rules of international courtesy which Turkey is on. Turkey's Grand National Assembly implements such permits as a Parliamentary decision. These decisions have to be carried out by the first amendment of Article 92 of the Constitution -- the concept of the state in which international law is legitimate -- which the United Nations Council has decided on this issue -- and the other features are the reason, the purpose, the scope, and the duration of the mandate. These are the conditions of validity of the decision. Dear lawmakers, the Prime Minister's Office, which is currently being sent to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has detailed the grounds for this request for authority. As it is known, there are serious threats and risks to our national security along Turkey's southern land borders.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0015par0080	What's that got to do with your proposal, bro?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0012par0081	Again, the number of terrorist organisations in Syria and Iraq and its violent activities have been seen to be significantly increased by threats related to terrorist activities. As a matter of fact, the United Nations Security Council also called upon the United Nations Security Council in 2014 to take necessary measures against the activities of ISIS and other terrorist organisations, provided it confirms the territorial integrity and independence of Iraq and Syria through decisions 2170 and 2178. The next thesis is being submitted to the approval of the Supreme General Assembly, as part of the measures on this issue, and the government will be granted a year's leave of absence.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0015par0082	We didn't start the debate, brother, which is a different story.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0012par0083	As it is known, the 2007 Iraqi thesis was extended six times, and the Syrian thesis was again a one-year notice in 2012, and its time is up. At this moment, we predict that today's debate, which is very important for our national security, will be held today -- and during those talks, the precious opposition, of course, will list their criticism, suggestions, recommendations, and we will be happy to listen to them -- and after these talks are completed today, the General Assembly will interrupt their work. I look forward to your support for our proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0016par0086	Thank you. Mr. Adil Zozani is the first speaker to oppose the Justice and Development Party group proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0017par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish the new year of legislation was a blessing, and I would like to start talking to the public in favour of the people living in Turkey during this new legislature of our Parliament, hoping that social life will be relaxed, democratic development decisions. We are against this group's proposal because we are against the social events that are going on in the form that are reflected just beyond the borders of Turkey, and even within its borders, its reaction to this war cannot be tied to a dissertation, its reaction is not a matter of dissertation. We'd like to ask the government: last year, there are provisions approved by this Parliament; there are Syrian documents; there are Iraqi treaties. Why haven't you done the Syrian thesis so far? You did it, you did it, you did it by feeding the gangs there. Directly or indirectly, knowingly or not, you have a share in feeding and macheting gangs in Syria. Now you want to extend that time for another year. It'll be like you've done something new by combining two markers. No, you haven't been able to compensate for the current thesis. Turkey wouldn't have seen this photo if you had. Here, ISIS gangs appear just above the Turkish border. It's the ISIS gangs who slaughter civilians and cut up children. It's 100 yards from your soldier. They're doing this 100 yards from your police. Why didn't you interfere? Where were you yesterday? Didn't the government have jurisdiction? I do. You were given the authority last year to comment on this matter. Why didn't you do the right thing? Because the ISIS gangs there have a connection to you somehow. Somehow you've mauled them. What did Turkey take down in the village of Silib Qeran, what gave it to whom? We asked that question. Why don't you answer me? Look, we're naming names. Just ten days ago, in the village of Silib Qeran, near Turkey's border, what was downloaded from Turkey's trucks and what was delivered there? Why don't you answer that question?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0018par0096	And then there's the Giresor, and so is Giresor.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0017par0097	Are you going to try and get this thing to go on for a while? There's a massacre of humanity there. People are being slaughtered in their homes in broad daylight. You're doing one more thing with this thesis: you're bringing up a dissertation of self-defense, legitimate defenses, which is equating civilians and ISIS gangs. You're putting up an attitude that equates the people of Kobani with the ISIS gangs, with this inhuman gang of savages. And then you go out and you say, "Sir, you're either going to say yes to the thesis, or we're going to say that you're in elbow contact with ISIS gangs." You won't be able to pin the crime on anyone else who's been framed and identified and fixed. Naked reality is obvious. Turkey has a share in the atrocity of this gang, and that's not what it can do to remove its sin. There was already what you call a safe zone. In the Kurdistan of Rojava, the people were defending themselves, but the violence was tolerated to reduce the gains of the Kurdish people there. We had no authority. You could not say, you had authority, you could intervene. You could have interfered with these gangs within your borders. Let it be, there's no need for the trans-border operations authority to be taken because ISIS gangs have turned Turkey's southern border into a camp and come and go through it every day. The treatment they receive in hospitals in Turkey is constant, and the training they receive in the camps in Turkey is constant. They're not claims, they're data. Did the State Department of Turkey, the Ministry of State, the Ministry of National Defense, get out and put up a fight? There are instructions from this council to the Governors of Hatay and Gaziantep from the Ministry of Interior, which have been read. Did you do what you had to do? You described them as Mujahit. The Mujahideen you described are cutting up children today. Do you realize what you've done, what you've done?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0019par0102	Mr. President, the preacher is speaking, but the government is talking there. Who's he talking to now? I mean, we're discussing something this serious.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0020par0103	I've made the necessary warning, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0017par0104	In the present situation, Kurdish political movement and armed elements protect nearly 1,250km of the Turkish border from these ISIS gangs. From Afrin to Kerkuk, they are in a position to protect democratic life in Turkey and social life in some way against the violence of ISIS. Not only do they protect the Kurds there, but everyone from Yezidi to Süryani, Kurdish to Turkmen, is in that protective circle. Just a few days ago, a month was incomplete, tens of thousands of Ezidi came to Turkey, what did the government do about it? Was he able to give Ezidi a matchstick, even to help him? He hasn't been found. Did he stand on it? He didn't stop. Yesterday, Mr. President gave a speech here, and I took those sentences as a self-criticism, as a false turn. What's he saying? He says: "Sunni," called Alevi, Christian, "Kurk, Kurd, Arab, Georgian, Laz, Çerkek, Abaza, Roman, Bosniak, Armenian, Ezidi, Suryani, and so forth. For the first time, he listed all these names together. We've never been in such a transition. I've never witnessed such a transfer on this council bench in terms of the oratories who used this bench. The President of the present, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the prime minister of the time. Where did he do it? In October 2012, he spoke in Elazig. Do you remember what he accused us of? He said to us, "You are Yezidi, and you are Zarathust." I don't know if he wasn't aware of it, but I'd like to call him from here today, I really want to say good morning. If such a people did not know that such a belief existed in the Middle East, we will assume that it was not said, at least today we will accept that they had given up. Mr. Davutogluna -- we talked to him for several times in the Prime Minister's office, as well as when he was Minister of Foreign Affairs -- he was warned that these violent gangs organized in Syria would eventually target Turkey in the end, but we have stated that he would always ignore all warnings of his own truth, believing that his rights were absolutely right, but now the ISIS gangs are on your side, even within you. İstanbul is performing at İstanbul University. They're in the position of attack on students at Istanbul University, and you have to watch them with your hands tied. You're coming now, asking for authorization. Oh, you had the authority. Come on, let's say you didn't have clearance across the border, which you don't interfere with. Have you not seen those who pray in the name of ISIS, who pray in the name of ISIS? Have you not seen them on TV? Why didn't you intervene? Why aren't you interfering? ISIS is in you, ISIS is in us, Turkey is in us. If you want to intervene, there's nothing tying your hands. If you decide to cut your elbow contact from today, we say it's a blessing. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0021par0109	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. The second speaker in favour of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal is Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu, Kayseri MP; go ahead.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0022par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I hope to God that the new year of legislation is a blessing. I wish that the next Sacrifice Day would be a blessing for all of you, the Turkish nation and the Islamic world. Yes, dear friends, we'll discuss the thesis right after this, it's been brought forward. There are important issues at the counter, of course. In the beginning, the PKK says there are armed PKK terror elements in the northern part of Iraq, especially in the northern part of Iraq. It does not mention those in Turkey, as if there were no PKK terror elements or armed groups in Turkey. So I'd like to start here first. So, if you want to maintain national security, first in your system, you will provide security on the territory of the Republic of Turkey, national security, and then you will fight the outside better. You're sitting at the table with PKK terror organization on the other hand, under the name of the solution process, but you're saying: "We're solving the Kurdish problem." We also see that you've fallen into a serious recession about whether the PKK represents Kurds or not. So, you come out in a sense like that, you bring it in. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip. On the other hand, when you're combining Iraq and Syria, you're talking about ISIS. Everyone here is probably agreed, ISIS is a terrorist organization, but you only started telling the United States of America that it was a terrorist organization after the President arrived, and you couldn't tell it before that. Now, you've started this, but we've always said that it's a terrorist organization, and we've said that you should say that, but today, you're saying that because it's threatening our national security, we've merged the thesis against ISIS because ISIS operates both in Syria and Iraq, and we're offering it with one thesis. So, in this sense, you've prepared a thesis that has nothing to do with the Syrian government, which has nothing to do with the terrorist organization. So if you want to build a security corridor on the borders of Turkey, you need to know that this is now in a position that has nothing to do with Syria. On the other hand, you're saying there's been a huge wave of migration to Turkey. Yes, it's not new, it's about 1.5 million Syrians in Turkey, and today, you're scattered all over Turkey and you can't control them, you don't know what diseases they're carrying, hospitals are full, there's no beggars in the streets, there's no beggars in the mosque gates, and you're talking about a security corridor, and you're talking about the area. You should have done this at the beginning and kept the immigrants here, and you should've given them the necessary support, but today, in Turkey, these are the ones that come out with issues of security. On the other hand, we need to save them from what we call the same Arab, which is called the same Arab, which is called the same Arab, but you call it the Kobani, so you're saying that we need to save them from the attacks of ISIS. So, before, for the Turkmen in Afrin, why didn't they see what they saw today? So they weren't human when they became Turkmen? Why didn't you show the same reaction to the Turkmen, your reaction to the region you call Kobani? He also explains: "Sir, we protect the Turkmen. We protect the Turkmen. No one protects the Turkmen, but the Turkmen had to retreat to the south of Baghdad today. Some of them came to Turkey's borders and were asked for passports when they wanted to enter Turkey from here. Well, why don't you ask the oppressed or the Kurds for passports and ask only for Turkishmen's passports? I wonder how you're going to answer that. On the other hand, you're talking about a security breach. In fact, haven't you made the greatest contribution to Syria's instability as a government? If a state doesn't make an effort to stabilize its neighbours right next to its borders, the chaos will return to them tomorrow and threaten them, as it happened. If there was stability in Syria today, you became Assad, Esed, then Assad again, but... what extent of your efforts to democratize without bloodshed were there, in connection with this, always through agreement, through compromise, without bloodshed? We know you've gathered the Council of Ministers together, and we know you've had breakfast together, but how did he suddenly turn into Assad Esed, and suddenly you're the enemy? In fact, everyone knows, and you know it, it was part of the United States's Great Middle East Project. In fact, what you did best, what you made the right decision in foreign policy, was to negotiate trade agreements with Syria and to clear the borders by lifting visas. It was the right policy, but all of a sudden, whatever happened, you gave up this policy, this right policy. Even the Westerners had criticized it. I wonder if Turkey is changing its course or changing its course. In fact, after 1918, after the fall of Syria -- after the fall of the Ottoman Empire -- our line with France, which was the French occupation, the colony -- was indeed broken, and when you first arrived, you had your best policy, and you had lifted the visas, developed the trade, and indeed, there had been a hug, when both the Syrian people and the people of Turkey were trading as brothers, and they could go and come to each other and sit down in the evening. Why did you suddenly feel the need to change this beautiful painting? So you didn't see some of the screamers coming from 10,000 kilometers away and eyeing the oil here? So you've already seen the error of a policy that killed nearly a million people in the Iraq War who came in talking about chemical weapons and bombed it? Why did you follow that policy in Syria, ignoring them? The one who died in Syria today -- you say, "Esad killed" -- but the plague of 200,000 Muslims is on you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0023par0123	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0022par0124	Get out of here! That's what happens when you try to understand. First of all, if you do not accept a plague, you will be subjected to it in the presence of God tomorrow, no matter how much you resist. Try to think about it. Look, there are 500 verses in the Qur'an about thinking and thinking. You even ignore these signs. Think about it, stop politics, and you'll see it's wrong. We think about it all the time, we say it because we think about it. So making politics here doesn't mean covering up some facts. Therefore, this thesis, our speaker, will surely refer to many other aspects of it, but let me make it clear to you in particular: was it really necessary if you were to bring such a dissertation? It was necessary. It was necessary. Then you had something very important to do. This was a national issue, and since there was a thesis on putting out a fire in the south of Turkey, what you should have done was this: if you had met with the opposition, if you had been involved in this thesis, I think you would not have been subjected to some kind of plague, and you would have saved yourself. I repeat, look, if you're going to fight ISIS in Turkey, fight the people in Turkey first. Look, here, in the Ankara Ulucans, at the Social Security Agency, one person puts the ISIL logo on all correspondence... sir, what is it? The Prophet was the seal of the Lord. So by now, they've been putting the seal of the Prophet in all the official documents? But why are they putting these in after ISIS shows up? It's on the Internet, it's in the correspondence, so they printed the seal. I mean, do we have to insult the Prophet's seal by putting it everywhere, in extraordinary places like this? So don't anyone try to cheat on anyone. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0024par0130	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. İstanbul MP Akif Hamzacebi is the last speaker of the Justice and Development Party group's proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0025par0134	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I wish the new year of legislature to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and to our citizens. Again, as the Republican People's Party Group, I wish them a healthy and happy future, celebrating the Eid Day of all our MPs and citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, today we are going to discuss one of the historic days of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I must point out that Turkey's problems with its neighbours, especially Syria, have a huge role in the policy of zero problems with the Erdogan-Davutoglu bilaterals. Unfortunately, this policy left Turkey today without neighbors and has led to an impasse in foreign policy. In foreign policy, instead of a full-fledged, democratic and liberal Turkey goal to the European Union, the attempt to play the leadership of the Islamic world with a religious understanding and to intervene in the governments of neighbouring countries under that understanding, to overthrow them has brought Turkey into great problems. That's the main reason behind the thesis we're meeting today. It is the AKP's effort to intervene in the administration of this country for neighbouring countries, Syria, and to overthrow it. A statement by President Erdogan in his speech as Prime Minister from this bench yesterday made it very clear. The sentence Erdoğan used yesterday is that the immediate suspension of the Sham administration will continue to be our priority. The summary of the proposal is here. The immediate suspension of the Damascus administration is the primary goal of Erdogan and Davutoglu. Nobody look for anything else. Here's the dissertation text. Every year since 2007, there has been a dissertation for Iraq here, every time it has been renewed; since 2012, there has been a review of Syria; it has been renewed in 2013; it has now been merged into two thesises; the threat from both countries to Turkey has been combined on the same grounds, and it has been transformed into a single text. Here's the dissertation text. A total of 12 paragraphs. The first two paragraph general assessments describe the mandate requested by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. One paragraph of the nine remaining paragraphs highlights the territorial integrity of Iraq (Irak); the territorial integrity of Iraq is being assessed as a priority goal for Turkey to protect its national unity, to protect it. Seven of the remaining eight paragraphs criticised the Assad regime in Syria. Target is Assad, Assad administration. Assad (Assad) and the Republican People's Party have nothing to do with it. Assad is a non-democratic, oppressive, persecutionist president. At the counter, ISIS only takes place in one place. Somewhere there's a word passing by the PKK and a word passing by ISIS. Let's go out on the street, go around the world, look at the TV, there's talk of ISIS terrorism all over the place. Everyone is disturbed by ISIS's head-cutting, savage, inhuman practices, and all the public is disturbed. That's really what you're supposed to call it. Turkey must end its terror by taking part in the international coalition. This coalition in the modern world, of course, has to be included in the Republic of Turkey, but the immediate suspension of the government of Şam, which Mr. Erdoğan stated yesterday, is our primary goal. He tells us that Turkey will have an occupational policy in Syria, not the fight against ISIS, but the imperial spreading targets. That's the truth of it. No one will look for anything else, dear friends. Why did ISIS come to this? Turkey has interfered with Syrian internal affairs, has clearly sided with Syria, has sided with the opposition of the regime in Syria, supported them in weapons, ammunition and logistics. Anti-government organizations in Syria, formations, armed forces have camps in Turkey. These people, these troops, these forces are training in Turkey, going to Syria, fighting, coming back. Turkey has supported them with weapons, supported them with ammunition. The trucks that went there were seized, these trucks were blocked, and the weapons given by Turkey have been taken into ISIS's hands. The contrary is never proven by the government. Now, the government seems to be complaining about ISIS. The shipment of troops to ISIS is being made via Turkey. Just a week ago, I got a call from an elder from Tripoli, a brother I didn't know. My grandson flew from Germany to Tripoli, where they picked him up, took him to Syria, to ISIS, before he even came home. In Istanbul, funeral prayers are held in mosques for those who have lost their lives in the direction of ISIS's goal. Mr. Davutoglu says yesterday that Mr. Kilicdaroglu will pass the exam today. Didn't you say that these are angry, outcast groups? I mean, what do you have to do with the angry, outcast group? You have come up with this understanding, and you speak of our taking the test. We gave a similar test here on March 1, 2003, with honor, and we gave it to the best of our minds. Today the position of the Republican People's Party will again be an honor to history. We will be honored with this challenge, with this attitude. Mr. Davutoglu, we don't want to allow the Davutoglu-Erdoğan duo to drag Turkey into the fire in order to play imperial, spreader, leader of the Islamic world. (CHP clapping in rows) That's the intention, that's the whole thing. Erdogan was caught red-handed. Yesterday's speech and the immediate suspension of the government of Damascus are our goal, he says. Where is ISIS, in this thesis? You're arguing that the regime in Syria has lost its legitimacy. Iraq's territorial integrity, national integrity, stability is important to us. You say, "You can't say the same sentence for Syria." Isn't Syria's territorial integrity, stability, national integrity important to Turkey, friends? You're saying it's a mass migration. Of course, immigration is important. Well, so far, 1.5 million people have come from Syria to Turkey, so why didn't that cause an intervention, then, now? You can't play against national emotions by saying to Solomon Shah Station, "The attack on the Respect Station over there." No one will buy it. Mr. Arinc said, "The attack on Süleyman Saşak has come close, there is danger." Last night, Mr. Erdoğan said in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: "Where did he come from?" No such thing. Why are you writing here? It is the land of the Republic of Turkey. There's no need to press charges there, the Turkish Armed Forces will go and intervene. Chief of Staff Mr. Necdet Special said so today. That's no excuse for a dissertation, you can't fool anyone. If you're sincere, bring it in, place your motive for ISIS terrorism here, limit it to this. Look, even in that rejected March 1st, the government at the time had taken a more honorable stance, and said: "So much so -- so many American soldiers, so many planes, so many helicopters, and so far north of Iraq. There is no division of territory, no division of arms, no distinction of foreign armed forces. Foreign armed forces will come to Turkey, deploy, leave. Turkey is unpredictable. You have no right to drag Turkey into adventure, to bring this country to disaster by the blood of Mehmetçik. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0026par0147	Thank you. The Justice and Development Party...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0027par0149	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0026par0150	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0027par0151	In his speech earlier, the Deputy Director of the Group has voiced, criticised, unrelated arguments about our Group President's empirical intentions.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0028par0152	Sir, this is a review of the government, so... the government will speak, sir, a criticism of the government, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0027par0153	Out of our opinion on that, and out of the argument, he gave a speech targeting the AK PARTY Group. If you'll excuse me, I'll answer in two minutes.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0029par0154	Here, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0027par0158	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Mr. Hamzacebi sums up the thesis, counts the paragraph numbers, looks at it, says there's a sentence in the final sentence, in the last paragraph of the last page. The main issue here is that without knowing what the source of the swamp was, without revealing it, without revealing when the ISIS terrorist organization had emerged and without imagining it, it is clearly a weakness to criticize this thesis. The terrorist organization was able to feed during the time of the Syrian regime, when it slaughtered its own people, when the regime in Iraq did so with its own people, and when it persecuted the people living in its territory.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0030par0160	You fed it.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0027par0161	Now, I'm looking at Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Hamzacebi's speech was applauded by the Republican People's Party MPs in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but I believe, I believe, if he had made this speech in the Syrian Parliament, I think Mr. Hamzacebi would have received a much bigger round of applause. (AK PARTY, applause from CHP rows) As if you were not a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the Republic of Turkey, you have now, unfortunately, fallen into a position of MP defending the Assad regime.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0031par0162	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0027par0163	Look, you've come to the point of protecting Assad's people and the people of his own country and a terrorist organization like ISIS, when you have to voice criticism about the regime that feeds a vicious organization, which brings out a ripening infrastructure, while you ignore all the mistakes that Assad has committed in this matter.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0031par0164	You're the accomplice to the murder.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0027par0165	I express my regrets on behalf of Mr. Hamzacebi and his fellow citizens in Tripoli. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0032par0167	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0033par0168	Mr. Elitaş has made a statement in a way that I did not speak of in a way that is unrealistic, by accusing me of defending the Assad regime. I want word on Article 69, sir.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0032par0169	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0033par0172	Mr. President, my criticism was clear. The heart would like Mr. Elitaş to come and respond to these criticisms. He's saying something else. In my speech, I made it clear that Assad is the president of a state who oppresses his people and puts pressure on them.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0034par0174	Bravo!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0033par0175	He's basically heard it himself, and he's got nothing to say, and he's struggling for it. Dear friends, Turkey is not a country that will be the instrument of Davutoglu's dispersal, imperial demands. A Turkish target, whose Panislamist spreader plays for the leadership of the Islamic world, is bringing Turkey into adventure, into conflict, which Turkey can't get out of. I see a war cry here, I don't see a struggle against ISIS. The international coalition... what's the international coalition doing? I'll tell you one by one what they're doing as far as countries are concerned, there's a list here, and I can give it all to you if you want. US Secretary of State Kerry: No, we don't want any black ops. Again, the White House spokesman makes the same statement: never, this is our red line. What are the other countries doing? It says air operations, it says humanitarian aid, it says "diplomatic support," it says "diplomatic support," it says "medicine support." None of them think it's right that I'm going to join the ground. If you think that's true, come and explain, but you can't. Your intention, not to fight the ISIS terrorist organization, is to overthrow the Damascus administration and say this yesterday: the overthrow of the Sham administration is our primary goal. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to bring there a government that will be Turkey's puppet.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0180	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0033par0181	You want to drag the Turkish Armed Forces into battle for this. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0184	Thank you. I submit to your votes the group proposal of the Justice and Development Party: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, according to Article 92 of the Constitution, the Prime Minister's office has a thesis, and I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Risks and threats to our national security along Turkey's southern land borders have greatly increased as a result of recent developments. Armed PKK terror elements exist in the northern part of Iraq. On the other hand, the number of other terrorist elements in Syria and Iraq is also being seen as a significant increase in their threat. As a result, the United Nations Security Council has confirmed the territorial integrity and independence of Iraq and Syria with its decisions 2170 (2014) and 2178 (2014), and has condemned terrorist activities in these countries and urged all countries of the United Nations against the activities of ISIS and similar terrorist organisations to take necessary measures in accordance with their responsibilities in the framework of the United Nations Security Council and international law. Given all these factors, it has also been our obligation to take additional measures against threats and dangers in Iraq and Syria, which were first released in 2007, which had been extended six times, and to continue the risks that had once extended the Syrian conflict in 2012, and to take as much international law as necessary, due to the fact that new elements had also stepped in. Turkey, which refers to the protection of Iraq's territorial integrity, its national unity and stability, has to continue by increasing military, political and diplomatic measures and initiatives against terrorist groups' presence in Iraq and threats. On the other hand, there have been increasing risks and threats from the regime's four-year violence policies in Syria in terms of humanitarian, regional security and stability. The regime continues its attacks on civilians with no distinction and no exception in resorting to any heavy weapons. It also follows a policy that aims to turn social differences into actual conflict by supporting terrorist groups, exploiting ethnic and religious belonging, in order to maintain its rule without legitimacy. The security crisis, which the Syrian regime has encouraged them to operate in areas close to our country, has deepened as part of their search for influence by terrorist groups. Thanks to the support and cooperation of the Assad regime, terrorist groups in Syria have also moved their actions to Iraq, leading this country into chaos and instability. Therefore, the scope of threats from the Syrian regime has expanded with the threat of terrorism, making regional and international peace a serious threat to security and stability. Turkey is the country of the region, which is at its highest risk and threat. Turkey cannot be expected to be indifferent to these risks and threats in this framework. So far, many of our citizens have lost their lives in Syrian attacks. The regime continues to move towards our country in search of a safe haven for civilian citizens trapped between the violence policy and the pressure of terrorist elements. Depending on the trajectory of the conflict environment in Syria, the scope of the migration movement is likely to expand and reach mass size. The Syrian regime's aggressive policies, including ballistic missiles, are continuing to aggravate the destruction caused by heavy weapons attacks on our country. The regime did not conclude the destruction of chemical weapons supplies and production facilities in its possession in accordance with the United Nations Security Council Resolution 2118 (2013). In addition, the report by the Data Collection Mission of Chemical Weapons found that chlorine gas was being used systematicly and exponentially in Syria, while the United Nations International Independent Syrian Research Commission reported that it was resorting to chlorine gas in the regime's attacks, as well as the regime killing more than 200,000 people with conventional weapons in our country's national interests. On the other hand, under international law, the risk of security at the Süleyman Shah Respect Station, which is considered Turkish territory, has increased. All developments mentioned above confirm that Turkey is the country most affected by any attack by the regime and terrorist groups, as well as the uncertainty and chaos in Syria. In this framework, it is important to determine and implement the necessary measures in accordance with our rights due to international law, against any threat or action that could endanger our national security. To protect Turkey's high interests effectively and protect its high interests in the course of international law against any security risk, to eliminate attacks on our country from all terrorist organisations in Iraq and Syria, and to ensure that its security is maintained against other possible risks, such as mass migration, during the crisis and later, and to ensure that its possible developments will be carried out by the Turkish authorities in order to ensure that a rapid and dynamic policy will be followed in order not to meet any further conditions, according to the course of developments, and to ensure that the threat to all foreign forces will be put into place, according to the issue, and to ensure that it will be used in order to ensure that every possible situation.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0036par0209	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0210	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0036par0211	This statement, referred to by the government to the Parliament's agenda, is a disputation against Article 92 of the Constitution, so it can't be raised, corrected, but the Constitution...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0212	I can't hear you. Can you raise your voice a little? It's a disputation against the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0036par0214	Since the Constitution is openly in violation of Article 92 of Article 92, I would like to point out that this statement cannot be taken into consideration.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0037par0215	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0216	Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0037par0217	Mr. President, this is the government's request for permission, which will be the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As a matter of fact, the Constitutional Court has been applied to the Constitutional Court at various times, but since the Constitutional Court has not been present in the scope of the examination, the first joke of Article 92 of the Constitution clearly and clearly states that it is against the law to allow the Turkish Armed Forces to be sent to foreign countries or to allow foreign armed forces to be found in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0038par0218	The Parliament cannot give over its authority to the government, which, of course, is contrary to the Constitution, and our friend is right.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0219	Mr. Tanal, I'm talking to Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0038par0220	I apologize.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0221	Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0039par0222	Mr. President, Mr. Elitaş may not have read the thesis, we will excuse him, he has signed the government, he does not have to read it. But when all the sentences of this thesis are read carefully, the powers that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has handed over to Afet and Emergency Management No. 5902 are contrary to the 92nd, 11th and 124th Articles of the Constitution. So I'm saying that this statement can only be discussed by correcting this situation.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0223	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0040par0224	Mr. President, Mr. Zozani would like to address the Constitution...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0225	Congressman, now I get it, I get the point. I'd like to make a statement. This statement came to the chairman of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, published, processed on the incoming list of papers, and took part in the agenda's section of the hearings. We read the thesis. At this stage, the dissolution, such as the violation of the Constitution, does not have the authority to be removed from the process, nor does the Speaker have the authority to run the Court today, not the Divan. So, in a moment, we're going to talk about the thesis, and you can tell us what you think here. Eventually, it will be voted and approved by the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0041par0227	How do you know?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0228	As you suggested, I have no such authority as the Court.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0042par0229	Mr. President, if the Presidential Court decides whether to accept it or not, we have no objection to that. I think you should correct that sentence.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0230	It will be accepted or not.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0042par0231	No, you said it would be accepted.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0232	That must have been a slip of the tongue. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0042par0233	Now, one thing that has been overlooked by the Presidential Court is that in the 2nd sentence of this statement, Parliament has passed the law on to an institution, where the authority is taken from it. We don't make laws by default.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0234	Mr. Zozani, I've listened to you very well, and I understand very well, but I have no authority to respond positively to your request.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0042par0235	If you insist on your attitude, we demand a formal discussion.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0236	This came in, it was on the list of papers coming in, it was in the section of the reviews, and I repeat -- neither the Parliamentary Presidency nor we, nor I, have the authority to run this matter as acting Speaker of Parliament now. For that reason, I'm in no position to be responsible for your transaction.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0042par0237	Mr. President, look, this has been repeated here over and over again. There have been similar objections in previous meetings, and we have testified that they have been taken into consideration in your presidency.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0238	What was considered, for example, Mr. Zozani?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0042par0239	For example, it's been removed from the process.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0240	Did the Court remove the court, or did the Court remove it from the process?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0042par0241	You can get the motion owner to withdraw this motion, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0242	I can't do that. The government is here, the Minister is here, he will speak.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0042par0243	But the Constitution is clearly against...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0244	I can't handle this right now. It's done. You say, I'm asking you for an example. What can I do here as Chairman of the Court? I don't have that authority.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0042par0245	Mr. President, if you insist on your position, I demand a formal discussion.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0246	Okay, just a minute.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0043par0247	Mr. President, you've already made your statement. This statement will be discussed. There are rules and principles about how to view it in the Constitution, and the Civil Charter has counted it. All political party groups will talk, talk for 20 minutes, and two congressmen will state their opinion on the matter, the government will make its statement.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0248	Yeah, I'll explain in a minute.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0043par0249	It is only by the will of the High Assembly that it is possible to undo it. If the Supreme Assembly refuses, this dissertation will already be off the agenda, and if the Supreme Assembly agrees, it will continue the thesis.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0250	I said the same thing, yes. Mr. Zozani, there's nothing to be done.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0044par0252	Mr. President, let's negotiate, sir.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0045par0253	You insist on a violation of the Constitution, Mr. President, I demand a formal discussion of your position.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0254	Now, I'm going to open up the legal debate, but I don't accept your statement. I have no authority to do it, and you insist on accusing me, please.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0044par0255	Mr. President, the House doesn't engage in absurdities, we don't discuss the ways of things that don't change the outcome!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0256	Mr. Kaçir, forget it, leave it. Do you want me to open it, or do you want me to discuss it?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0046par0258	Yes, I do, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0259	All right, I'm gonna open up a legal debate.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0047par0260	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0048par0261	Against you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0262	Now I'm going to make a promise to each party. Please, no objections, let's do this democratically. Mr. Adil Zozani is against him; Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu is against him; Mr. Akif Hamzacebi is against him. Mr. Mustafa Elitaş, will you or Dogan Kabbat speak in his favor?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0049par0265	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0035par0266	I'd like to call Mr. Mustafa Elias to the stand to speak in Polish. Here, your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0049par0270	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The bottom line is that yesterday, in the context of our meeting with the members of the group, it was said that we would like to open a procedure discussion on this issue, but if you agree, let's do it with the group's recommendation. As a matter of fact, it is a gentlemanly decision that you and our friends from your party, the National Movement Party, and our Republican People's Party, as it is our decision to discuss today's proposal for the AK PARTY group. Look, dear lawmakers, Mr. Zozani, the Constitutional Court has already been appealed to on this matter. This is the same arrangement in Article 92 of the Constitution of 1961 under Article 66 of the Constitution (1). The Constitutional Court of Turkey says that the decisions taken by the Grand National Assembly are beyond the examination of the Constitutional Court. You can't appeal to the Constitutional Court, according to Article 92 of the Constitutional Court, this authority has been passed directly because it is a mandate given to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and since it is an authority used by the Turkish Grand National Assembly alone, it has been confirmed by the Constitutional Court. As a matter of fact, it is clear and clear that the decision regarding the deployment of Turkish Armed Forces to foreign countries, other countries, or the deployment of foreign armed forces in Turkey is the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, that authority is only in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and only in Turkey. In this regard, Mr. President, we have just expressed our objection before the procedural debate: there is no way to open the discussion of procedure on this issue. Why? All political parties will speak here, express their views. In accordance with their statements, you will express your views -- the Republican Party of Action, the Republican People's Party, the AK PARTY Group -- and the government will defend its thesis. Under the independent and free will of lawmakers in this regard, this statement will be accepted or rejected. As a matter of fact, there is no will above the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is clearly arranged in Article 92 of the Constitution, Article 130 of the Civil Code. The presidency was kind enough to open up this discussion of procedure. In fact, it's illegal to even open this discussion of procedure. The position of the presidency is correct, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0050par0276	I'm no good to anyone. I open it, it's criticized, it's not opened, it's criticized. Against you, Mr. Zozani Adil Zozani, I give you my word. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0051par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Elitaş, you've read the 92nd article of the Constitution, I think, and now I've read it once more. Article 92 of the Constitution is intended to send troops abroad, allowing foreign soldiers to deploy in Turkey. However, our claim of unconstitutionalism here is not based on this. You're taking the authority of an institution authorized by this Parliament by law, giving it to the Turkish Armed Forces, another non-attentive board. Article 124 of the Constitution defines the authority to carry out regulations, and Article 11 states clearly how to use these powers, who to use authority, and how to use them. In this regulation, for example, under the administration of the President of the Disaster and Emergency Management, he describes the tasks you have described in this thesis as the other possible risks, such as the other possible risk of mass migration. Therefore, only you can make the law and transfer the powers of an institution from that institution to another institution. You can't ignore a law made by this Parliament. Your explanations are not the answer. You're publicly taking authority from an institution and putting it here.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0052par0282	Mr. Zozani, this is the authority vested in the government. No way!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0051par0283	No, see, here -- you may not have read it, but I give you attention -- in the ordinance issued by the President of Afet and Emergency Management on the basis of Article 5902, under Article 6 (c), look at it, there is a statement in there called co-ordinating international and international humanitarian aid and intervention activities.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0053par0284	So we're acting against regulations here?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0051par0285	You're bringing this law in, ignoring this regulation, and you're setting it against the 92nd Amendment of the Constitution. However, by removing these statements from this statement, you can make them in line with Article 92 of the Constitution. In the current case, it violates Article 92 of the Constitution. Look, if you don't remember the 92nd article of the Constitution, if you don't know it, I'll read it myself, but there's not enough time. Secondly, let me remind you of Article 11 of Article 11 of Article 11 of what it says in Article 11: the fundamental rules of law linking constitutional provisions, legislation, executive and judicial bodies, administrative authorities, and other institutions and persons. Laws can't be unconstitutional, he says.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0054par0288	It's not the law.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0051par0289	Look, you take the authority of corporations and corporations, you give it to another agency without law enforcement.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0055par0291	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0051par0292	Are we now making a law by authorizing this motion?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0055par0293	Mr. Zozani, thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0051par0294	You give temporary authority, but you ignore the laws and duties of an institution, you take it and hand it over to another institution. So, Mr. President, it may have escaped your attention, yes, you're trying to do an unconstitutional procedure here right now. It's wrong, I'm expressing it.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0055par0296	Mr. Zozani, thank you for your time. Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu will speak in Polish, Kayseri MP. Here you go. (Applause from MHP rows)
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0056par0299	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, now, I believe there's some confusion in the concept. Concerning immigrants involved in the regulation, the matter is a different matter. The agency will take care of him. But here, a national threat is required to be authorized. That authority is granted to the government, and how will the government use it? He says he'll use it with the Turkish Armed Forces. Who controls the Turkish Armed Forces? The government controls it. Then we need to eliminate the confusion of the concept here. So, the state and behavior of immigrants who come to Turkey or their administrations, their transfers are not given directly to the Turkish Armed Forces, which are related to the prevention of immigrants who are coming here, or to the prevention of immigrants from there; it has nothing to do with the authority of those who have come here. Article 92 is all clear and clear: The authority to allow Turkish armed forces to be sent to foreign countries or foreign armed forces to be found in Turkey is not the authority of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, except for the declaration of war in which inter-national law is considered to be legal and the rules of international agreements or international courtesy that Turkey is a party to. Now, the problem here, I think, is that if the Turkish Armed Forces form a secure zone, it's supposed to be occupied, and I think it's because of that, some of the friends are suffering. There's a reaction from that. Now, if the Turkish Armed Forces are there to this day... we're considering that they've already left a case that should be done today... after the fact... after all the immigrants came to Turkey and the chaos, after the Turks were driven elsewhere... so let me be clear, where are the Turks from Aleppo to Bab orhut to Azaz today? There aren't any. It was occupied by others, and then cantons were created. The concern that those cantons will be eliminated today reveals that reaction. So here's what they think: there's the idea of building an independent Kurdistan, as in northern Iraq. So if this place is blocked, if this place is controlled by the Turkish Armed Forces, we can't do that, we have a target in it. That's all there is to it, and I pay all my respects.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0057par0304	Thank you. I'm about to go up against...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0058par0306	Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0057par0307	Wait a minute, we're having a conversation.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0059par0308	I didn't say anything to anyone. He'll react, I haven't said anything to anyone.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0058par0309	No, look, Mr. Halaçoglu, we don't think it means anything.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0057par0311	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0059par0312	I didn't pick on anyone, I didn't mention a name.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0057par0313	Say that again, please.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0060par0314	It's a false statement that the Armed Forces have reacted in such a way because they're concerned that they're going to create a buffer zone there somewhere, and I want to respond.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0061par0315	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0057par0316	Now, look, we're having a conversation.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0060par0317	However, according to Article 69, there is a taunt.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0057par0318	He didn't make a fuss about you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0062par0319	I've given my opinion.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0057par0320	On the information he gave, if you think there's a mistake, then I'll promise you an explanation after the procedural debate.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0063par0321	No, Mr. President, Mr. President, I don't... please, but... but Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0057par0322	Now, we're having a formal discussion, and there's been no bullying about you, Mr. Zozani. I listened very well, please...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0064par0323	I've been particularly careful not to get picked on.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0063par0324	Mr. President, what I don't...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0065par0325	He didn't mean you. He didn't say you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0063par0326	He may not have mentioned my name directly.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0066par0327	So...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0063par0328	But before that, I am the one who brought up the claim that this statement was contrary to Article 92 of the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0066par0329	Yeah...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0063par0330	And so, I'm the one who's being accused of bringing these allegations up for the following reasons.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0067par0331	It's already on the record, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0066par0332	He speaks his mind, Mr. Zozani. You may argue that it is contrary to the Constitution...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0063par0333	Mr. President, why are you so...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0066par0334	... another speaker may say that this arrangement is not contrary to the Constitution. There's nothing to tease about, please...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0068par0335	Mr. President, it's already on the record, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0063par0336	According to Article 69, we're talking about bullying...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0066par0337	Please, please... everyone has the freedom to express their thoughts freely here.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0063par0338	Mr. President, but... I'm not saying he shouldn't express his views, so let me express my opinion.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0066par0339	You didn't get picked on.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0063par0340	But there's an accusation in the middle, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0066par0341	You have spoken your mind, Mr. Halaçoglu has spoken his mind. Please...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0063par0342	Mr. President, you don't have to defend Mr. Halaçoglu. There's an accusation against me.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0066par0343	I'm not defending it at all. I'm trying to do the right thing. Please...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0063par0344	If you had done the right thing, you would have seen the breach of the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0066par0345	That's for me to decide. You won't lead me, please. I'd like to call Mr. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, the Istanbul MP, to the stand.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0069par0347	Mr. President, you don't know how to rule under the Civil Code, and if he insists on it, the General Assembly will approve; you don't know that you don't know how to run it, if he insists on it, you will submit it to the approval of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0070par0348	I'd like to request a report, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0066par0349	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0071par0351	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when I come to this bench, because of the lack of time, I'd like to express some of the issues that I can't express here on the basis of the opportunity to discuss this procedure. Dear MPs, in fact, Article 92 of the Constitution is seeking international legitimacy. It is possible to send troops to another country by the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in the case of international law. International law is limited in its legitimacy. First of all, there is either an attack on the country... in which case, that country has a right to self-defense, which does not require a Parliamentary decision. I just gave an example of the attack on Solomon Shah Station. In the event of an attack there, the Turkish Armed Forces have the opportunity to respond directly, to intervene without a parliamentary decision. For one thing, I don't think it's right that there's such a reason in the thesis, so it's not realistic. The second state of international law, considered legitimate, should be the United Nations Security Council's decision in case there is a threat to peace and security. If there is a threat to peace and security, then, of course, the United Nations Security Council has the opportunity to intervene, to use force. Our Constitution says war, but international law is no longer built on the concept of war. Since the establishment of the United Nations, the United Nations has the right to use force, not to say, but to use force, says the United Nations. The terms of that are clear. This statement, unfortunately, is a war thesis, not an ISIS thesis. Don't let anyone fool you. I've just given you a very brief piece of information about what other countries are doing, and I'd like to open it up a little bit more. I have a list of 22 countries, what are the countries doing in the international coalition? A total of six of these 22 countries operate air operations or support air operations, he says.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0072par0357	Who are they, who are they?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0071par0358	16 other countries don't have any black ops - I do humanitarian aid. He says, "I support logistics." He says, "I train the speakers." He says, "I support the media."
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0072par0359	Who are 16 countries, 16 countries?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0071par0360	For example, Spain says: I don't do military operations. There's already a reaction to everything in the U.S. public, and I can't get into it.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0072par0361	Syria is not the border of Spain.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0071par0362	Germany, again, stands for a similar motive. Saudi Arabia says I give you media support. The money's on me. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're ready to drive Mehmet-chik to overthrow Assad's administration, I see. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit02spe0073par0367	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Congressmans, there has been no change in my position. I'm still processing. I will open a meeting on the Prime Ministerial Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. On behalf of the groups, the government and the individual, I promise two members. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for groups and the government, ten minutes for individuals. I say the names of the members of the MPs who have taken over Tezkere: National Defence Minister Mr. Ismet Yilmaz on behalf of the government; Mersin MP Mr. Ertuğul Kürkcu on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Mersin MP Mehmet Şandir on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; İstanbul MP Osman Taney Korturkk and İstanbul MP Şul on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; İstanbul MP Osman Taney Önal. I'm gonna take a ten-minute break before we start talking.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0073par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 2nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll continue negotiations on the Prime Minister's thesis. The government is in place. The first word on the counter is for the government, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0074par0007	Mr. President, lawmakers, to prepare our country against other possible risks, such as mass migration and other possible risks, during the crisis and later possible developments, to effectively protect Turkey's interests, to take every necessary measures against the national security threat and any security risk under international law, to help track down attacks on our country from all terrorist organisations in Iraq and Syria, and to ensure that a rapid and dynamic policy will be followed in order not to meet any further conditions, according to the course of developments, by the direction of Turkey's security, and by means of the UN's armed forces will be sent to all countries, according to the process, and to ensure that a high-speed and dynamic policy will be followed by the threat to all countries and to all countries. I hereby salute Mr. President and the members of our House. Mr. President, as lawmakers begin my words, I thank all of our public officials who have been serving the citizens of this country day and night to save the lives of our country for the unity and peace of our country. Mr. President, lawmakers, the risks and threats to our national security along Turkey's southern land borders have greatly increased as a result of recent developments. Our country faces risks and threats from two neighbouring countries. The question is, have the risks and threats in this region increased or not? The decision from the United Nations Security Council has also shown that risks and threats have increased in this region. Turkey is at the top of the countries where these risks and threats affect the most. PKK terror elements exist, and the ISIS threat is obvious to both our southern neighbours. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been fighting a terrorist attack against the Turkish people, their security and their national unity for years. This threat has taken on a different dimension with recent developments in the region. It is international law that every country should take the necessary measures against terrorism. On this occasion, I would like to point out that terrorism is the greatest threat to international peace and security, regardless of what it may look like. The act of terror is a crime, and the perpetrator, no matter what his alibi, can never justify this crime, anywhere. Against this crime, it is a duty for United Nations member states to fight together and to cooperate in the fight against terrorism. Terror is spreading day after day in many parts of the world under the influence of intolerance and extremism. All countries must act jointly in their determination to see terrorism as an increasing threat. We should stress that terrorism cannot be associated with any religion, nation or civilization. All countries will take every precaution to fight terrorism in accordance with international law and especially universal human rights law, basic rights and freedoms and the rule of law. United Nations member states are obliged to prevent terrorists from moving from one country to other countries and to bring those involved in these actions to justice. Our neighbor, Iraq, has been the refuge of PKK terrorists for years. Iraq has not been able to prevent or prosecute these terrorists in its country for years, it's been in violation of international law. As Turkey, we are taking every precaution to ensure the end of the attacks on our country by terrorist organizations in Iraq. This thesis is part of these measures. Since the first day we began our mission as a government, we have been conducting a comprehensive study to eliminate the threat of terrorism; we want to end terrorism, the problems that terrorism abuses, the problems of the region in one place. While fighting terrorism, on the other hand, we raised the bar of democracy, expanded freedoms. 77 million brothers and sisters, knowing that we are Turkey together, we have put the National Union and Brotherhood Project into practice. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been carried out by the Turkish Armed Forces as part of a prior warrant, air exploration flight, artillery fire and ground operations. The only aim of the countermeasure is the terrorists who attack this country, and after that it will continue to do so. Terror is the common concern of our entire nation. Since the beginning of the war on terror, the top priority of all governments has been to fight terrorism. The success we will achieve in solving this common problem will be the success of our country. In this process, which includes multidimensional and comprehensive measures to strengthen our democracy, military measures are necessary and deterrent measures will complete the whole approach to our fight against terrorism. Our ultimate goal is to build a trust environment where we'll never need such arguments again. In this direction, the solution process, which has been launched by our government and has now become a state policy, continues in a strong and decisive way. We're going to solve this problem with more democracy, more freedom, more prosperity, more civil rights and more law without compromising the fight against terrorism. By continuing this process, which each part of society has, we will continue with determination to implement and perform the necessary new methods needed to ensure that the solution is immediate. Mr. President, lawmakers, following the actions launched by ISIS terror organization in the Mosul countryside and surrounding provinces on June 5, 2014, the full control of Mosul (Musul) on 10 June launched a difficult process in almost every area, especially security in Iraq. Following the attack on ISIS and related elements, the Kurdish Regional Government of Iraq has controlled the controversial areas that have problems with the Central Iraqi Administration, particularly Kirkuk. With the ISIS attacks, the Iraqi Army lost considerable personnel, and the Iraqi army's large numbers of weapons and ammunition were seized by ISIS as the troops left their positions in this region. Mosul, Anbar, Selahattin, and Kerkuk have established the area of ISIS's terrorist organization in some parts of Diyala. The capture of 31 Turkish drivers on June 10, 2014, the capture of the Musul consulate by members of the ISIS terrorist organization on June 11, 2014, made the threats from Iraq clear. Events in Iraq have led to the refugee movement for our country, as in Syria. As a matter of fact, the number of Ezidis who fled the ISIS attacks to our country reached 22,250 · Global Voices by the end of September. In the future, there is also the possibility that the weapons abandoned by the Iraqi army and the military supplies given to Iraq, especially from European countries, will once again fall into the hands of terrorist organisations and pose a threat to the Kurdish Regional Government of Iraq and Turkey. Progress in Iraq, conflict and human tragedy in the region have revealed the need to develop a more complete and comprehensive strategy. Unless the international community takes a decisive step, the region will be dragged into a wider conflict. While the United Nations Security Council has confirmed the independence and territorial integrity of Iraq and Syria, the United Nations Security Council has urged all countries of the United Nations against the terrorist activities of terrorist organisations such as ISIS and the Al-Nusra front to take all necessary measures to combat terrorism and extremism under its responsibilities, under the framework of the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1373 and international law. The process, which began with the NATO Wales Summit of September 5th and the multilateral meetings in which the threat of Iraq and ISIS was dealt with in detail, continued with meetings held in Paris on September 11th in Jedde (September 15th). The meetings, which our country is participating in, are stated to be carried out with the international community. It has been agreed that the fight against ISIS's presence in Iraq, the support of the new government in Iraq, and that international efforts in this direction should be carried out on the axis of political, security and humanitarian dimensions. Mr. President, lawmakers, according to U.N. data, nearly 7,000 people throughout Iraq have been killed since New Year's. 1,800,000 people have been displaced. One of the worst affected by the security crisis in Iraq following the attacks launched by ISIS and its supporters in Mosul (Sysul) in June was the Turkmen. Tens of thousands of our successors, Erbil, Kerkuk, and Duhok have migrated to southern provinces, as well as to Najaf, Kerbala, and Baghdad. ISIS has also taken over Sincar district, where our relatives who had to emigrate from Telafer (Telafer) in early August took refuge. Turkey helps all who are victimized by ISIS from their place in Iraq without exception. TİKA and Kızılay have been providing humanitarian aid to all Iraqi people, including Turkmen who were affected by the conflict, starting in June, when the security crisis in Iraq escalated. As of September 29, 2014, 277 trucks of humanitarian aid supplies, including food, beds, tents, cleaning supplies and medicines, were sent to Duhok, Kerkuk, Sincar, Zaho, Erbil, Telkaif, Telafer. The Duhok was also provided with 57 trucks and the housing centre infrastructure. Mr. President, members of parliament, a team from AFAD is working in Zaho. A team from Turkey is working in Erbil. The AFAD, which established a tent city of 5,000 people in Zaho Deberun, continues its efforts to set up two camps in Zaho Bersiva, with 10,000 people, with 20,000 people in Duhok Sharya. Our institutions for providing humanitarian aid are also co-ordinated, especially for those who migrate to the provinces south of Iraq, including Najaf, Kerbela, and Baghdad. Guaranteed rights and interests in the framework drawn with the Iraqi Constitution and the security of Turkmen, the founding element of Iraq, Turkey is one of the essential elements of Iraq's policy. It is vital for us to protect the interests of our Turkmen brothers and to address the negative effects of the crisis on our relatives in this country. As always, our country will be the biggest supporter of the Turkmen community in the coming period. Mr. President, members of parliament, the conflict in Syria is in its fourth year. The risks and threats posed by the conflict in terms of regional security are already increasing and the impact on the human situation in Syria is growing. The security threats caused by conflict are multidimensional. Such threats continue by increasing their presence, given that the regime has not hesitated to use any means of attack, including chemical weapons, against the public, and that a determined international response to this has not yet been established. Chemical weapons use by the regime was confirmed in the United Nations Research Mission final report on December 12, 2013 and has been registered as a serious violation of international law. Despite efforts by the UN and the Organization for Anti-Space of Chemical Weapons officials, no commitments made by the Syrian regime to the international community, including the destruction of all chemical stocks in Syria have been fulfilled. The latest report by the UN International Independent Syrian Research Commission has been noted that the regime uses chlorine gas in eight different regions. Likewise, the report released on September 10th of the Data Collection Mission within the Organization for the Protection of Chemical Weapons confirmed that chlorine gas was systematically and repeatedly used in Syria in 2014. ISIS's attacks and the siege of the regime against the people continue. ISIS's achievement of weapons and supplies from the Iraqi army and carrying this material to Syria have increased its effectiveness. As a result of this increase in ISIS's power, some radical organisations are also concerned about joining ISIS. The regime is the sole responsibility for continued chaos, instability and destruction in Syria. The regime, which takes advantage of international society's inertia, continues to suppress the legitimate demand and expectations of the people through violence; massacres, including heavy bombings, are being used against the public by chemical and ballistic missiles. The number of ballistic missiles used so far is 421. Recent developments in Syria have given the country a new and terrifying dimension to human tragedy. Human pressure has reached an alarming point. The regime deprives more than 250,000 people of food and medicine across the country; it commits crimes against humanity by applying a strategy to people to die of hunger or surrender. Half the population, about 10,800,000 people are desperate for help. The number of displaced persons has reached 6.5 million, the number of Syrians who have taken refuge in neighbouring countries has reached 3 million. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are the notion of generosity, other than others, generosity, philanthropy, and ensarmity that makes these saintly nations different from others. There's no one in this land who can tell us what's wrong with the fire in the neighborhood. Our people know that being human starts with thinking about someone else. Our nation never turned down those who came to its door, but its door was always open, and he took it under his protection, and he saw the service of man as a service to Hakk. With that thought, our people have infiltrated every refugee and every refugee. Throughout history, there have been defectors to Turkey, collectively or individually, for various reasons. This country has always been a peaceful island for the oppressed, for the displaced, for the occupied. That's how it was yesterday, and that's how it is today. One of the Hungarians who took refuge in the Ottoman Empire during the period of Yıldırım Aktıt was one of them -- in the 1800s Hungarian Prince Kossuth (1850) and in the Eastern Turkic Government Secretary-General Joseph Borzecki (1850) -- who was the great grandfather of Nazim Hikmet. Again, not just people, but people came to Turkey. The Jews who fled the Spanish persecution caused the creation of the Aşiska Turks, the Azerbaijans, the Afghans, the White Russians, the Georgians and the Crimean Tatars, the Uygurs after the Chinese occupation, the Arabs who came to Turkey during the Second World War, the Kurds who fled from the persecution of Saddam We are already hosting over 1,300,000 Syrians who are already housed in our country's shelters and are living in cities on their own. From 18 September 2014, with the latest developments, I am adding the number from the Şanlıurfa Suruç region to our country - 163,208 Kurdish refugees from Syria have entered. According to the AFAD report dated 29 September 2014, 220,623 were hosted at 22 shelters in 10 cities in our Syrian country, and more than 1 million people remained in various parts of our homeland. In this context, our spending has reached $4 billion. As part of our humanitarian mission, we're doing everything we can for the people of the region who are in a position to take refuge in our country. In 2013, Turkey was third in the world after the United States and Britain as a quantity, compared to national income among all countries in emergency and humanitarian aid. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I will.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0075par0037	Mr. Secretary, I'm giving you a plus three-minute extension, which is valid in all speakers. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0074par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. And I'm gonna keep talking short. The humanitarian aid activities show a human-focused approach to the coming asylum seekers, regardless of religion, language, race, or sect. However, let us regret to inform you that despite our efforts, the actions of those groups who are used to exploit everything continue to interfere with these aid activities, to attack public officials who are helping them, and to disturb the peace of society. Only a friend of ours told me what was done to the relics? Over 20,000 Ezidi came, and we showed camp in Mardin, and the Arabs stayed here. They didn't want to stay by themselves. In our faith, there was no question of the identity of the underdog. We waited for those who came to Turkey to save their lives to stay where they were shown. However, these are the Arabs who refused to stay with the Arabs who came to save their lives, so we are now opening up 20,000 additional settlements in the Mardin area. Mr. President, lawmakers, again, support for the Syrian opposition supported by the Syrian people will prevent extremist groups from becoming the center of attraction and will prevent the abuse of the current situation. The growing activity of extremist groups in Syria, especially ISIS, poses a direct and serious threat to national security. These groups that feed on chaos and the policies of the regime are constantly expanding their field of activity. ISIS currently controls three border crossings on the Turkish-Syrian border on the Syrian side. The presence of ISIS in the Suleiman Shah Respect Station, 37km from the Turkish-Syrian border, poses a clear threat to our national security. It is our government's duty to protect Süleyman Shah Respect Station, an integral part of its Turkish motherland. The Republic of Turkey will show no hesitation in fulfilling that responsibility. Mr. President, good lawmakers, our foreign policy is based on law, rule of law, justice and peace. Justice is an obstruction of persecution. And from whomsoever comes a wrong, it shall be wronged, and from whomsoever it is from whomsoever it is from, it shall be averted. And peace is better and better. The aim of this thesis is to reduce the negative impact of the conflict that is happening at our borders. We've opened our doors to people who are at the point of losing everything because of the war, who are barely able to save their lives. However, by opening our doors and embracing those who came to save your life, it appears that this issue cannot be resolved. While a large number of the people are under pressure in Syria, it is not Turkey's place for a democratic Turkey to be present with the international community while those under pressure are jointled with the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0076par0045	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0074par0046	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, when I put an end to this statement, our House will make the final decision, and we expect support from our parliament, because with this support, hopefully, Turkey will side with those who are pro-democratic in this region, those who respect human rights, those who respect the nations. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0076par0049	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0077par0050	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0076par0051	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0077par0052	In his speech on the stand, the Minister says that some policies are state policy. By correctly identifying the government device, I feel it is necessary to use this definition in its proper place.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0076par0053	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0077par0054	Is it ignorance, or is it the pressure of the state channel, by definition? Mr. President, just a moment...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0076par0055	I'm listening.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0077par0056	Now, by taking over the majority of the executive and legislature, we're going to make some decisions...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0076par0057	Mr. Tallermak, do you want to make a statement, or do you want to make a statement about bullying?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0077par0058	Sir? What do I want to do?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0076par0059	Do you want to make a statement, or do you want to make a statement about bullying?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0077par0060	I want to make something right. So there's a political party here...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0076par0061	Then, please, take your seat, and I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0077par0062	Okay.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0076par0063	Please, just a minute...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0077par0064	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0076par0065	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0077par0068	It's a very wrong term to call a policy that even the Chief of Staff of the Constitutional Institutions of the State has no knowledge, a policy that a number of groups in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have not participated in, a government policy in the executive body. This state is our state, and we're part of this state, and we don't approve of this opening policy. So, this policy is government policy, this policy is not state policy, this state is our state. I'm asking them to know and to use these definitions correctly from now on. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0076par0070	Thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi, are you going to make a statement as well? I'll give you a minute at your place. Come in, you have one minute.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0078par0074	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have stated that the government's policy is a state policy. When you say state policy, it's not just about government, it's about opposition parties, all the institutions of the state, it's about the whole nation. Such a policy requires that the Chief of Staff, the relevant bureaucrats, the Foreign Minister, come not only to the government but also to the opposition parties as the main opposition party. Mr. Secretary of Defense was supposed to give his speech after the political party groups, because there was such a suggestion. I said no. Let him speak first and let him know. Look, even there, the government doesn't have the idea of giving information, but it plans to speak last to respond to the speech of opposition parties. It's just a government policy, and it's not supposed to say that, sir, it's a policy of the Davutoglu-Erdoğan duo to lead Turkey into adventure, to war. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0079par0077	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mersin MP Ertugrul Kürkcı will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0080par0083	Mr. President, we'd like your president to provide a service for the MP in accordance with the principle of equality of the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0079par0084	Mr. Furry, I'd like to ask you something.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0080par0085	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0079par0086	If there's something wrong with your voice, we can turn up the mic, if there's a disease?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0081par0087	He wants a prompter!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0080par0088	It's all right, it's all right. We're fine, we're fine, we're fine.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0079par0089	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0080par0090	I want a teleprompter, not a microphone.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0079par0092	If you had told us earlier, we would have done it. Here, I'll reboot your time.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0082par0094	I hope so when he gets to Çankaya.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0083par0095	Prompter's cheap, what's it got to do with Chankaya?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0082par0096	You wish.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0084par0097	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0083par0098	Dear friends, as we talk about this thesis here today, tens of thousands of people in Kobane are fighting to protect their rights, their lives, their honor, their honor, against the vigilantes who surround their environment. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party, I salute those who defend their rights, honors, and humanity of all people a thousand times. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Unfortunately, our thesis does not defend the rights and lives of the people of Kobane as much as the Prime Minister identifies against ISIS by defending this thesis. It's undefensible, but we're told that it's an opportunity for solidarity with the people of Kobane to fight ISIS to get us to vote for this thesis. We're going to examine the thesis step by step, and we'll see that each element is an argument against international law, contrary to the Constitution, contrary to democratic needs that have arisen in the region, that only one and only one regional sovereignty requires us to use troops for a regional show of power. And for that, the ISIS plague is a means of doing so. A matter of the government's real name is ISIS, not until President Barack Obama of the United States made his voice. When the government was now in straits, we had such a problem. The Council of Ministers of 2013 is applying for a decision. This Council of Ministers decision consists of hundreds of institutions, institutions and links to freezing bank accounts of the Islamic State of Iraq and Damascus, which are counted among Al Qaeda components. Neither the name of ISIS has been mentioned in the 2013 paper, nor any document of the government mentions a threat to the government. So don't let the government try to tell us this in vain now. You were not taking any measures against ISIS, you were not continuing any security measures against ISIS; you were with ISIS, you were crossing their borders, you were watching the massacres against Kurds in Syria, against Turks, against Arabs, and you were silently watching them recruit troops in Turkey. Now, when the United States mobilized the United Nations Security Council, you started humming something called IND (ISID) but you brought this thesis here on grounds that have consolidated the entire issue on ISIS, contrary to the decision made by the Security Council, and contrary to the decision of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly today. You're saying there's a Damascus regime because of our Tezkere. You're saying that the PKK is the reason for our protest. You're saying that there's El Nusra, Al Qaeda. You're saying that there's a PYD and YPG who organize resistance in Kobane, and there are those who fight for it. You don't really want or intend to start a fight against ISIS, you have no such purpose or goal. You're bringing this statement to our attention, you're terrorizing the resistance in Kobane, but in cocktails, you say that if the Democratic Party of the People does not approve of this thesis, it will support ISIS. You have supported ISIS, and you continue to support ISIS. Why? The international action, the coalition's decision of the United Nations Security Council is based on nothing but ISIS. You are basing the legitimacy of this thesis on this decision. Shall I read it? That won't be necessary. He counts only ISIS, the elements related to it, Al Qaeda, Al Nusra. We listened to the minister here, and he interprets this decision as a general counterterrorism decision. That's why we're fighting all kinds of terrorism. There's no such thing, only ISIS is the reason for this decision, only ISIS is the force that is identified as a target. You're saying that you're only asking for one fifth of the pressure on ISIS by dispersing the targets of the struggle, intervention, four to five. So you're not sincere, you're not serious, and you're not serious, and you're also blackmailing those who defend the rights of the Kurdish people, who defend the rights of Turkmen, Arabs, and those who say, "This has nothing to do with this." You're ISIS. You've acted with ISIS until now, you can't hide it, you can't hide it, there are thousands of evidence. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Just yesterday, a national television broadcaster, İMC TV, filmed and published that ISIS elements went from Suruç to Kobane. The Prime Minister will investigate this, Mr. Prime Minister, hopefully you'll find it; you don't have to look very much, but start looking for ISIS among your officers who stamp documents with the ISIS seal. Dear friends...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0085par0107	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0083par0108	I'm screaming for you to hear.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0085par0109	You don't have to yell, we hear you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0086par0110	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0083par0111	In fact, what's intended by this thesis is that when we look at the nature of the thesis, it seems very well that it's a regional sovereignty, a military action plan that is now set up with the need to turn the situation into an opportunity when international and local sensibilities are amassing itself as a state of the region. Look, we're no longer authorized to send troops into the country in a defined manner. Starting from the day when this dissertation passed through these foreign countries, the government could send troops wherever it pleased; it could send them to Lebanon, send them to Jordan, send them to Cyprus. You're going to say: "There's also a principle decision. " But it's not a principle decision. We're taking this notice out. Why should we make such a vague decision, and what is the power of military power in Turkey? That's vague, too. What state will be stationed in Turkey as a military, military of which foreign country, and internationally? But apart from this thesis, Turkey is also determined to train and arm part of the fighting forces in Syria, as well as to the media sources published by journalists close to the Prime Minister. Now, is there or isn't there an international law? You're going to train an army in Turkey against a neighbour who you don't declare war, who still remains a member of the United Nations according to international law, who continues to be a member of all conflicts, despite all the dire human rights violations inside, who continues to be part of international law? Then you'll send it there, you'll make it fight, and then you'll say, "This statement has been passed by international law." No, my friends. In that respect, it is against the 92nd Amendment of the Constitution, which is not the legal state of international law that is being here. The decision made by the United Nations Security Council has no ground operations, only air strikes; its purpose is clear, its aim is clear, its scope is clear. Everything else is about to be tied to political decisions. You're trying to solve a political issue in a military way. In fact, I don't even have to prove what I'm saying is true. I'd like to draw your attention to what the President said in his speech at the House yesterday. At the opening of the Assembly, the late Turgut Özal gave a speech on September 1, 1990, referring to him President: It is unthinkable for us to push a shy, undecided, waiting for others to decide. Otherwise, it is clear that we will lose the possibility of being a country that has an impact on the interests of Turkey. • I mean, the President says that the strategy of Ozal is actually true. Remember, he didn't even get a 3 or a 1, Ozal. Now this is the great statesman. Now, do you wonder what Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan said about the great statesman on January 30, 1991? Let me read to you: To help the U.S.A. by stating that Turkey obeys the United Nations resolution for a war that has been deflected from its purpose is to deceive the nation. It is a grave event that Ozal wants to confront the majority of the nation and bring Turkey into war by constantly violating the Constitution and laws. It is the rule of law that bases in Turkey cannot be used except for NATO purposes. These bases should only be used for defence against future attacks from communist countries, but in today's practice, these bases were given to the United States, not NATO. It goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Which one should we believe now? Does the attitude in 1991 represent the opinion of Mr. Erdoğan internationally, or what he said today? If he sees that day's Ozal any other way today, at least he's expected to say it out of respect for the memory of Ozal. But if a person changes a position this fast in 12 years, he's actually doing what he says about Ozal himself. Yes, it's in the line of great states, but in competition with them, it's about a takeover battle in the Middle East. What Mr. Davutoglu and Mr. Erdogan really want to do after taking the authority is to use military vehicles and military resources to complete what they call "restoration." So the intention is that restoration isn't just about getting some of the functions of the state back to the way it used to be. The political historical equivalent of the restoration is to return to the situation before a revolution, where the Ottoman State has been reintegrated, to return Turkey to its former Indian state, to search for dominance and influence, to show flags here, to bring soldiers here. And why would you do that? To do this with a narrow, non-realisting, non-profit expansion goal of society, which has nothing to do with the interests of the nation. Turkey shouldn't go on such an adventure; it's the beginning of it, and ISIS is the only reason for it. Kobane's support is not even on the horizon after he has declared the Kobane defense an enemy, a terrorist. Therefore, dear friends, this thesis is really an example of Davutoglu expressing Erdogan's foreign policy, world policy, world behavior and goals. So, should we do nothing, do nothing, watch what's going on? Of course not. Of course we're not just watching. First and foremost, we have to support the peoples of Iraq and Syria politically. Turkey's Grand National Assembly must open its moral support for democracy, freedom, equal rights, women's rights, secular education, a new regime based on human rights. It's quite possible to have a relationship with the party from the party, and it's not necessarily, and it's not necessarily necessary to use the military. But it will be said that there is a crisis in Kobane, and you say that you should actually intervene here. Yes, it is true, it is necessary to intervene, but we demand that the intervention be as follows: First, all support and moral protection measures for ISIS must be put to rest. Turkey must be stopped from becoming a fighting station country, a country that has power over ISIS. Secondly, the borders must be contained immediately. Borders must be controlled to prevent logistics and personnel passage of people from their homes, not to supervise the poor emigrants, but to prevent them from moving out of their homes in an aggressive, violent aggression that has led to these migrations. Solidarity with Kobane is very important because it is up to us to explain to the government itself where Kobane is based in terms of the government's solution strategy. I'm telling you from today: if Kobane falls, if we face a massacre here, the Kurds of Turkey and the Kurds of Iraq and the Kurds of Iran will rise. Can you do something like this: On the one hand, you're going to declare a power that you're negotiating with them on the other hand as terrorists; you're going to watch a people on the other side of the border where you say you're trying to take new measures for their rights, and after they've been slaughtered, we've actually wanted a solution in Turkey, but unfortunately we couldn't do anything on the other side of the border because we don't have a thesis. And the Kurds will say, "We're walking hand in hand." Friends, if you're having a vision like this, give up hope. If you haven't read it, I'd like to make it very clear to you that Abdullah Ocalan, who met with our delegation yesterday, said in terms of the relationship between Kobane and the negotiation process: the process, which we have managed to bring to this point with seriousness and great sacrifice, has become directly linked to the speed and seriousness of the steps that will be taken. As a matter of fact, the whole world is witnessing what a violent organization such as ISIS, which we can express as the JITEM of the Middle East, can do. The siege of Kobane is far more than just a city siege, not only will it aim for the democratic gains of the Kurdish people, but Turkey will also lead to a new coup. If this assassination attempt reaches its goal, it will end the process and lay the foundations of a new and lasting coup. Anyone who wants to get the Kobane and Rojava thing right should understand this reality. I urge everyone in Turkey who doesn't want the process and the journey of democracy to collapse to take care of Kobane with the necessary seriousness and responsibility. It is also seen that there is a tide in the state between those who are still focused on a solution and those who seek help from the shallows of destruction. It is vital that those who favor the solution develop the process and the problems in time and the active responses. With that dignity, I urge everyone to embrace our democratic journey and our struggle for humanity, reminding once again that the process is an inextricable one. So, my dear friends, don't think that the passing of our notice is the only way we can see Kobane. If not, we will not see Kobane. Don't turn to us, and don't try to say such things to us. We're not begging anyone. You either do something or you don't do something, in accordance with justice, right, democracy, freedom of the peoples and the right to govern themselves, to decide their own destiny. No one will kneel, beg, give up their rights, nor will they be willing to raise their hand to the Constitution, international agreements, human rights, and a dissolution of regulations. We're not going to make such an honourable choice. The people of Kobane will decide their own fate. Peoples' Democratic Party MPs will spend the holiday with the people of Kobane. We are willing to share the same fate with them, we are ready, but we will never, never give up our call for democratic republic and democratic autonomy in the face of tyranny, in the face of violence, never, ever, our own freedom goals, our will to live together, our will to live together, our calling for a future for the whole of Turkey. All other peoples of Turkey have no use for this adventure. This is where I address all the people of Turkey, all the people whose sons are military age: Do not say yes, do not support a futual adventure through the blood of your sons, through the blood of their sons, through their lives. The future of our people, the future of the world, the future of the Middle East, is in the resistance of Kobane. Take over Kobane, take over Kobane, and you will surely do your children the greatest good you will ever do to yourself. Long live the brotherhood of the peoples! Long live the salvation of Kobane!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0087par0129	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandir will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0088par0133	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. And I wish that the year of the new legislature of Turkey would be a blessing, that it would be a success, that it would be good for all of our political party groups. I pray to Almighty God to all people and to the citizens of the PKK who lost their lives because of the civil war in Syria and Syria. Dear MPs, we meet today by combining the provisions of the 3rd Government against the attacks of the PKK terror organization feeding from Iraq against the reflections of the civil war in Syria. The reason for the thesis is extremely important. According to the thesis, the developments in the region and the possible consequences of them pose serious risks and threats to the future of our nation and our country, according to the information of the state's relevant institutions. Furthermore, PKK terror elements waiting to attack Turkey north of Iraq continue to exist as a threat. This is the determination made according to the thesis, so first of all, with recent developments, the future and security of our country and our nation is threatened and threatened. In order to develop and follow enough measures in time and in order to follow a dynamic policy, the government is required to make all decisions and to be granted a constitutional mandate to carry out its requirements. We, the National Movement Party, feel that the government should be allowed to do so for these reasons. It would be more than giving the AKP government a new mandate, a task, a responsibility. The National Movement Party's support for government statements stems from our national sensitivities. If our government's sovereignty, our nation's future is threatened and threatened, then the National Party of Action -- for us, everyone -- shouldn't be a big deal about it. If there's a chance of an attack on our country, it's a national defense to resist it with all our means. To us, foreign policy and national security are more of a state policy than a government policy, and it's a national issue for us to take care of the state and the nation. This attitude does not mean that we approve and support the policies of the AKP government, that the government has responsibilities in the creation and preventing incidents in the region, and that the government's caution is sensitive; this is the meaning of the support of the National Movement Party. According to us, this statement is a public confession that the AKP's hunger for PKK separatist terror, which has completed its 12 years, the negotiations with İmralı, the solution process is a process of resolution, and the developments in the Middle East have not been read correctly so far, the document is the document. Dear MPs, as the National Movement Party, we say and say that the AKP government's foreign policy understanding and practices are wrong and will pose great dangers for the future of the region and our country. We're also making some suggestions. For example, Mr. President, on October 7, 2008, the security zone should be established. Closer, even closer, on August 6, 2012, to minimise threats to our country, the security generation in the form of a crescent was to be built and executed in order to contain the eastern tip of Afrin. As well as many other suggestions, set up a secure area. You did not take our proposal into consideration. And why you didn't take it, why you didn't take it, and you didn't give it to us or to the public. Today, after so many deaths, you're trying to get your allies to accept your offer for a buffer zone or a no-fly zone. Dear lawmakers, see, we insisted that PKK had attacked our country to divide our country and our nation and to build a Kurdish state in the region, that it would never give up its weapons, that it should be fought in the language it understands, not in negotiations with the terrorist organization that it understands, that the initial negotiation process was a demolition project, that separatizing terrorism could not be ended, that there was separatism, and that crime was committed in the region; you accused us of eating from blood. At the beginning of the Syrian events, notice that the instability of Syria will bring disaster to the region and to our country. We said, "You have accused us of not understanding your policy, you have accused us of failing to understand it." For God's sake, at this point today, are you conducting a crisis of conscience? 13 years alone in power, then still talk about the threat of PKK terrorism, dream of finding a political solution to the so-called Kurdish problem, make talks with the head of terrorism, negotiate with PKK, then come here, and the PKK remains a threat. Do you have the right? I wonder what history will remember you by, believe me. So I'm asking you, this is an opportunity, your daughter-in-law, to tell us what you understand about this Kurdish problem here, Mr. Government, Mr. Prime Minister. Our Kurdish noble citizens have a different problem than our other citizens, but we don't know if this Parliament does? If the problem was our citizens' problems, shouldn't you be negotiating and resolving with our citizens and their political and civil organisations? Since you have negotiated with the PKK to resolve the Kurdish problem, does this not mean that you have started a solution process to resolve the Kurdish problem that the PKK dictated? Dear MPs, what is the content of the Kurdish problem that the PKK has raised? In order to establish a Kurdish state, we will build a Kurdish state in the capital building of Erukh, which attacked Turkey thirty years ago. Wasn't it the PKK that wrote? Isn't that why the PKK slaughtered the babies in the arson, thousands, tens of thousands of people, especially our Kurdish noble citizens? Yes, what is what you call the Kurdish problem, and how are you going to solve it, come and tell it honestly here? If, as some say, the problem is the democracy of our citizens, why are you seeking the solution in negotiations with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)? There are valuable scholars among you. Do you not know that if you define a difference in subjection as a problem, what you find is a scientific reality that separates society and divides society? You solved the Kurdish problem, how are you going to solve the problems of other ethnic groups, other differences? In the globalized world, who would benefit from identifying differences and dissociating society? Isn't it a necessity to live together in the context of an equal citizen with all our differences, to be one state, one nation in the common denominator of one country, to strengthen our union with common future and brotherhood law, after all the pain that has been around us? Turkey and the Turkish nation must act accordingly. Twelve years later, while still complaining about the existence of PKK elements threatening Turkey in northern Iraq, do you have the right to discuss the solution process? Aren't you contradicting yourself? What gives you the right to express the solution as a state policy? Is this state yours alone? There is no Mr. Prime Minister here, to be addressed to Mr. Prime Minister, in the Strategic Deepness book, Mr. Prime Minister says: "It's like a river with a high, rapid flow... that makes it look like a change in the world. Your claim to transform change and transformation in today's world by changing Turkey. Mr. Prime Minister, did your deep strategy and the vision you set for this -- in conclusion -- today, unfortunately, in Syria, Iraq, Palestine, in short, prevent human death and destruction in the entire Middle East? Has he finished becoming a threat to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0089par0149	The Middle East, who is unaware of us, said that leaves do not move in the Middle East.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0088par0150	Dear MPs, I don't underestimate the resources the government provides for Syrian asylum seekers, but I thank you on behalf of the Syrian Turkmen in particular for the political will that makes this decision every time. You know that, but unfortunately you're bragging about what you're doing by making me witness to the criticisms taken by our party's spokesman against your policies. But to be big, to be strong was to keep these people in their homes, to protect them, to protect them, to protect them? Today, a million and a half in our country, with the Arab, with the Turkmen, with the Kurdish refugees... not the refugees, but the government's attention, not refugees, asylum seekers. Disgraceful description. It's not appropriate to put people in this position and then brag about it, Mr. Prime Minister. Were you able to protect Telafer, Kerkuk, Aleppo, Hummus, and could you prevent ISIS? I ask: Is the Middle East region better today than the day you came to power? You may ask, are we responsible for what happened? You may be right, but put your hand on your conscience. Mr. Prime Minister, as a result of today's events in our country and in our region, you couldn't at least predict that it would come to this. You have to accept that. In your statement, again, you failed to make the description of the Middle East from the Strategic Deepness book, the description of the Middle East, the explanation, the understanding, the meaning, and therefore, the manipulation. You'll have to admit that today with this thesis. I'm afraid nothing you've foreseen or expressed has come true. You embraced Barzani, and you had secret discussions with the Imran, under the supervision of strangers, behind closed doors, and now the PKK terror elements continue in the north of Iraq. In fact, you reproach your European friends for not supporting Turkey's fight against the PKK. You said, "Esad will leave." Did he leave? If only Basra would leave after she's been devastated! 200,000 people died, there's no way to know the number of wounded. Ten million people were torn out of their homeland. The cities of Damascus, Hummus, Aleppo are in ruins. Syria was destroyed under the attack of a tyrant who lost his legitimacy and brutally slaughtered his own people. What could we do, what could you do, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Davutoglu? A friend tells pain, Mr. Hodja. Your predictions weren't right, your policies were wrong, and in the end, you were forced to invite the Crusader army back into our territory, and that's the expression of the job. The Muslims won't forgive you. How quickly did you forget what was done in Iraq, Libya, Bosnia? I truly regret that you have fallen into this situation and that you have brought Turkey to this state as a friend. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid your attitude based on the assumption that Beker Assad will soon be destroyed like the others has brought today's destruction. The work of the tyrant and the projects of the global forces has been laid out. In the Middle East, where there is no subject, there is no weight and no response in the Middle East for a policy that has an uncertain point. What is the subject of the state of the Republic of Turkey, the government, in the Middle East? I'm not questioning good faith, but your prediction was wrong, your strategy was based on the wrong Middle East description. Your claim to democratize the Middle East region -- unfortunately, you're wrong -- is not possible. As the National Movement Party, we want the democratisation of the Middle East countries. We say the Syrian people are worthy, but they have to do it with their own internal dynamics. We've seen many times before and in many parts of the world that external altars, foreign interventions will bring chaos, not democracy. Unfortunately, the Middle East truth -- I repeat -- you didn't consider it or read it correctly. Mr. Secretary, the Prime Minister says it's the theory of Rymland. You can't identify the Middle East with this. If you look at the Middle East as a state of the Republic of Turkey, ignoring the history of the Middle East and the fact that the Turkish nation and its acquish in this history, you will be left at the gates today to be subcontracted into the projects of other forces, other global forces, unfortunately. In my opinion, to understand what happened, to make sense of it, to manipulate it, you have to use it in time and space integrity. Time is the first quarter of a new century, a time, a time when the world is reshaped. It's the Middle East; it's Turkish and Muslim geography; it's a geography with the eyes of the Christian, Crusader West for a thousand years. Your policies against this geography had to be really true. Of course, democracy is the reality of time, but democracy can be lived in communities that have completed nationalization. Dear lawmakers, Arabism is a race, not a nation. You will not find a nation in the Middle East. So you can't build, you can't maintain, you can't build, you can't build, you can't build, you can't build, you can't build, you can't build, you can't systemize, you can't build, you can't build, you can't build, you can't build. If you try to build it, there'll be bloodshed, chaos. Yes, standing behind democracy is a virtue, but no one must attempt to pay such a heavy price. To identify the differences of societies, to promote this dissolution in the name of freedom, in the name of human rights, is a classic hegemony method of imperialism. Unfortunately, you don't even realize you're dragging Turkey into this. Global forces have sought to maintain their domination by breaking people together in every period of history and throughout the world with their particulate-yute policies. Dear lawmakers, the civil war in Syria has become a national security issue for Turkey, beyond the fact that today there is a regional sectal war, even global forces involved. The neighboring fire has begun to burn Turkey and our people. Today is the Middle East apocalypse. The biggest victims of the Syrian and Iraqi civil war, the valued MPs, are Turkmen. In particular, Humus -- a man who once traveled in Hummus -- is not a Humusian if he does not speak Turkish. The Turkish city, the entire Turkmen, was disbanded. Aleppo controls the countryside, Turkishmen cities and villages of ISIS. Nearly 200,000 Turkishmen have taken refuge in Turkey; more than 1 million Turkmen have been expelled from their villages, their homes. Other peoples of Syria are suffering the same suffering, and the Iraqi Turks are more miserable than that. I'd like to ask these questions and listen to the answers: Dear government, will this address the problems of the Syrian and Iraqi Turkmen? Will there be a secure zone for Turkmen areas? Will you take measures to prevent the PKK from invading Turkishmen areas where ISIS will evacuate? Will the international coalition forces and Turkish Armed Forces also perform an operation against the PKK terror organization, which you claim to have continued to be a threat to Turkey in the north of Iraq and Syria? You say foreign armed forces, you don't say foreign states, I want to know if it's a mistake or if it's a conscious choice.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0090par0164	Mr. Chancer, I'll give you a three-minute extension.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0088par0165	▪ What do you mean by foreign armed forces? You need to explain that here. Explain it, and have the Turkish Armed Forces do the same. I hope the government will answer those questions from this stand. According to the National Movement Party, ISIS, NYD is tasked with building its roof, building the walls of the four-part large Kurdistan as a subsidiary of the PKK global projects. The territorial integrity of Iraq and Syria is indispensable to us, as should the government. The more illegitimate ISIS for Turkey, the PYD, and the PKK are the more illegitimate, illegal, and anti- internationally illegal enemies of humanity. They are all terrorist elements that threaten Turkey's national security. The threat is directed directly and directly to the Turkish nation. The government's first priority should be to tie Turkey's security to solid ground, to whatever means necessary. The Turkish state must face all national forces against the procedural campaign, which has been staged along its border. The National Movement Party considers Turkey honest and makes its choice for the Turkish nation. Turkey's safety, historical rights and interests are at stake. As the National Movement Party, we are obliged to defend the Turkish nation, Turkish homeland, Turkish flag, and 1,000 years of brotherhood as a sacred relic. We're ready for any assignment. Dear lawmakers, the defense of the country in question is the rest of it. There is a saying. This is where the National Movement Party stops. Nothing is over, precious MPs, and history has not yet passed its verdict. Time is the cure of all things, the will of all things, the power and protection of the Almighty God above all things. May God Almighty save the Turkish nation and all people from this terror. Before the Festival of the Holy Sacrifice, we do this prayer from our heart as the community of the Nationalist Movement Party, and I salute your grand delegation, celebrating the Feast of Sacrifice, you and your beloved nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0091par0170	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Adana MP Faruk Logoglu will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0092par0174	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group for Iraq and Syria, which the government has submitted to parliament. As I salute all of you, I wish that starting today, the new legislature would witness wise decisions in order to rid our country of its tensions and war environment. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we are at a historic crossroads today. You're about to make a decision that will affect the future of our country and our region. Therefore, I hope and hope that you will act not as party members, but as free and free defenders of our people's opinion. I believe you're aware that we're discussing a matter beyond parties and that a wrong decision to make here could lead to our country's irreparable pain and loss. Dear lawmakers, we, the Republican People's Party, have repeatedly brought up the mistakes of foreign policy that have brought us to this point of discussion with our criticism and concrete proposals.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0093par0177	Silence, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0094par0178	We can't hear.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0095par0179	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0096par0180	Just a minute, if you'll excuse me. I heard it, too.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0097par0181	Therefore, the adventure of the government...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0096par0182	Mr. Logoglu, just a minute. Please, don't talk on the phone. Whoever's talking, please don't do this outside and don't chat together, please. Here, Mr. Logoglu, I'll add the time you lost.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0098par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. I was saying that we, the Republican People's Party, have repeatedly brought up the mistakes of foreign policy that have brought us to this point of discussion with our criticism and concrete proposals. Therefore, I will not repeat today our criticism of the general foreign policy based on an adventurous and sectarian understanding followed by the government. Today, first, I'm going to focus on the vague, flawed, conflicting and dangerous elements that are involved in the thesis text and the motive. And in the second part, I'm going to give you a concrete proposal on our participation and contributions to the coalition of antiterrorism. Dear lawmakers, let's redefine the fact that the next thesis is an inconsistencies, an inconsistencies, an uncertain objective and goal. Just in case, this and that may be needed. It is a bag filled with everything the government has in mind. Yes, it's a bag of dissociative, non-satisfactional, non-structive. It can easily become an uncontrollable weapon in the hands of an incompetent administration, which includes many ambiguities in terms of the scope, the present and time. Now let's see what's in this bag one by one. First of all, is the PKK a terrorist organisation and a threat, as mentioned in the argument's motive, or is the PKK a legitimate institution that has been dealt with by the government in the process of resolving the parliament and our people for two years without being bothered to inform them? On this occasion, I would like to stress that since the PKK cannot declare its surrender to arms and terrorism as a precondition, the solution process was born crippled and therefore unable to reach the goal. The United Nations Security Council's decisions confirm the territorial integrity and independence of Iraq and Syria, and of course they know that Turkey is the country that violates our neighbours' territorial integrity and independence the most. I ask those who carry Iraqi oil without Baghdad's approval and against the Constitution of Iraq to Turkey, who for months allow the Free Syrian Army to use Hatay as headquarters and the activities of ISIS that led both countries to collapse -- in the lightest terms -- to those who remain silent in the country: What actions can you claim to have the territorial integrity and independence of Iraq and Syria? Your words and actions don't match at all, I'm afraid. You're citing the addition of new elements to the ongoing risks in the region. That's right, new elements have been added to the threats against our country. The most dangerous of these are the President and the government's 1st and 3th take account. Emphasizing the politics followed by the late Turkut Ozal, during the first Gulf War, is evidence of this delusion. You must never forget that the wrong account has returned from Baghdad. If those who spoke of our obligations due to international law at the forefront of the thesis had complied with the decisions of the relevant security council so far, there would not have been hundreds of thousands of people dying in the region, nor would we be discussing this thesis here today. Dear friends cannot speak of respect for the territorial integrity, sovereignty, and independence of Iraq, who abuse Iraq's national unity by exploiting its national wealth, excluding Baghdad, and violating Iraq's stability by even interfering with its elections. More importantly, an analysis of content on the grounds of the thesis clearly reveals that ISIS is not the main concern of the government. What is the meaning of the expression "Syrian regime" over and over again when the word "Ishid" is forced to be used once? It is clear that the government sees developments in the region as an opportunity to engage in a heated conflict with the Syrian regime and uses ISIS as cover to conceal its true intentions. The government, which said it would fight the developing ISIS in Iraq, has put the Syrian regime on its target, not one line to the chaotic situation and human drama in Iraq. The AKP's obsession with Esad, whatever it may be, is the backbone of the reason for the thesis. The government may feel that the regime in Syria is not legitimate, but it can't place it in its statement as a reason to intervene in the country, it can't impose it on the Supreme Assembly. The people of that country decide the legitimacy of a regime, and the doctrine of the United Nations and its acquisitors are in that direction. Dear friends, democratic and international law-abiding states present a threat to them based on evidence and try to eliminate such threats within international law rules, but in quotes, the offensive policies of the Syrian regime targeting our country have no real response in real life. What is real is the threat of terrorist organizations operating in Syria, Iraq and Turkey, especially ISIS, to our country. It is also a cheap policy that the risk of security at Solomon's Shah Temple should be justified. In any attack against Solomon's Shah Turbage, under the legal right to defend the United Nations Law on Article 51, Turkey responds to the United Nations and defends its territory by informing the United Nations with a mandate that will come out of this parliament in minutes, even without a default. In addition, the attack on an ally is considered an attack on all allies. The Fifth Article of the NATO Treaty, which says, "It is also carried out in this scope." Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, when we look at the thesis, the first prominently decorated text with open-ended expressions is designed to give the government a wide range of powers. With this thesis, the government makes the Turkish Armed Forces a figure of gambling in the Middle East, signaling that it will use our troops to the battlefields based entirely on abstract and interpretation statements. We all know that under the intention of sending troops to neighbouring countries, Syria is a secure area and... Please, Mr. President, Mr. President... Mr. President, I'm distracted because my friends are talking in the front row.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0099par0199	Congressmans, let's be quiet. I'm really tired of saying his request.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0100par0200	Let's take a break, sir.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0099par0201	Please, don't put me in this position.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0101par0202	We didn't disrespect you at all.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0099par0203	Please... Here you go, Mr. Logoglu.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0102par0205	We all know that under the intention of sending troops to neighbouring countries, there is a desire to create a safe zone and a no-fly zone in Syria. The Turkish Armed Forces are not satellites of someone's safety zones and non-flying zone fantasies, they're not enforcers, they shouldn't be. Without the approval of the Syrian government and the UN Security Council's decision, safe zones and non-fly zones would mean attack and invasion of the neighbouring country, endangering the security of our country, and his position in Turkey's region would be irreparably shaken. Any intervention will drive Turkey into an ins and out-of-the-way swamp, and Mehmetchik will be left alone in neighbouring countries, just as we have been left alone with nearly 2 million refugees. Dear friends also approve the presence of foreign armed forces in Turkey. The expression of foreign armed forces can include not only the soldiers of countries involved in the anti-Isil coalition, but also the armed forces and some organisations related to non-state sectors, actors. The government may also treat the Hengmark and the Free Syrian Army as foreign armed forces. The thesis is open to that. On the basis of this authority, the government can form an armed force within Turkey's borders from foreign militants, implement the formula the President refers to, and quickly transform our land into a base of conflicts in our region. On the other hand, it also approves the use of foreign forces to deploy and use bases in our country according to the principles set by the government. How and why will the countries who will send this to the military accept it? Will Germany make its use of its own soldier within the basis of Turkey's determination? How, then, does the government accept responsibility for the actions of foreign forces that will use our country as a base, and by what authority? More importantly, in the context of counterterrorism, has Turkey reached the point where it needs foreign soldiers to protect itself? What kind of patriotism is it to allow such a situation, to approve it? Those who don't hold Mehmet's hand, who don't spare him and who seek help from foreign soldiers are not called nationalists, nor are they called patriots. As children of a nation that has given the War of Salvation and a member of a Parliament that has rejected the March 1st declaration, will it not be careless, foolish, and treacherous? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, not only as Republican People's Party MP, but as a man who has dedicated his life to the Turkish extremism, I want to make it clear that if this is accepted, Turkey will become the pirate state of the region. Please see this. The security risks facing Turkey are not for piracy in the region. None of the Security Council decisions you're referring to give you that right. On the grounds, three UN Security Council resolutions have been referred to, seeking international legitimacy in the foreseeable use of cross-border force. None of these decisions, however, have anything to do with the use of force remotely. The readers will see that these decisions referred to are decisions that call on terrorist organizations to cut off human resources, financial resources and other feeding grounds, not to respond to a military intervention, but to allow it. In other words, these decisions by the United Nations do not establish a legal basis for Turkey's military intervention in Iraq and Syria with its own armed forces or foreign forces; they do not give possible military intervention international legitimacy. No country in the region of the anti-Isil coalition has asked or asked for military intervention from you, Turkey has refused or even opposed it. The new Iraqi Prime Minister Haydar al-Abadi has made it clear in Paris that they do not want to see soldiers from Turkey in Iraq, and while the Syrian Foreign Minister says that we would consider the safe zone an attack, how could the government still be in such a recession, I am surprised and surprised at that. Dear friends, we've been watching the human drama of days in Kobani, and on our southern borders. In many cities of Turkey, I advise you to look carefully at the support of the people of Kobani, who defend their living spaces against ISIS, and I think you should take the necessary lessons and results out of it. I'm asking the government: do you realize that while you're trying to create legitimacy for your intervention in neighbouring countries, you're in there emulating loyalty to the state, leading to a dissolution of the relationship between a part of the people and the state that's already tense? Are you aware, in the same way, that by abandoning our Turkmen brothers and sisters to their destinies, you have caused deep and lasting wounds by not embracing them? Dear friends, there is no doubt that Turkey must fight ISIS, which has destroyed the human resources, culture, historical heritage, and democratic gains of our region, and all terrorist organizations. The Republican People's Party supports this approach and supports it to the end. Turkey should also support the anti-Isil coalition by defining its contribution correctly. But Turkey should not be involved in any military dimension of the coalition and not allow our territory to be used for military operations. Turkey should adopt the third and best option, except to join the coalition against ISIS or not. This third road has two legs: First, Turkey must effectively fight ISIS and all terrorist organisations in the country under the guidance of Security Council decisions. Because the lifebloods of ISIS, born in Iraq, flourished in Syria and gained an increasingly international identity, are in Turkey. Turkey is the country that can make the biggest contribution to the anti-Isil coalition by cutting off these vessels. Secondly, Turkey should establish a whole strategy, including the fight against socioeconomic problems, which brings out ISIS and other terrorist organisations, and add this strategy to the fight against terrorist organisations in the region as a dimension of the fight. The Security Council's decisions, referred to as the basis for the thesis, reveal all details of the fight against ISIS. The government should start the work, not only publishing the list of terrorist organisations in the official newspaper, but start the work. In addition to the decisions of the Security Council on the fight against terrorism, 1373, 2170, 2178 must also carry out decisions 1989 and 1988, without delay. Thirteen years have passed since 1373, which was adopted in 2001. It is clear that the AKP, which has been in power most of these thirteen years, has not implemented this decision so far. For example, the southern borders and airports of Turkey, ISIS and Al Nusra organisations, would not have been the inn if it had been carried out by the independent border controls (g) of the 2nd amendment (g) of the ruling to prevent border crossings of terrorists. If necessary measures were taken to prevent financing terrorism, which are in almost all of the Security Council decisions I mentioned, ISIS would not be able to sell oil to a number of centres in Turkey today. Turkey's borders should be cut from being the point of transition to conflict zones of terrorist organisations, particularly ISIS, to not being the logistical support base of these organisations, and those organisations should be prevented from gathering fans and resources through economic and social media in our country. In other words, cleaning the size of ISIS swamps in our country will make Turkey the most influential member of the anti-Isil coalition and eliminate the danger of social dissolution that I have just noticed. Instead of fighting within the country with ISIS, if the government engages in new adventures through military operations, our country is actively drawn into the problems of Syria and Iraq, conflicts in the region expand, deepen, extend, and Turkey faces this bottomless struggle and the threat of terrorism. We all owe it to ourselves to prevent it.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0103par0220	Mr. Logoglu, I'll give you a three-minute extension. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0102par0222	Dear lawmakers, with your votes coming up, you will not only affect Turkey's future, but the future of our region's. I call upon you not to invade our country in the land of its neighbours, I call upon you not to deliver Mehmetchik to the swamp, I call upon you not to endanger the safety of our people and our country, I call upon you not to hurt our Kurdish citizens, but to listen to the voice of your conscience and to think of the future of your children, and I invite you not to stand for war, but for peace and stability. The Republican People's Party will do its duty to its country, its territory, and all humanity, and will say no to this thesis, for these reasons, for the reasons I consider above. I want to believe that you will fulfill your historical responsibility, and remember that you will answer both in this world and in the next. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0104par0226	Thank you, Mr. Logoglu.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0105par0227	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0104par0228	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0105par0231	Mr. President, this is a very important session. We're talking about a statement that the government requires that Turkish Armed Forces go to neighbouring countries, foreign armed forces come to Turkey, and they go to another country via Turkey. Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, chairman of the main opposition party, is here, Mr. State Gardenli, chairman of the National Movement Party, and we are following the session very carefully. I remember the March 1, 2003, when Prime Minister Abdullah Gul was sitting at the government's hearing. There is no difference between March 1st and today's thesis as content. After that, Mr. Erdogan made it a habit not to be in the General Assembly as opposition representatives spoke. I wonder if Prime Minister Davutoglu will not come to General Kurula at such an important session. Is this subject so trivial? Does Mr. Davutoglu not feel the need to be on the General Assembly when Mehmetçik is being sent to war, or will he follow Mr. Erdoğan, as he has always done, and then come to General Kurula as representatives of the opposition speak? I want this question answered, sir.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0104par0234	Okay, thank you. There's nothing I can do about it, I hope there's someone who can answer. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Ankara MP Emrullah Business will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0106par0242	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin my words, I respectfully salute your grand delegation and wish the new year of legislation to be a blessing and a success. The threat of terrorism against Turkey's national security and any security risk against international law to take whatever necessary measures necessary, to eliminate attacks on our country from all terrorist organisations in Iraq and Syria and to ensure its security against other possible risks, such as mass migration, during the crisis and later possible initiatives, to protect Turkey's high interests effectively and to protect its interests, and to ensure that the future measures of developments will be taken by the Turkish authorities, according to the direction of development, to ensure that a high-speed and dynamic policy will be followed by Turkey's armed forces, and to ensure that there will be a high-processssssssion and measures to ensure that there will be a greater threat to all countries in order not to meet a difficult situation. Congressmans, we feel more and more the problems of the chaos and instability of the two countries next door. In particular, the risks and threats to our national security along our southern land borders have greatly increased as a result of recent developments. This is the fourth year of the conflict and human drama in Syria, where we share the 911-mile border. The spiral of violence in Syria is getting deeper and deeper. Unfortunately, the risks posed by regime threats have come to a point where both regional and international peace, security and stability are clearly threatened. From the beginning, our country has made the necessary warnings and warnings of where this course will take place and where we are today with grief, taking the necessary steps to resolve the conflict in accordance with the legitimate expectations of the Syrian people. Without a doubt, the regime is responsible for the ongoing chaos, instability, and destruction of Syria. The regime, which takes advantage of the patriarchy of the international community, continues to suppress the legitimate demand and expectations of the people through violence. In this context, the regime is resorting to the killings regardless of distinction, including heavy artillery, even chemical weapons. The number of ballistic missiles launched by the regime has already reached 421. Mr. President, I would like to remind you of the painful and sad painting of the conflict in Syria: the violent spiral in Syria has caused more than 200,000 lives to be lost, 6.5 million people to be displaced within the country, 3 million people to take refuge in neighbouring countries, and economic destruction reached 150 billion dollars. Having felt the impact of the conflict closely, our country is home to 1.3 million Syrian residents who live in shelters and live in cities by their own means. The costs in this framework have reached $3.5 billion. On the other hand, 82 of our citizens have been killed in Syrian-based attacks so far. Citizens living along our border line have been victims of conflict in the north of Syria for the past week. It is our right, of course, to protect our land and citizens in the face of all these developments. The Syrian regime is responsible for the threat of ISIS, which we already complain of in our region. In order to manipulate the war against his people, the regime did not stop using the terrorist organizations that existed in the region, but grew and raised a new terrorist organization such as ISIS, which he could not suppress with his own power, to continue to rule over persecution, blood and tears. By the regime itself, Syria is now the home of terror and terrorists. This naturally leads to new organisations that would threaten international peace and security to find relief in the region. Dear lawmakers, considering recent developments, we as Turkey must take the necessary measures against all threats around our national borders. But we must remember that our national security will not be established unless the risks and threats from Syria and the regime are eliminated. Today, we are happy to see that the international community understands how much the conflict in Syria has become a big problem. I'd like to bring to your attention the measures that can be taken here in the international plan. In the context of the Syrian-based risk, threat and fight against instability, the need for a safe space between these threats and our border has now become inevitable. Without a doubt, in such a secure area, our brothers and sisters on the Syrian side will be sheltered and all their needs will be met on their territory. As a result of the failure to dry the safe zone, it has so far had to migrate to more than 1.5 million Syrian countries. As a matter of fact, our country has opened its doors to more than 160,000 Syrians who have escaped conflict in the past two weeks alone. We believe that such a secure area will allow our brothers and sisters to breathe in their own territory, fleeing the conflict in Syria. Such an area will be needed in the context of fighting both ISIS and the regime in the field. Our country will provide the necessary contribution to international cooperation in this regard. Dear lawmakers, the presence of ISIS in the Suleiman Shah Respect Station area, 37km from the Turkish-Suriye border, raises our concerns not only in the safety of the police station but also in the security of our military personnel at the police station. It is the Turkish government's duty to protect Suleiman Shah Respect Station, an integral part of the Turkish motherland. Turkey will show no hesitation in fulfilling that responsibility. Honourable MPs, on the other hand, the sectarian and aberrant policies followed by governments established after the U.S. invasion of Iraq have been continued despite all our friendly warnings. The ISIS terrorist organization is the result of these policies. As a matter of fact, this attitude by the Sunni tribes who supported ISIS today was an outburst of anger against the sectarian and aberrant policies that Maliki had carried out since 2006 and the killings of the militia in his direction. In terms of developments in Iraq, ISIS attacks targeting our relatives, our Iraqi brothers, and the ancient peoples of the region worry us as much as the entire world. Unlike the third countries, Turkey, one of the two countries with a common border with Syria and Iraq, deals directly with the consequences of these developments. In this framework, we should not be expected to close our eyes on what's going on in the area. These problems are not issues that will be eliminated by closing our eyes. As a matter of fact, our country has already been under increasing pressure to emigrate due to the ISIS metric. Similarly, the effects of conflict on our borders are felt. If this continues, it will be inevitable for a stronger ISIS to come to our gates tomorrow. On the other hand, it is clear that wishing organisations such as ISIS to act rationally and mercifully would not be in line with the seriousness of the state and the responsibility of the country's administration. As Turkey, we have thus far stressed that Iraq's territorial integrity and political independence are the main elements of our foreign policy towards this country. I'd like to confirm our determination here once again. A strong, prosperous and stable Iraq is in the interests of both the international community and the countries of the region and the people of Iraq, especially our country. Unfortunately, today, ISIS attacks are deepening the gaps, as yesterday's sectarian and aberrant policies and crimes have taken place among the Iraqi people on the fault lines of religious and religious and religious belonging. If no measures are taken against ISIS activities today, the security crisis will be permanent in Iraq. If we watch the metric in Iraq, not only will the blood flow today, but the blood flow tomorrow will also be on our account. Dear lawmakers, the unacceptable activities of ISIS not only threaten our borders, but also sullied the fundamental principle of peace religion Islam and tolerance. ISIS claims to have committed these murders in its holy book, killing all human beings. Therefore, it is unacceptable for those who believe in sacred values to watch ISIS murders. In addition, ISIS has targeted our Turkmen family members and areas where they lived from day one. Turkmen, the most important element of our strategic position in Iraq, under the traumatic influence of ISIS activities, have been forced to flee the areas where they have lived for ten centuries. The demographic structure in the north of Iraq is at risk of changing against Turks and our country's auction communities if we give ISIS the right to live. These attacks also pose the risk of creating a Shii-Sunni segregation among our Turkmen brothers, which so far does not exist. It's not only our government's policy that our Turkmen brothers gather around it, that they're not separated by the scourge of sectarianism, but also by our government's. Honourable lawmakers have so far shared these issues with allied partners in Newport, Cidda, Paris, and New York, at four meetings held in Paris, and the United Nations General Assembly for the purpose of fighting ISIS. Turkey became one of two countries in all of these meetings. Although we chose not to be too visible about it so far, Turkey has become one of the key guides of decisions made by the international community regarding Iraq, and has been present with the Iraqi people. As a result of our efforts, we are pleased to see a common international understanding of the necessity of the comprehensive strategy mentioned at this stage. To eliminate terror, it is important to eliminate the factors that created it, to take preventive measures, to dry the swamp, so to speak. The factors that brought out ISIS are political, and the solution is primarily political. The most important political factors that have produced ISIS in Iraq and Syria are the ruthlessness of the long-lost regime in Syria and the sectarian and exclusive policies of the past administration in Iraq. In this framework, we have stated on every occasion that we see the April elections as a new start for Iraq, and we have expressed support for the government, which was established in September. We hope that the government of Ibadi will be effective in the country's administration, not only in certain circles, but also in dialogue with others who have been excluded so far. Honourable lawmakers, as a country, we have carried out studies that would be appreciated by all consciences in the matter of humanitarian aid. In this context, we are about to complete and deliver the construction of three camps to house our Arab, Turkmen, Ezidi Kurd brothers from the Duhok province in the Kurdish Regional Government of Iraq. In this framework, since June, we have referred 287 truckloads of humanitarian aid to the region, particularly medicine and food materials, as of late September. Iraqis from the region, AFAD and Kızılay tell their tears that during the busiest period of ISIS attacks, they wander from village to village, detecting needs, and delivering them to those in need. On this occasion, I am obliged to thank these officers from the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. So, no matter how we define ourselves, let us put our hands on our conscience as representatives of the nation under the roof of our great Parliament, we will see that the peace and prosperity and stability of our neighbours and brothers, the Syrians and Iraqis, are in our hands today. It's a responsibility that history puts on our shoulders. And when the day comes, we'll all answer together in the history and conscience court as part of that responsibility. Dear lawmakers are a country that feels increasingly in security, economic and social context the risks and threats stemming from our country's countries in the region. It is necessary to analyze what is going on around you and prepare for the context of risks and threats that may occur in the near and distant future and take timely steps to become a great and modern state. Naturally, it is necessary to establish the legal infrastructure of these steps timely. The situation in Syria and Iraq and the risks and threats caused by these countries, which are enriched with new elements in order to protect our country's high interests, are in favour of us as the AK PARTI Group, which I hope is a blessing. Dear lawmakers, there have been some criticisms from statements written on the grounds of the thesis. We have always said: "We are in favor of the integrity of Syria and Iraq. " We said it over and over again that we had no eyes on anyone in their land. Still, however, in the same way, these criticisms have been repeated, unfortunately, and there have been views that this statement is against the Syrian regime, not against ISIS. In fact, the entry paragraph mentions ISIS, including PKK terrorist organisation. But we've always said that the swamp that gave birth to ISIS is the Syrian swamp. We've done our best to make sure that this swamp doesn't happen in Syria. When problems began in Syria in 2011, we met for six months in action from the good relations we had developed in the past. Six months, look; six months of phone calls were made, face-to-face calls, recommendations were made, and look, the end of this road is a dead end.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0107par0267	You put pressure on the authority of the Devil.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0106par0268	And so we see together the end of those who didn't follow our advice, who thought that they would run their policies with lies that day. Syria's point is clear, the point of Iraq is clear.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0108par0269	Turkey's point of view is also clear.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0106par0270	We see together what the fate of those who run politics by lying is, and we see together what lies politicians do to their country.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0108par0271	You were going to perform the holiday prayer in Damascus!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0106par0272	We as Turkey have always said in a loud, free voice that we favour democracy in the region. We said we favour human rights, and we said we favour peace, peace, prosperity, and we expressed the need to listen to the legitimate demands of the people in this region when the Arab Spring began. What's wrong with this policy, for God's sake?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0109par0273	There is no democracy in Turkey, in Turkey; first bring democracy to Turkey!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0106par0274	While we were doing this, what did someone do?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0109par0275	You bring the dictatorship to Turkey, you want democracy in the world, it's not hypocrisy.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0106par0276	In particular, some countries and international forces in the region, those who saw the Arab people's demand for democracy too much, turned these countries into hell, where Arab Spring took place.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0109par0277	First bring democracy to Turkey and bring freedom to Turkey.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0110par0278	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0106par0279	Just yesterday, look, when the international coalition took place, Mr. Kilicdaroglu was here, and his statement was in front of us, what was he saying on 9 September? What he said is that part of the Western Alliance in defence of Turkey, we don't object to Turkey taking part in an operation against ISIS in the Middle East, it's an important decision for Turkey's future. Now, we make this decision, Haluk Koç makes a similar statement, doesn't he?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0111par0280	What's it to you?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0106par0281	But, look, there are opposition parties here.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0112par0282	You are declaring war on Syria, not ISIS!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0106par0283	We were at the meeting that day in Jedde, for obvious reasons, so that the hostages would not be harmed because of the precision of the hostages.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0113par0285	Read the script, read the memo!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0106par0286	When you were conducting a very delicate policy, you were making these statements against us.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0114par0288	You were going to perform the holiday prayer in Damascus, and it was over.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0115par0289	I'll give you a three-minute extension, Mr. Business.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0106par0290	Now, you see, the opposition has a problem: You're following the policy of saying what the government says is,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0116par0291	There's a problem with power: lying to the public!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0106par0292	Look, we'll just...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0116par0293	Your power lies to the people! Solve this problem.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0106par0294	Look, if we say, "Come, let's fight, let's get this thesis out." When we say, "You have defied the thesis." Logoglu has just said that today is a historic day, October 2, 2014, an important day, and it will be an important turning point in Turkey's future, and you are sadly voting negatively, and you will not be able to account for it for future generations. Look, Turkey is surrounded by fire.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0117par0295	Thanks to you!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0106par0296	What did Mr. Kilicdaroglu say here when our plane was crashed? Why aren't you interfering? Why don't you attack?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0118par0297	You crashed the plane! Explain the verdicts! Explain the secret decisions!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0119par0298	Congressmans... members of the law... from the noise, Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0118par0299	If you have honor, honor, dignity, explain the secret verdict of the court!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0120par0300	Now, look...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0119par0301	Everyone's uncomfortable with the noise, not just you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0118par0302	Look, let them explain the secret verdict of the court!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0119par0303	Please...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0118par0304	Friends, in the secret decision of the court, it is the power to bring down the plane.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0119par0305	Please, Mr. Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Business.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0121par0307	Look, they say we, Turkey, are adventurous, they say they follow adventurous policies; if we were adventurers, then we would take the necessary adventure when the plane went down or when the plane went down, but we act with our mind.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0122par0308	The plane has brought down power! Explain it to the public. Remove the confidentiality order in the court order.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0119par0309	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0121par0310	Turkey is not a state; Turkey has a state tradition; Turkey has a state tradition that goes back hundreds of years, and the institutions of this state have a common mind in Turkey. As for the solution process, the solution process is not just the government's policy, it's a policy of the state, and all of the state's institutions are involved in that policy. I wish this connotation to our country, to our nation, to salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0123par0313	Where are we in the state, Mr. Emrullah?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0124par0314	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0125par0315	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0124par0316	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0125par0317	Sir, in his speech, Mr. Orator, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu used it in the exact opposite sense, by removing a speech that Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu had made earlier, from the purpose of moving it to a different location. Therefore, I would like to speak according to Article 69.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0124par0318	Here you go. Two minutes...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0125par0323	Mr. President, we, the Republican People's Party Group, stand by Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu's statement on 9 September 2014. I said the same thing about the speech I gave earlier today from this podium.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0126par0324	You're defending the Syrian regime here.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0125par0325	Turkey must take part in the international coalition against an organization that cuts heads off like ISIS, has entered violent practices, but you do not intend to fight ISIS...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0126par0326	Isn't Esed cutting off heads?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0125par0327	Your intention is to see the account you have not seen before with the Syrian regime, with Assad. If you really had any intention of fighting ISIS, you would have claimed to settle with ISIS, not with the Assad regime. The word "Ishid" is mentioned once, and 15 times is passed by Syria and the Assad regime.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0126par0328	That's so sweet of you!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0125par0329	Dear MPs, I also briefed you in my speech here on what method the international coalition is fighting against ISIS. It seems Mr. Emrullah didn't listen to this speech, was given a speech text, or did the speech without considering the information I gave him. We have prepared a brochure to help Emrullah Bey and the Justice and Development Party Group. The English Truth and the Turkish brochure, "Let's distribute it to you" -- if you think it's appropriate -- is what methods the international coalition is implementing. What country is doing? There's not a country that does ground operations. Six countries say I'll join the air force. The others say it's for religious support, political support, diplomatic support. You are the one who nurtured and raised ISIS, your government, the government of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0127par0332	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0125par0333	We don't trust the government's Syrian policy, its foreign policy.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0128par0334	Well done for your loveliness!
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0127par0335	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0129par0336	Mr. President, the speaker, again, has expressed an opinion on state policy. I don't know what state policy is...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0127par0337	Are you going to make a statement?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0129par0338	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0127par0339	Here, one minute from your seat.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0130par0340	Mr. President, why didn't you give it to me?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0129par0343	Thank you, Mr. President. Is it because of the ignorance of a policy, not knowing what state policy is, not knowing what government policy is, that politics is being carried out through these concepts, or is this politics being carried out to create pressure on the concept of state? Dear MPs, we have repeatedly expressed our opposition to the opening policy, especially Mr. President, and if the nation's will is the only one, then the National Movement Party is a representative of part of the nation's will represented in this Parliament. There are people from other groups who use the same phrases. A policy created by the state's institutions, the Chief of Staff at first said he didn't know what the contents of the opening policy was a week or two ago. Under all these circumstances -- Mr. Speakers, I ask you to question your conscience -- does anyone in the parliamentary group know what the contents of the opening policy are? The Council of Ministers...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0131par0347	Thank you, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0129par0348	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0131par0349	Now...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0132par0350	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0131par0351	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0132par0352	Dear President, the speaker just mentioned the plane that fell. The Secretary of Defense is here, military officials are here.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0133par0353	Mr. President, there is no procedure. Will every stand-up speaker speak, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0132par0354	The Military Criminal Court has a confidentiality order on this matter. That's why this plane was shot down. So the military authorities here know, and if possible, I'd like to ask them to inform the public and the Parliament.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0133par0355	Mr. President, we don't have to listen.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0134par0356	Okay, then they'll explain, Mr. Tanal, and then they'll make a statement.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0135par0357	Let him explain now, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0134par0361	İstanbul MP Osman Taney Kurkurk will speak for himself. T-minus ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0136par0364	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the opinion of the Republican People's Party on the thesis we are discussing today has been made very clear by Adana MP Faruk Logogoglu, not on very good grounds but on history. I'm not going to repeat myself. I'm going to go over a few things, not a few loose ends, but I think there's more to it than that. Now, number one, what do you want in this thesis? In their statement to the public, the prime minister and the President described this statement as providing security against the threat of terrorism against Turkey. When you read the thesis text, there's a section called the Council of Ministers Principle, and there's the thesis itself, these two are one. The first part doesn't strike me as such a counterterrorism because sending soldiers abroad... Sending soldiers, fighting terrorism, sending soldiers abroad? In order to fight terrorism, you have to shut down your own borders, make them impenetrable. Medically speaking, you need to close your borders. You have to stop the trade of your borders, you have to prevent it. The French radios are shouting at the bar because it's being sold to France, where the bad quality of oil is being combined with oil and refined in the refinery here and going to the European Union. You need to stop this. You need to track the ISIS elements that are moving around the country. You need to prosecute them, arrest them, subpoena them, whatever you can get out of the country. This is how you fight terrorism, not by sending soldiers abroad. What does it mean to send soldiers abroad? Are you going to fight the ISIS scourge in Iraq, Syria, where they send soldiers? Obama made a statement, and I don't want to do black ops. Are you going to make the Turkish soldier do the action Obama didn't want to do? Are you going to take the young children there and have them break them? Is there such a suggestion, my friends? Why are you bringing me this epiphany? Now, when you think about this thesis, think about the March 1, 2003 thesis. On March 1, 2003, it was a dissertation to send more or less troops abroad, but more importantly, to have foreign soldiers come here. Here's where the foreign soldiers come in. What do you think? Look, what do you call it here, in this thesis: bringing foreign soldiers to Turkey, using them in the way the government dictates. Is that it? There's a lot of bricky books written about March 1st, folks. I suggest you read them. He writes down long negotiations with America, how these soldiers will come, how they will go, where they will stand, where they will stand, what they will be subject to. Look, I'll show you how it went on March 1, 2003. He scores about the arrival of soldiers, saying that there is no more than 60,000. He scores for the planes, he says 255 planes. It gives them time to stay, it says six months. None of this is here. Why will foreign soldiers come? What foreign soldiers will come? Which law will he be subject to? When's he leaving? Is that even possible? I know your fellow lawmakers, who didn't vote for March 1, 2003, are among you, so think about it again here, and think about it in terms of your consciences.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0137par0373	They sent them away.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0136par0374	Look, there was a bag of laws passed last year late one night, and a change was made in that bag of legislation regarding the military obligation of the Turkish Armed Forces Civil Service Act. I went out, and I told you on this stand, and you're making a very wrong change here. Because the duty is to be a soldier... where he said: "It is an obligation to learn and do the art of war for the defense of the country. You have removed the word of the defense of the state from there. How did he stay? Now, the Turkish Armed Forces say within the Civil Service Law: "The obligation to be a soldier is to learn and do the art of war." Could such a thing happen? Learning and doing the art of war. Learn and do for what? To fight against ISIS, as subcontractors, to go out to land where America did not go, to die there. Did you do this for him? Now there's a doubt! What kind of work is this, guys? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, here, you're looking, there's some nonsense again, inside the thesis itself, not the entrance. He says: "Is it a joke, friends, who wrote this, who is it, against possible risks, such as mass migration? Possible risk, like mass migration. What possible risk? 1.5 million Syrians crawl in Turkey. We can't stop at the red light until we drive in and ask for money from the window wiper. Isn't it a shame they're here, these people? Speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party, it is said that Syria's swamp is the reason why ISIS, ISIS terrorist organization and other organisations are taking root here.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0138par0377	It's Esed.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0139par0378	Esed is Esed.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0136par0379	The reason for the Syrian swamp is that former Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, who is now your Prime Minister, brought imaginary policies, false policies, all those terrorist organizations here. Why don't you see him? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Friends, is it more difficult to make amends than this to avoid a difficult situation in the future, according to the progress of progress? Can you imagine a more difficult situation to make up for the situation we're in right now? You're saying we're going to be hard to make up for. I wonder if he doesn't realize who wrote this, how does that work? The State Department is my own agency, and you didn't show it to them? To follow a fast and dynamic policy to avoid a difficult situation ahead, it is very difficult to use foreign forces based on the basis the government will determine. Foreign forces cannot be used according to the government's principles, which have been greatly challenged on March 1st, and, thankfully, was not accepted by the honorable and consistent behavior of the Grand National Assembly. Now that's not supposed to be accepted, guys. Ask your conscience: Do you need to send the military out to fight ISIS? No. Has the coalition been established? It's set. Is there a decision by the coalition to establish a safe zone -- as explained by the Justice and Development Party -- from the United Nations Security Council? No. Without such a decision, where will you send whom? If the United Nations Security Council makes such a decision, if you consider sending troops there in accordance with that decision, we have the Council of Counsellors here, meeting, deciding in ten minutes; in an hour, the Grand National Assembly will assemble, we'll issue a statement, we'll give it to you, but we can't give you an open check in this dark picture today. Those who give you a blank check are left with their own conscience. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, Prime Minister Mr. President says to him: "I warn Kilicdaroğlu, if the Republican People's Party votes no, it will write the name of the Republican People's Party with ISIS." Look, friends, I'm very clear, and I'm warning the Prime Minister that if he goes to this notice, he'll send troops abroad for this thesis, and if only one of our soldiers dies there, it won't end in history; it'll lead the Prime Minister to the Supreme Court. If our armed forces act in order to refer to the existence of a sovereign country abroad due to this thesis, this will not end with history, and this will end with the International Court of Justice, the International Criminal Court. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'm warning the government about all of this, and I'm warning you. Don't accept such a dissertation, my friends, let such a dissertation go. If necessary, we'll gather this thesis, see which soldiers come, where they go, where they go, where they sit, where they get up, where they get up, what they get up to, what they get up to, we'll accept it, but it's not acceptable to this thesis. If you do, you'll all be seriously responsible in front of history. I'm drawing your attention to them once again. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0140par0390	Thank you. Second speaker on behalf of him, İstanbul MP Smurf Ünal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0141par0394	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own authority regarding the declaration sent by our government to our supreme Assembly. May the new year of life be blessed, I salute your grand delegation. As in the past, our country continues to follow policies that support our national interests and contribute to the peace and stability of our region. What we are discussing today is a reflection of our country's basic position, a discussion of an important decision that must be made on behalf of the facility of peace and quiet in our country and in our region. Dear lawmakers, the risks and threats to our national security along Turkey's southern land borders have significantly increased as a result of recent developments. In the northern part of Iraq, there are elements of armed PKK terrorist organization. On the other hand, the number of other terrorist elements in Syria and Iraq is also being seen as a significant increase in their threat. As a matter of fact, the United Nations Security Council has confirmed the territorial integrity and independence of Iraq and Syria, with decisions 2170 and 2178 made during this year, and has condemned terrorist activities in these countries, condemning ISIS and similar terrorist activities, urging all United Nations member states to take necessary measures in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1373 and its responsibilities under international law. Given all these factors, it has been our national obligation to take additional measures against threats and dangers from the security gap in Iraq and Syria, as necessary as it is for national security, as it is for us to take as long as it takes for the first six-time extension of the Iraqi thesis in 2007 and the once-extended Syrian thesis in 2012 and the new elements to be activated. Turkey, which refers to the protection of Iraq's territorial integrity, national unity and stability, has to continue by increasing military, political and diplomatic measures and initiatives against the presence of terrorist groups in Iraq and the dangers it poses. On the other hand, the risks and threats of violence policies entering the fourth year of the Syrian regime are increasing in terms of humanitarian, regional security and stability. The regime continues its attacks on civilians with no distinction and no exception in resorting to any heavy weapons. It also follows a policy that aims to turn social differences into actual conflict by supporting terrorist groups, exploiting ethnic and religious belonging, in order to maintain its rule without legitimacy. The security crisis is deepening as the Syrian regime encourages them to operate in areas close to our country, especially in the search for influence by terrorist groups. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is careful to act within the framework of international law, especially in the relevant decisions of the United Nations Security Council. The developments in Syria, our neighbor for nearly four years have been on the agenda of our country, as on a global scale. In Syria, the protection of national security and interests remains the basis of our national policy, under the risks and threats posed by a large environment of human and socioeconomic destruction. This framework sees the need to extend the thesis for a year, in an effort to effectively protect and protect Turkey's high interests, to help follow a fast and dynamic policy in the face of possible developments. Precious lawmakers have not been seen in the last half century, where the Syrian regime's threat politics has reached today. The Bezar Assad regime has been declared solely responsible for crimes committed against humanity in Syria at meetings organised by both international organisations and decisions organised by the Syrian people. Moreover, through the support and cooperation of the Assad regime, terrorist groups in Syria have also moved their actions to Iraq, leading to chaos and instability. Therefore, the scope of threats from the Syrian regime has expanded with the threat of terrorism, making regional and international peace a serious threat to security and stability. Not much, just a year ago, the use of chemical weapons targeting the majority of women and children civilian population in Damascus has become the latest and most cruel example of the regime's recklessness and mass destruction policies. Honourable lawmakers are Turkey's country of the region, which is at its highest risk and threat. In this framework, Turkey is not expected to be indifferent to these risks and threats, just as we are not indifferent at the point of welcoming humanity. Yes, the number of refugees accepted by all European MPs from Syria is only 130. Turkey's number of Syrian refugees, which it has opened its doors to, has drawn close to 1.5 million. So far, we've spent $4 billion on our guests in our land, with cross-border assistance, reaching $4.5 billion. As the EC PARTY, we are proud of that, and we believe that these expenditures will create a unique climate of friendship and brotherhood for future. To highlight, there is a Turkey that opens its doors to all the needy, not to question the ethnic origins, beliefs, sects of people from Iraq and Syria, but to feed them, clothe them, shelter them. Arab, Kurd, Türkmen, Ezidi, Shii, Sunni, Nusayri, Christian, Jewish, without any distinction, there is a Turkey that only looks at human beings as human beings, reaching out to everyone. Dear lawmakers, we, the EC PARTY, aim for peace, stability and peace in this region. We certainly don't apply sectarian policies, we haven't applied them to this day, and we won't anymore.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0142par0406	Do you swear, Congressman?
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0141par0407	We continue to draw the line that we drew in 2002 in 2014. That's what we said that day, and that's what we're saying today. We're following a principled, moral, not a profit-oriented, human-oriented policy. We will continue this policy with the permission of God and with the support of our nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Terror, above all, is the most fundamental violation of human right to life, and that is the most severe violation of rights. As an AK PARTY, we never approve of a Muslim killing a human being with the name Allahu Akbar. In this context, we are once again witnessing that the ISIS elements had nothing to do with Islam. To ensure that our country's security will be maintained in the course of the crisis and in the course of future developments that may be specific during and after the crisis, to protect and protect Turkey's high interests effectively and to protect its high interests, according to the course of events, to ensure that foreign armed forces will be sent to foreign countries in order to avoid a difficult situation and to ensure that a swift and dynamic policy is followed by these forces, which will be used by the government, and will be able to ensure that there be every kind of measures and measures by the government, if necessary to be appointed by the Turkish Armed Forces, if necessary, in order to be sent across the border operations and intervention and intervention, and for the same purposes.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0143par0411	Thank you. Congressmans, talks on the Prime Minister's thesis have been completed. Now, I'm going to re-read the thesis and put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Risks and threats to our national security along Turkey's southern land borders have greatly increased as a result of recent developments. Armed PKK terror elements exist in the northern part of Iraq. On the other hand, the number of other terrorist elements in Syria and Iraq is also being seen as a significant increase in their threat. As a result, the United Nations Security Council has confirmed the territorial integrity and independence of Iraq and Syria in its decisions 2170 (2014) and 2178 (2014), and has condemned terrorist activities in these countries and urged all countries of the United Nations against the activities of ISIS and similar terrorist organisations to take necessary measures in accordance with their responsibilities in the framework of the United Nations Security Council and international law. Given all these factors, it has also been our obligation to take additional measures against threats and dangers from the security vacuum in Iraq and Syria as well as international law as necessary, as it is necessary for our national security to continue the risks that have first been extended six times in 2007 and which have only extended the Syrian conflict once in 2012 and that new elements have been activated. Turkey, which refers to the protection of Iraq's territorial integrity, national unity and stability, has to continue by increasing military, political and diplomatic measures and initiatives against terrorist groups' presence in Iraq and threats. On the other hand, there are increasing risks and threats from the regime's four-year violence policies in Syria in terms of humanitarian, regional security and stability. The regime continues its attacks on civilians with no distinction and no exception in resorting to any heavy weapons. It also follows a policy that aims to turn social differences into actual conflict by supporting terrorist groups, exploiting ethnic and religious belonging, in order to maintain its rule without legitimacy. The security crisis, which the Syrian regime has encouraged them to operate in areas close to our country, has deepened as part of their search for influence by terrorist groups. Thanks to the support and cooperation of the Assad regime, the terrorist groups in Syria have also moved their actions to Iraq, leading to chaos and instability. Therefore, the scope of threats from the Syrian regime has expanded with the threat of terrorism, making regional and international peace a serious threat to security and stability. Turkey is the country of the region, which is at its highest risk and threat. Turkey cannot be expected to be indifferent to these risks and threats. So far, many of our citizens have lost their lives in Syrian attacks. The regime continues to move towards our country in search of a safe haven for civilian citizens trapped between the violence policy and the pressure of terrorist elements. Depending on the trajectory of the conflict environment in Syria, the scope of the migration movement is likely to expand and reach mass size. The Syrian regime's aggressive policies, including ballistic missiles, are continuing to aggravate the destruction caused by heavy weapons attacks on our country. The regime did not conclude the destruction of chemical weapons supplies and production facilities in its possession in accordance with the United Nations Security Council Resolution 2118 (2013). In addition, the report by the Data Collecting Mission of Chemical Weapons found that chlorine gas was being used systematicly and exponentially in Syria, while the United Nations International Independent Syrian Research Commission reported that it was resorting to chlorine gas in the regime's attacks, showing the level of threat to national interests by killing more than 200,000 people from the regime. On the other hand, under international law, the risk of security at the Süleyman Shah Respect Station, which is considered Turkish territory, has increased. All developments mentioned above confirm that Turkey is the country most affected by any attack by the regime and terrorist groups, as well as the uncertainty and chaos in Syria. In this framework, it is important to determine and implement the necessary measures in accordance with our rights due to international law, against any threat or action that could endanger our national security. To protect Turkey's high interests effectively and to protect and protect Turkey's high interests in the direction of international law, to eliminate attacks on our country from all terrorist organisations in Iraq and Syria and other possible risks, such as mass migration, and to ensure that its safety should be maintained during the crisis and then possible developments, during and in the direction of the crisis and after which possible developments, to ensure that it will be used by the Turkish authorities in order to ensure that an immediate and dynamic policy will be followed, according to the course of developments, and that the threat to all foreign forces will be put into place, and will be put into place in order to ensure that every possible situation. Members of parliament, there is a motion to vote in the form of an open vote. I'll have the motion read and call the signers. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Your index is 143. In accordance with the clause, we propose that the vote of the current Prime Minister's Office be held in the form of an open vote. Engin Altay Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi Malik Ecder Özdemir Aydın Ayan Ayyadın Müslim Sarı Turhan Tayan Aytun Çıray İlhan Demirözıs Ali Serindağ Vahab Selects Bült Kuşoğlu Sinan Aydın Aygün Fatma Nur Serter Yıdiray Sapan Ahmet Toptaş Haluk Eyidoğan Gürkut Acar Ramadan Kerim Özkan I'm going to call the signers now. Engin Altay? Here. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi? Here. Malik Ecder Özdemir? Here. Aydın Agha Ayadın...
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0144par0452	I can't help it.
tbmm-2014-10-02sit03spe0143par0453	Müslim Sarı? Here. Turhan Tayan? Here. Vacay Chooses? Here. Bulent Kuşoglu? Here. Ilhan Demiröz? Here. Sinan Aygün? Here. Ali Serindağ? Here. Ahmet Topstone? Here. The Star Trencher? Here. Nur Serter? Here. Haluk Eyiborn? Here. Kamer Young? Here. Gürkut Acar? Here. Ramadan Kerim Özkan? Here. Hülya Trust? Here. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. An open vote will be carried out by electronic device, according to the decision taken. I'll give you three minutes to vote. I'd also like to ask the ministers, who will vote as acting minister, who will vote as acting minister, to deliver the compass to the presidency within the same time. I'm starting the voting process. [[The electronic device started voting.]] I read the power vested in the presidency: Minister of Justice Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, Minister of Health Mehmet Muezzinoglu instead of Mr. Milli Defence Minister Ismet Yılmaz, Minister of Education Nabi Avcı instead of Food, Agriculture and Animalism Minister Mehmet Simsek, Minister of Environment and Urbanism Idris Gulluce, Minister of Family and Social Policy Ayşenur, Minister of Forest and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu, Minister of Labour and Social Security, Minister of Economy Nihat Zebekci, Deputy Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, Deputy Prime Minister of Prime Minister Ahmet Davutin Yadek, and Deputy Prime Minister of Environment and Social Policys Akkan instead of Islam. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] As a result of the open vote by the Prime Minister's Office: ▪ Number of Votes Used: 396 [[x]] Muhammad Bilal Macit Muharrem Light Congressmans, according to the verdict, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (October 14th 2014) to discuss verbal question motions. I'm closing the meeting at 00, and I wish everyone a happy holiday.
