tbmm-2014-11-04sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 9th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, before starting the talks, we must go to closed session session to be read according to Article 71 of the Interior Charter, which is held in the 137th and 138th session of September 9, 2014. Therefore, I'd like to ask the MPs and those who may be present at the General Assembly Hall to clear the hall except for sworn stenographers and sworn officers. After the transcripts have been read, open session will be held and talks will continue. I'd like to ask your supervisors to assist in this matter and inform the presidency after the hall is cleared. Mr. Gök, the group congratulates you on your election as acting president, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit01spe0002par0008	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit01spe0001par0009	I'm calling this session off.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 9th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey after the closed session. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement is from Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı, who wants to talk to us about our 18 workers being trapped by a flood in a mine in Karaman Ermenek district. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0003par0009	Mr. President, I have been promised a disaster caused by a flood in a coal mine in the district of Ermenek, Karaman. I salute you all. Eight of the 26 brothers in Ermenek County who were in the coal mine where a private company ran a mine near the south of the village of Pamuklu were saved by the flood, and 18 have been left stranded. By the time we entered the 8th day, it was a hundred and seventy-one hours later, but 18 of our brothers were still unreachable. The government's resources have been mobilized to save our workers, who are 300 feet below the ground, and the hard work is being done. The water in the stove is almost drained, but it is tried to remove the clay that reaches 20 meters [20 m]. Dear MPs, I'm from Ermenek. As soon as the painful news was heard, we arrived at the site for investigation, research, support and assistance as the party of the National Movement Party, which we formed under the direction of our President, State Gardener. All the energy, all the work, all the prayer and hope we've led our 18 brothers out of the ground. Ermenek Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has launched a criminal investigation into the matter. According to the prosecutor's office's statement yesterday, the preliminary report issued by the expert team said that the disaster was caused by a sudden flood of water in the area of a heel that has weakened the pressure threshold over time over the years in the old manufacturing area. In the irresponsibility of this disaster, in the neglect, in the circles of inconsistencies, we will, of course, do what is necessary as the National Movement Party to do the necessary procedures for those who are involved. We're going to ask the authorities and the authorities why they haven't seen and why they haven't taken precautions over the years, why their manufacturing map and plans haven't been followed in a healthy way, why they've also caused the government to smuggle 40-dollar coal, perhaps 40-days of the government's financial burden, how workers are allowed and how they're allowed to produce near water-filled furnaces, how they're allowed and how they're allowed to produce, how they can prevent such events, why they haven't taken precautions over the years, why they haven't set up an effective control system, why they haven't been set up, why they't run an effective inspection system, why they're running a show inspection, why they're running the financial charge of the government for 45 days, and how they're rework between employees between the firms and the firms, and how they're allowed to do this, and the firms done their jobs, and how they've been handled by the firms staffs for eight hours, and the authorities, and the staffs staffs staffs staffs staff, who's staff. We'll do what we need to do to investigate, investigate and investigate all aspects of the matter. When the President and Prime Minister arrived in the region, all roads and roads were secured, and my vehicle was stopped several times. For their own safety, we will ask, of course, why are thousands of police and gendarmes not taking the necessary measures to ensure that our workers work safely on the mountain, on the stone, on the mountain, on the ground? When we close the stove, the employer activates 50 people. We will surely ask the minister for an account. In order to correct the situation, the minister cut the bill to the workers, to the shopkeepers, and set an example for the workers in Ermenek. Yes, my Ermenek brothers must work, and your duty as a government is to provide a safe working environment. Those who build a palace for themselves for $1 billion, $370 million -- those who build a palace for $1 quadrillion, $370 trillion -- those who buy new planes for $185 million, those who rule in pleasure, must, of course, account for why they do not provide the workers with a safe working environment. In Ermenek, the people of the region are taking their bread out of the coal. Around 1,500 workers work in 11 coal companies. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There is no other job for Ermaneklı to work to support his family and pay their debts. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0004par0020	Thank you. The second word outside the agenda belongs to İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz, who wants to talk about combat month, Kerbela and ashure. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0005par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. ▪ Loved menem with your husband, I'm sorry, Huseyin. It's my hemisphere rotor menem, Yanaram shumu seher sein. Muharremin's here again. Your name has fallen on the tongue, His son, the messenger Hussein. The oppressed, the martyr, the thirsty Hussein. Peace be upon Seyid-i Şehedah, and Shah Kerbala, and Salam from Bedir, and Kerbala, and Kerbala, and Çanakkale, and all the martyrs. Hail to this great assembly, and to this beautiful nation, which we can remember in this beautiful nation's beautiful coven, Imam Hussein. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are in the month of combat, yesterday was the day of the ashram, the 10th day of the battle, the anniversary of the Kerbala case. I know that I am sure that everyone in this House -- like my people, will suffer the month of Hanefi, Shafi, Alevi, Jaferi, Jaferi, as much as I do -- will be burned by Imam Huseyin, and respect his people, and will spend the month of battle sad. This shows the beauty, the beauty, the beauty of our people, this land, this Anatolian land. The idea of Islam of this land is not like Emevi Arab understanding. So if the Sunni of this country had been in Jaferi, and the Jaferi of the land in Kerbala, he would have been in the ranks of Imam Hussein, not Yezid. Because while Yazid represented darkness, violence, oppression, corruption, corruption, Azad Imam Hussein represented Islam, the true Islam, the true Islam, which God had delivered through the Messenger of God through God, Islam, beauty, righteousness, dignity, freedom, freedom, and my people are on that side. In fact, Imam Hussein has maintained the honor of mankind in Kerbela, which has saved the honor of mankind, because according to our belief, man is the most honorable of all creations, the emancipation, the soul of God. It is He who makes man human. His honour, his honour, his rebellion against injustice. The greatest jihad is to be able to speak the truth in the face of the tyrant, in the face of the cruel ruler. The moment you do that, you become human, and if you lose that, you lose your humanity. In Kerbala, therefore, the Holy Imam Hussein represented and earned the honor of mankind, freedom, and silence in the face of injustice. Why did he win? Because while Yazid is being called a curse today, Imam Hussein is being praised with respect. The first act of Yazid for three years, the first act of his reign, the martyring of the son of the prophet in Kerbala, his second act, the blood of thousands of prophets who took refuge in the Masjidi Nebevi, in Medina, and all three days to his army, all things lawful, including the honor of the prophet's officer, and the third deed of Mecca, is to stone and destroy him with catapults and to destroy him in his grave. Thus, for power's sake, humans can sometimes slaughter even the son of the prophet. When we come to this day, we must learn this lesson that even today those who represent that sense of Yazeid are standing in the way of Allahu Akbar. Fortunately, our country is far from that understanding, that twisted understanding. May Allah not destroy the unity of our country and our nation, and I salute the assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0006par0042	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Istanbul MP İbrahim Yiğit. Here you go, Mr. Hero.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0007par0047	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to combat. On this occasion, I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before I speak, I wish patience and patience to all the relatives of our fellow workers in the mining disaster of Konya Ermenek. It's our greatest wish that these events, which are deeply upsetting to all of us, will not happen again. Dear lawmakers, on the occasion of the month of battle, I wish to present this year, as every year, that the brutal human drama in Kerbela would not happen in our country or in the world. The Kerbala events, which have taken place in our history as a crime of humanity, are also considered a month of mourning and mourning in our Muslim society for the massacre of 73 lives of Imam Hussein and many women. Our wish is that this mourning will remind us of the events of that day and that it will serve to strengthen the feelings of brotherhood, tolerance, and co-existence by bringing together people of different ethnic origins and sects. Because our human history has never achieved anything from ethnic and religious conflicts. Dear lawmakers, another similar human drama is happening in our geography today. This terrorist organization, which is thought to have been directed by certain forces, is not acting in the name of Islam, nor in the name of humanity. Those who want to take advantage of the bloodshed and weakness of our territory are doomed to perish in their Middle East swamp. No country, ethnic group or sect must be a tool for the chaos that people live in as brothers and those who are uncomfortable with the existence of a powerful region. Honourable lawmakers find the essence of their household with human love and accept all thoughts as a human right. He doesn't despise anyone because of their faith. It is the knowledge, the friendship, the mercy, the equality, and the bringing out of the righteous. As Haci Bektas Veli (Hajji) said, the greatest book to read is man. Our way is based on knowledge, wisdom, and love of mankind. The events of Kerbela have caused dozens of innocent people to lose their lives because of the power and power of all these values. Congressmans, as I mentioned earlier, faith is a very sensitive issue for both communities and the ferts. No one in the community would want to interfere with his faith. At this point today, all groups of beliefs and sects within our country are taking serious steps to live more freely in their own beliefs and philosophy. The Alevi society, which has been subjected to pressure and ignored over the years, has been able to express itself in recent years and to discuss many problems and demands with the state. Some of the problems that were previously unresolved have been solved, others have been tried to solve over time. The important thing is the sincere and sincere approach to the solution. As Lord Ali said, there is truth from conflict of opinion. Acting with a common mind will make the solution to problems even easier, or it is clear that unwanted conflicts and tensions will not benefit anyone. Honourable MPs are for 73 people who have been killed in Kerbala with Imam Hussein, who have been without water for days, and who have been brutally slaughtered in Kerbala. History will never erase this human drama from the pages, nor will it forgive the oppressors. As for Imam Hussein and his ethos, they will continue to guard their place in history as a symbol of honorable resistance to those who persecute man. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, as I end my words, I say to all of you, it is the duty and responsibility of everyone as human beings to defend life against death, in the hope that the peace and peace of society in our country and in our region will live in peace and in peace, especially because of recent events.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0008par0056	Thank you. Mr. Sky, please, you have a request.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0009par0060	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, I'd like to say that we have met the attack on the member of the People's Democratic Party's Party's Party at noon today with great sadness and infinitiveness, and that it would be better for the People's Democratic Party. The way this attack was launched, a part of it that worries us and makes us think. It's a joy that the attacker was captured, but given the way and the method of the attack, we expect a very careful investigation of his back and a truly enlightening explanation of this matter by law enforcement forces. We've been following the matter carefully. Mr. President, today is November 4, 2014. Eighty-six years ago, on 3 November 1928, the Law on the Acceptance and Tatiki of Turkish Letters was issued and passed into the Turkish alphabet. With the introduction of the alphabet, with the opening of national schools in our country and the release of Arabic and Persian sovereignty for all Turkey, our citizens in Turkey have suddenly met the new alphabet and increased the rate of reading and writing. One of the most important of the Ataturk revolutions is the letter revolution that took place eighty-six years ago. Again, in the same way, on November 4, 1922, on November 4, 1922, three days before that, with the removal of sovereignty on November 1, 1922, the reign of the ruling government of Tevfik Pasha on November 4, 1922, the Turkish Grand National Assembly was now legitimate and the only government of Turkey, and I saw that it was appropriate to speak of this issue today as a day when the foundation of modern civilization was laid down on the public. I salute you all and the great Ataturk.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0010par0066	Thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0011par0069	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers were registered at secondary schools this year with TEOG scores for upper secondary schools. Private schools registered with another score calculated by action from data based on TEOG points. The special Üskudar American High School, located in İstanbul, also filled its 168-strong quota. The student scored with the lowest score, including the 168-strong quota of the special Üsküdar American High School. After the registration period was closed, a student's guardian, who had acquired media power behind him, leaned on this power and registered a student with 782 points, even though he did not deserve it, through the Ministry of National Education and the National Education Office. This is a recording that violates the rights of other students and takes away their rights. He said the TEOG score should be based on the Ministry of National Education. With a TEOG score, this student has a score of 477. Over that score, both TEOG points and private school points, but the right of students who have not enrolled in this school and other private schools has been eliminated, has been defeated. The student parents are in a great state of improvisation, a great rebellion. If it is thought to be a mistake made by private schools, then all students above 477 TEOG must make the necessary arrangements for the Ministry of National Education to register at these schools. For one person, I condemn this arrangement only to meet the wishes of that student parent. I'm also seeing the Minister of National Education in the General Assembly's office, and I hope Mr. Secretary will make a statement on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0012par0074	Thank you. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0013par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, a multi-planned and organised attack on our target party has been launched in Ankara this morning. Mr. Ahmet Karataş, our member of the Party Assembly, was attacked by a knife in the HDP district building at around 9:30 a.m., and our friend is currently struggling to live in the hospital. We, the People's Democratic Party, repeat from here that this attack on the heart of Ankara is planned, organized and organised. Our party has been clearly targeted for days. This attack is the result of a lynching campaign against our party. We have made it clear that despite all our warnings, the government officials and some columnists, including the media bodies close to the government, have set the stage for today's attack, despite the fact that our co-chair, our party, our deputies, our executives, and the broadcasts have been uninterrupted, despite all our warnings. We condemn and condemn this dark attack and its focus behind it as the Democratic Party of Peoples, who have created the ground for this attack. We urge the government, who has made HDP a target, to give up this attitude as soon as possible, and to shed light on this brutal attack as soon as possible. Again, Mr. President, especially as a country, these days, where politics is tense, unfortunately, we are shaken by the news of a passing death each day due to neglect and ill omens. On October 27th, we share with our people the sadness and grief that 18 mining workers were still buried because of a flood in a mine in Ermenek district of Karaman. We're also going to submit a research motion that we've prepared for this matter to the General Assembly. We repeat today the call for this House to take initiative regarding these almost routine job killings. Again, on October 31st, we share our grief, our grief with our people for the loss of the lives of 18 workers as a result of the overthrow of an agrarian bus, an apple harvester near the Yalvaç district of Isparta. 24 immigrants died yesterday as a result of the sinking of a boat in the Bosphorus. Of all these deaths, we, the People's Democratic Party, share our grief with our people, to all those who have lost their lives, to God's mercy, to his family, and to all our people. Finally, for the sake of Kerbala, we honor Shah Hussein, Kerbela, and his companions who are walking to Hakkk for the sake of rights today, we wish to convey that we share and salute the fast and the mourning that our people hold in memory of the resistance to Kerbala, or the mourning that they bind in the name of the People's Democratic Party. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0014par0086	Thank you. Mr. Row, please.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0015par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. And I strongly condemn today's violence in front of the People's Democratic Party. There's no way to approve of violence. And I wish the wounded to get well, to get well soon. Under public order, public authorities have captured the perpetrator, along with the weapon of the crime. We wish you well again. I'd like to say again that I don't understand the comparison of this petty incident to the criticism and identity of HDP. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are celebrating the first week of November as organ donor week. I want to remind you once again that this week is very important in our country. An organ donation is by choice allowing tissue and organs to be used to treat other diseases after the medical end of life while the person is alive. More than 20,000 people in our country need transplants to sustain their lives. In particular, patients who are waiting for a heart, liver transplant die shortly because it is not affordable and not enough donors. The increase in our people's sensitivity to organ donation means that we can also find organs when we need them. Sadly, we can only recognize the importance of giving when we are buyers. On the occasion of November 3-9 organ donation week, we sincerely support the participation of all our people in the organ donation. Also, this week is the week of Children with Leukemia. The leukaemia known among the public is commonly known as the cancer of a single cell caused by bone marrow, and then by dividing it into a mass and then invading bone marrow, and then all the organs. Leukemia is one of the most likely cures of childhood cancers. With modern-day treatment protocols, acute leukemia has a 70-75 percent chance of treatment in general. In some form of leukemia, this rate is up to 90 percent. In our country, any treatment for leukemia is done under the most modern conditions and much cheaper than abroad. On this occasion, I ask God to heal all our brothers who are struggling with leukemia. I salute your committee.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0016par0094	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0017par0097	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've heard the need to make a brief statement regarding the incident mentioned by Mr. Hamzacebi. In fact, there is more information on the subject, Mr. Hamzacebi. Because two days ago, when he told me on the phone that he and I were involved, I told him that I would look into the situation, too, and if there was any irregularity in it, and if there was a mistake or flaw in the National Department of Education bureaucracy, I would investigate it, and I would investigate it. I looked into it. I've talked to almost all the relevant parties myself. Here's the thing: once the procedure is done, there's nothing against regulations in transferring the child from one school to another, from Saint-Joseph to the American High School. Because according to the regulations, private schools have to determine what criteria they're going to receive. In our meetings with the Special Schools Association, we've already told them that all private schools can't create a parallel admission system that will create an alternative to our placement system in our public schools, but not every private school has its own criteria. That's what regulations allow. What was suspicious here was whether the student's records were open at the time of the transfer from Saint-Joseph to U.S. High School, and whether or not there was an unconfirmed recording. I got the computer records from this student, and there's no irregularities there, so normally, it's in accordance with the regulations. However, even if it is not officially seen, I also spoke with school chairman Ilter Turan Bey, to see if it was carried out by pressure from the bureaucracy, or by the way you made it clear, that the process might have been carried out. On the basis of such suspicions, if possible, they should pause the recording a little bit... but don't record the information I've been given. It's recorded, though we call it. I'll look into it, and then you can clear the record. It's also done by the school in accordance with the registration regulations. Later, I learned that not only was it registered, but the school also signed the financial contract with the student parent, which, if I remember correctly, also took the 40 grand. Now, while these recordings are being done this way, there's also a question mark on this issue by taking back the power of another media group. I don't know how much of the work Mr. Hamzacebi is aware of, actually, that both media groups are involved, so both media groups, like, are arm wrestling on our backs with each other. We, as the Ministry of National Education, do not allow this. We approve of jobs that are in accordance with regulations, and when we suspect an improper job, we conduct the necessary investigation. I've done my research on this, and that's what I'm getting at. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0018par0101	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0019par0102	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0018par0103	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0019par0104	Sir, the information the Minister has given has been extremely sketchy, extremely superficial, and my statement has led to another interpretation of it. Because of the bullying, I want word on Article 69.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0018par0105	I promised him your place, but what did he say to you, Mr. Hamzacebi?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0019par0106	Sir, Mr. Minister says that Mr. Hamzacebi is saying that there is no truth in what Mr. Hamzacebi said, but that there is a code of conduct...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0018par0107	Here you go, two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0020par0108	It's not true. He didn't say it.!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0019par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the information the Minister has given is not true. There is an article written by the Istanbul National Education Directorate at the Special Baseküdar American College, and the article has a basis for the truth. Here's the article, written by Murat Altınöz, Deputy National Education Director of the State. To the National Education Directorate of Sküküdar District. The Üsküdar District National Education Directorate has submitted the same article to the school directorate. It says in the article: it's illegal to register students with lower scores than the student left on the reserve list. First of all, the student isn't on the bench. The student's score was 782, the last to go down to 789. There's obviously some irregularity. If you're taking the 782-point student there -- and they're taking him out of the box, Mr. Secretary, you know very well that the quota is 168 people, filling in, going there as 169, and going there after the registration period -- then you're going to announce to all students above 782 points, and you're going to say, "This school has made this application wrong. Let all the students who are above this score register here, and let them come. Those who come will come, and those who don't come will not come. It's clearly irregular, Mr. Secretary. On Sunday, yes, I spoke to you on the phone. You told me a little bit different, so you used a statement that I might be right, but today you're saying the opposite. I must say, I'm sorry about that. This student has nothing to do with it. After all, that's where his guardian, the media power, is based on his guardian. In another media, he sees this injustice as news, not a struggle between the two media forces. No, the other newspaper, the Hurriyet newspaper, raises injustice. I'll keep bringing it up. No one will be able to cover up this illegality. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0021par0120	Yes, thank you. Congressmans, we also condemn the attack on the People's Democratic Party, asking for immediate cures for our wounded citizens, and we find the perpetrator to be a delight.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0022par0124	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0021par0125	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0022par0128	Now, the Department of National Education's investigation, the investigation on this matter, is what I just said. However, I also know that this will be a matter of trial, as there are parents who are applying at the moment. Let's wait, the regulations are there, the procedures are there. Let's see the outcome of the lawsuits, and then we'll all see who's right. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0021par0130	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0023par0131	Minister, will you meet the demands of the other parents who have applied, sir?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0022par0132	Sir?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0023par0133	So you're gonna pay for what's on top of that score?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0022par0134	It's very clear in the regulations under which special schools will receive students.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0024par0135	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are resignations from the commissions, I'm having them read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Due to my election as Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group, I am resigning as a member of the Human Rights Review Commission. I'll give you what you need. Yours truly. 03/11/2014 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning as a member of the Constitutional Commission. I'll give you what you need. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Foreign policy and statements followed by the Foreign Minister have shaken the local economies of our districts from Mersin to Şırnak and endangered human life. Therefore, we propose and propose the establishment of a parliamentary research commission under the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution 98 and Civil Law. 4/10/2012 [[Paddles]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] 4) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Sakarya]] 6) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Lug]] [[Mersin]] [[Kastamon]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] [[Inconceived]] [[Inconceived]] [[Erzurum]] [[Ankara]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 17) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] 18) Edip Semih Yalçın [[Gaziantep]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] bilateral relations with Syria, which came with the comments and policies of Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, have caused serious economic losses in our provinces in intensive trade relations with this country, and the death and life of the people in our district of Akchakale. According to the Economy Ministry's data, Turkey's exports to Syria declined 13 per cent in 2011 compared to a year ago. Economic woes in Hatay, Gaziantep, Kilis, Mardin, Şırnak and Adana, particularly Mersin, began to emerge in trade relations with Syria. The trade with Syria has been done with Adana, Hatay, Kilis, Mardin, Şırnak and Gaziantep, but the companies and trades in Mersin have been especially harmful. A total of 50,178 tourists arrived in 2010, when an Arab tourist explosion occurred between 2006 and 2010. In 2011, the number was reduced to 8.774. The number of Syrian, Jordanian and Lebanese tourists who preferred Mersin is also expressed by tourists who dropped in 2012. The exports of food, construction materials and furniture from Adana to Syria have been carried out significantly, while the exporting companies in Adana are no longer able to sell goods, with the tightening of bilateral trade. Similarly, in 2010, 1,33,571 people entered Gaziantep from customs gates, but in 2011 the number dropped to 804.343. Economic losses in the shipping sector have risen to significant rates. Hatay Lorelai has lost his function due to broken relations with the Border Gate. Many movers who renew their vehicles during the time of good relations with Syria are often expressed in the region where they are in debt to financial institutions but the movers are unable to pay their debts. For reasons explained in Syria, we propose and propose the establishment and establishment of the research commission under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate the negative effects of the civil unrest and the corruption of bilateral political ties in Mersin to Şırnak, to investigate the local economies of our provinces. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Due to the reflection of events in Syria, Hatay, we propose and propose the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate and determine measures to be taken in other provinces, particularly in the region. Yours truly. 2/10/2014 1) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Mersin]] [[Kayseri]] [[Sakarya]] [[Kütahya]] 6) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Antalya]] 8) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Paddles]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[Inconceived]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Yozgat]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kastamon]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 23) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] Because of the events in Hatay, the city of tolerance, which has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize with the Choir of Civilities, where three heavenly religions have been living together for centuries now, in Syria. Turkey-Suriye relations, based on the Friendship Dam in order to prevent floods in the Rebel River about a year and a half ago, have been corrupted by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu's opposition to Syrian President Bezar Assad following the political crisis in Syria. Specially, the asylum of armed opposition groups in Turkey and the allegations that the government in the Turkish Prime Minister's Office has helped these groups with weapons, military education have led to the end of trade, diplomatic, economic ties with Syria. Since Hatay was the head of our country's cities leading the fields of exports, narcissism, agricultural production, trade and international transportation until a year ago, his economy became a dead-end because of this tense situation. The security incidents caused by those who fled Syria and sought refuge in Turkey outside of tent cities, the alleged day-to-day camp for the members of the Free Syrian Army to stay at night, cross the border to fight at night, the armed groups from Libya under the refugee shield, they are working to overthrow the Syrian regime, the Free Syrian Army has addressed Hatay as its base centre, and all sorts of public service in Hatay have been given priority to Syrian asylum seekers, including those with money, creating a living space outside the camps, where they have built mobile hospitals and medicines and other support from the government, including the opposition, has been forced to investigate the opposition's opposition, and will be investigated by the opposition's opposition, as well as well as well as well as possible. Citizens living in the region, including Gaziantep, Kilis, Kahramanmarash and Adıyaman, live with concerns about life and property security, and the number of citizens receiving depression treatment in the region is increasing every day. It would be the right practice for Turkey's well-being if the TBM would conduct a study of Turkey's impacts and assist the government on measures to be taken. On this basis, we propose and propose that Parliamental research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Administration. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the opening of Parliamental research on Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, especially in order to determine the measures to be taken by investigating the problems of substance abuse and trafficking. With all due respect. 2/10/2012 1) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Kayseri]] [[Sakarya]] 4) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Antalya]] [[Kütahya]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Inconceived]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Erzurum]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Yozgat]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Kastamon]] [[İstanbul]] 21) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Paddles]] In recent years, terms such as "drug danger, drug problem" in our country have often been found in terms such as "drug policies, "impressive prevention activities, ▪rehabilization," but have never been able to prevent the use of drugs and recreational substances. Drug addiction has become widespread not only among our young people, but even among elementary school children, and according to the Security General Directorate's data, the age of users being treated for substance abuse is unfortunately reduced to 12 years. Again, in the same data, the age of those who were treated to meet the first drug reveals the bitter truth. According to this, 10.72 per cent of those receiving treatments are less than 15 years old, 15 to 19 per cent 15 to 19 per cent, 28.5 per cent 20-24 per cent, 14.17% 25-29 per cent, 6.97 per cent between 30-34 and 4.3 per cent between 35 and 59 years old. With the widespread use of the Internet, young people have become easy prey for drug traffickers. The difficulty with controlling the sale of drugs and stimulants in the virtual environment has made it easier for these substances to be bought; the search for adventure, friend environments, lack of education and socioeconomic factors have become a threat to early and middle-school teenagers. Official data shows that despite the decline in heroin, cannabis use is rapidly increasing in Turkey as a frightening fact. The increase in cannabis seized in Turkey by 249% in the past five years has also revealed the extent of the threat to our country from 2009 to the rapid increase in methamphetamine use, known as one of the most dangerous drugs ever seen in Turkey until recently. Another threat to drugs, on the other hand, is that the most important funding sources of terrorist organisations are drug trafficking. These hands, who poison young people, who shoot at our soldiers with their bloody hands, are not far behind in committing prostitution, murder, theft, any petty crime that they make drug addicts. The scariest, by the way, is that until a few years ago, Turkey was only a transit country in drug trafficking and shipments, while it was also an important producer country. A recent report in a national broadcast agency is a major problem when drug traffickers raise cannabis recklessly under the control of a terrorist organization in the rural region between Diyarbakır and Bingol, and 80 villages and mezzanines are a bed of marijuana. As a result, we demand that a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution be opened under Articles 98 and Article 104 of the Civil Code, in order to investigate and identify measures that need to be taken, due to the widespread use of drugs, the descent of the age limit, and the fact that drug trafficking can't be prevented despite attempts to fight effectively in our country. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Association of Women and Men's Opportunity and the Commissions for Public Economic Oppositions also have a membership for lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. Lawmakers who want to run for these commissions, who are not members of the political party group, are on Monday (November 10th 2014) at 18 p.m. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has three papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation of the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Cemil Cicek, will make an official visit to Georgia to respond to the invitation of Georgian Parliament Speaker David Usupashvili. It is submitted to the 6th amendment of the General Assembly on the regulation of the Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A parliamentary seminar will be held on November 12, 2014 by the Jordanian House of Representatives and the Minored and Light Weapons Parliamentary Forum on "The Spreading of Small and Light Weapons: Responsibility, Danger and Opportunities for the Middle East and North African States." The issue of accession to the seminar is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly On 21 November 2014, a seminar by the European Parliament's Anti-Accession Action Unit will be held in Tirana on "Proper Rights, Segregation Law and LGBTI (Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual, transsexual, intersexual) Protection of Sensitive Groups." The issue of accession to the seminar is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday/11/2014 (today), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. The agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been proposed to co-operate with the General Assembly on Tuesday 4/11/20 for the opening of a parliamentary survey of measures that should be investigated in all dimensions of "the recent deaths of workers" (10/820), part of the section for General Assembly and Parliament Research. People's Democratic Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Sebahat Tucson, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0025par0367	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our group's research motion. I salute you all. And before I go into my views on the matter, I once again remember Shah Hussein, Kerbela, and his comrades, who walked for justice a thousand and three hundred years ago on the cause of fasting, and in fact, this resistance that they have brought forth, to resist the oppressor, never to be near the oppressed, never bowing down or kneeling down, I would like to say again today that there is hope for humanity. In fact, the group, on this occasion, also condemned the attack on our party, and I think it's important. As of this morning, a member of the HDP Party Assembly was asked to be killed by a slit throat. Our friend is a Kurdish Flame. I don't know if it's a coincidence, but we think it's very important that an attack like this happened on our friend during the time of the Kerbela incident. We've talked a lot on this stand especially about ISIS's attack on both Kurds, the Turks, the Arabs, the Assyrians... and finally Kobani's methods of genocide against the people of Kobani in Kobani were actually used by head cutting, harassment, rape... which reflected images. In fact, I'd like to point out that there's a side to this approach that shows that we're not safe. I wish our friend a speedy recovery. If he'd gotten away with it and had another two inches around his neck, he wouldn't be alive now. He should be out of surgery by now. In fact, in terms of Turkey, this is something that should be on the agenda of the Parliament, not only of the HDP, but of the Parliament itself. Dear lawmakers, we've talked too much about working health, safety at work on this bench, and once again we're bringing up a motion for research. Where there's death, we're always trying to bring it up with a research proposal. Let's just say from the top, this research proposal is not going to be accepted, and it looks like it's going to be, because the power is actually saying no to every motion we've made on this subject. But we'd like to remind you that we don't just have to go to the dead, to the workers' dead, to stand guard at the mine gates, but to deliver the dead to their families, we have to do things to keep them alive. I mean, that's how it is with us women, when women die, we're tired of going and carrying them to the graves, of carrying coffins, of carrying labor coffins. Not six months ago, dear friends, there's been a disaster like Soma in this country, 301 workers buried alive. We said then, "Come on, let's do something serious here. Let's do something serious. There's no more mining accidents here, so we can do whatever we want to do with the non-employees. The general policy of the AKP government, the approach to getting a runt on everything, unfortunately, was put in the bag because it was founded from here, not from this murder, from the massacre of workers, not from preventing the massacre of workers, but from getting a runt from here. Not only did the workers make a comprehensive assessment of the problem of the workers, but in the bag, where they did not protect the workers, but how to protect the bosses more. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, the AKP has been in power for 12 years. Why do you always hold us responsible? We also say good things, but when we look at the painting, unfortunately, we can't say good things. At least 14.455 workers lost their lives in 12 years and 160 workers in October alone. Which is exactly what we're dealing with when you think about non-mortal business accidents because of business accidents. See, in 2002, 146 workers, 811 workers in 2003, 843 workers in 2004 -- if you will notice -- 1,096 in 2005 and 1,600 workers in the first ten months of 2014. I mean, these are the issues that the House itself has to deal with and deal with. But so far, we've made a lot more laws, haven't we? Well, when we meet with the Minister of Labor and Social Security, we're going to solve problems. THE textile workers still haven't received their wages, the workers are still dying, they're still dying. Dear friends, look, there's an incident in Ermenek. If you remember, when the Soma disaster happened, we said: "Let the whole mine be stopped, let the heavy labor arm be stopped, let the work be started when it is safe to do so." Of course, people want to work, they have to work to live in this country, but first you have to create safe places. Go to people and die without creating safe places, which means people are going to die on purpose, which is very interesting. Did you ever follow the media when people in Turkey knew the mines were unsafe? The words of the Soma mine disaster are almost the same as the words of Ermenek. Everyone says: "We knew, in fact, that it came on purpose, that it came on purpose, that it came on purpose, that it was like this, that it was almost the same sentence. Put the media's things down, they're the same, dear friends. Look, the incident in Isparta, it's a terrible thing. Now, in a van of 25-26, you will take 46-47 people. It's even said that 81 people, 87 people were on board. Now, there's no control over any of this. Seasonal farm workers, that's his tragedy. Where's he looking? There's a saying, "Gets up small, looks at big." The citizen looks at power from there, because it's all for profit: how can I make a profit? Let's reduce the number of vans, put them all together. Here, dear friends, 15 of our citizens lost their lives while they went to pick apples. I mean, behind him, you know, Zonguldak, he's giving us SOS. In Turkey, the class strugglers warn it, as the unions act each day, as they do the event. This government has also disabled NGOs and occupational organisations working in this area. Look, all professional reports are realistic because the government doesn't take that into account. In fact, he's cut off another audit. You don't supervise yourself, you don't supervise the Ministry, you go and the people that the Ministry has sent out for inspection, you go and get involved with the boss, and the boss's report says, "All right." But other than that, you don't count civilian, independent institutions' reports or audits. Is that even possible? We've made a lot of laws here. We either approved it or we didn't approve it, so we have a responsibility. From here, we remind our fellow lawmakers once again that if the law can't be passed and the massacre can't be stopped, there's a problem if death can't be stopped. Then let's investigate this problem together. Once again, let's look at what a disaster this whole world has brought on us -- these neoliberal policies, flexible work, unsecured work, subcontractor work, off-the-books work. Let's not be partisans, let's do this in all areas, from Şırnak to Zonguldak. Let's start with heavy labor, especially mining, starting with shipyards. Are we going to talk about it every day when there are deaths? So we're going to make a comprehensive assessment of this, we're going to do some research on this, and we're going to make a law on this... look, what's Parliament doing? First he makes the law, then he makes the law again to correct the law. I guess no law has ever been passed as much as the AKP ruling period. Is that even possible? Dear lawmakers, I tell you, especially the MPs of the ruling party, that your only job is not to raise your hand, but to approve it without knowing what it is; it is also your responsibility. From here, we believe that every member of parliament, of his own volition, must stop these workers' deaths. If this is not done, if there is no comprehensive assessment, there will be serious problems here. Dear friends, it's a matter of mentality. What perspective are you looking at, where do you look at the worker, whether it's the boss's gain or the worker's health that matters to you? So far, what is important in the perspective of power is to fulfill the promise of money, money, money, and Napoleon. To make more money, to force all kinds of conditions, to open every area to the Ranta; so let's say that we can't take precautions on working health as well. Is there a mine in Turkey alone? Why can't there be mining accidents in other parts of the world, so many workers' deaths? Is there construction in one Turkey; there are not so many workers' murders in construction, accidents don't happen? That's why there's a problem, valuable MPs. It's our responsibility to fix this problem. What I said at first -- I hope I'm wrong -- is that with the ruling vote, our motion to investigate will be rejected. I hope they mislead us, and once again we say yes to this motion for research. So, if it's said that we didn't prepare it, so we don't say yes. Let's prepare it together. Let's get four parties in, let's get together, and we'll start a very serious study from here that will prevent the deaths of workers, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit02spe0026par0385	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit03spe0026par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 9th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. People's Democratic Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Mahmoud Kozar, Şanlıurfa MP. Here you go, Mr. Runar.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit03spe0027par0005	Mr. President, I have made a promise regarding the HDP Group proposal. I hereby salute the High Council. In fact, the collapse of 18 of our workers in Karaman Ermenek district, especially in the recent months of business accidents, such as Soma, brings to light the fact that at the point of business accidents in Turkey, the process of being trapped in the mine, the review of the matter, and with a new perspective on the subject. Although Turkey has made very important legal arrangements for business health and safety in recent years, although it has compiled the relevant provisions of the ILO contracts that we have not signed or approved, unfortunately, we have been experiencing a really difficult process for the past two years, both increased number of business accidents and even at the point of fatal business accidents. In fact, Turkey carried out a very important legal arrangement in this sense, along with the Law on Business Health and Safety, which was published in the Official Gazette on 30 June 2012. One of the most important features of this new law is that it has a preventive, healing, and developmental approach rather than a strict approach. We have carried out a very important, revolutionary legal arrangement, such as the fact that work health and security services are funded by the Ministry of Labor at workplaces in one and nine dangerous and dangerous classrooms, where businesses are classified according to risk analysis, where there is a life-threatening, life-threatening, and private danger, and that all employees are divided into three groups, including business health and safety. In the latest bag of legislation, along with the Soma accident, the final bag clearly made clear the fact that the issue in Ermenek, on the eve of a very important arrangement, which reduces their working hours to six hours a day, and brings new obligations to the employer in some working conditions, cannot be resolved by legal regulations alone, in which there must be a consciousness at the point of security measure, both for employees and for society. Dear friends, the statement our Prime Minister made just after the construction accident on September 6th, when we lost 10 of our workers, is a very important and specific statement regarding the next process. In his statement, Mr. Prime Minister, there was an important explanation at the point of following this process in which any investigation will be conducted in the most detail, the way such incidents took place, if for any reason, would be investigated deeply for negligence or other reasons, and the public would be very transparently informed about these issues. Just after this statement, the most important agenda of the Council of Ministers gathered on September 8th was business accidents, legal arrangements for business accidents, and further matters to be made. It has been decided that a meeting of social parties will be held here by the Ministry of Labor. Immediately after the meeting held at the Ministry of Labor on September 12th, an action plan consisting of four topics was uncovered, and the first of these four action plans, which Mr. Prime Minister shared with the public after his visit to the Minister of Labor, was presented as the action plan as four key elements, including the process management, the human factor and education, the third as social sensitivity, awareness and business safety culture, and the fourth as legal regulations. At the point of the promotion of Turkey's Law on Business Health and Safety to the standards of ILO and the European Union, the legal arrangement package for Turkey's ratification of the ILO Convention 176 has been prepared, and as you all know, preparations for this matter have been sent to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. However, at the point where we're here, far beyond the legal regulations, we've all taken no distance from the fact that the main issue we need to focus on is education, that there's awareness in society, and that our employees' powers, responsibilities, and awareness that they need to maintain their own health and life. Finally, we were faced with a terrible accident in Yalvatch. In fact, despite the clear description of responsibilities in the legal regulations on these issues, unfortunately, we were faced with an accident that resulted in a very severe result, both in the employer's desire to gain more in the capital approach, and in the fact that our employees do not have enough awareness of work health and safety, and that they do not have a stance on their own life-threatening approaches. Imagine that there's a police checkpoint, and there are rules about how employees should be moved at this checkpoint, with three vans being delivered from the checkpoint in accordance with the legal procedure, but unfortunately, just after we're through there, the capitol employer's mentality is revealed, but in response to the fact that our employees don't have enough knowledge of business safety, many of our employees lose their lives by leaving three vans -- we all know -- by getting 40 or so of our employees into a place where 20 or so -- and I'm sure they've done some research -- and I'm sure they're not going to have enough to transport, and I'm afraid they're going to lose their lives here in a van. Here we, as all actors, need to create a serious awareness of the fact that the new road map has to be made, but on the other hand, all relevant units have to do their part. We need to review our control system. Because where we're coming from, there are significant indications that there are some serious setbacks with the control system, especially with the fact that the audit and the employer relationship invite a very serious disaster. We need to get our control system on the table. We need to re-addict the culture of occupational health and safety in our employees, employers, and bureaucracy. Our unions and unionisation need to re-open the issue in Turkey, especially at the point of trade unions' job health and safety, to take very different initiatives. We need to get back on the table again about our language of explaining business accidents, and most importantly, we need to re-advise our approaches at the point of discussing accidents and learning. The legal regulations referred to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in the coming days have been referred to parliament, the 176-point Convention of the ILO (ILO) which Turkey has referred to be ratified, and are currently referred to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 176. In that sense, I think... and with the results of the parliamentary research commission for investigating the Soma disaster, I think we should all re-establish this subject and set up a road map. I now believe that we should all be able to get this out of the way again, in a policy-free approach to this, which is the way the parties who are now in parliament have their group approach and their sincerity in this matter, I believe. With the political parties in parliament, along with the legal arrangements brought by the government, I hope that Turkey has now taken legal measures in terms of business health, safety, and in this sense I salute the High Assembly with the hope that this matter, which has now been transformed from business accidents into massacres, has become killings, has been removed from our agenda.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit03spe0028par0019	Thank you. People's Democratic Party has asked for the group's proposal to speak in favour of Sakine Öz, Manisa MP. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit03spe0029par0023	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of my group on the parliamentary research motion to investigate the reasons for the deaths given by the HDP Group. I salute you all. Members of lawmakers, in the month of war, I begin with my wishes to begin the mourning of the sufferings in Kerbala, and the fasting of those who fast in the days of our curse, and the fasting of those who fast in the presence of God, and the hope of never having such suffering again. Congressmans, take a look at the number of workers we lost in April 2012, the date of this motion, and on the agenda of the most painful and never-ending work killings in our country in months. Human life and labour health continue to be ignored among the large cost accounts of major employers, as suggested. Business killings are growing from April 2012 to today. The government calls on workers who have been published and have only been called numbers to make clear all the pressures the Republican People's Party, the International Labour Organization, the Labour Health and Business Safety Assembly and many institutions have faced in their reports. The government and parliament are calling for immediate duty. Obstructing business accidents and labor killings is clearly a call for justice. To speak clearly in Soma, Ermenek, Kozlu and Amasra, in the mines, in Istanbul, in the elevator accidents, for low wages, for unsecured and unsecured work, for those of our workers who have been pushed into inhumane conditions, for the rights provided by the social state, for 46 farm workers in a service vault in Isparta Yalvanç, for all of us, filling up women workers and not making a sound. Last year in Manisa Alaşehir, when we filled a small van with 40 workers and questioned the order that killed the farmers and warned the authorities, we had a covenant over those who were silent. Members of the law, I give this speech to you in the order that hundreds of female citizens of Soma have been responsible for the loss of 432 children from head to toe in the mine in Eynez last week, in the mine, in the mine, and in the cries of the Soma houses that I share my pain with. On this stand today, I am here to tell you the cry of my mother, Ayşe Gökçe, who said, "What did my son do in the water?" to announce his voice, saying, "There is a Galatasaray match against my father, the 5-year-old son of Mehmet Ozcan. "What did he do in the water?" From mine to construction, from field to shipyard, from factory to factory, from road construction to shipping, from hospital to factory, and from hospital to factory, we're making this call to make sure that every labor nest is abandoned to unlimited profit and production ambition, stolen from the worker, and the new tender is taken from the worker, and the exploitation of the government is kept hidden as a secret, in which the government's rulers roamed around in this faceless order, in which workers live in safer conditions, in safer conditions. I share with you the call of the workers who have been stolen from the lives of the workers, who have given their lives for a handful of coal, who have been cut off for a piece of bread, whose arm has been cut off, who have been crippled, and who have been left flattened, and most of all, the call of the Somese miners, and I call on the assembly to take a fearless stand. Honourable lawmakers issued this motion in April 2012 to issue the number of deaths in 163 after a business accident in the first three months of 2012. As we arrived today, in 2014, when we were scorched by Soma's wound, the report card of those who disregarded workers' lives is much more severe. According to the International Labour Organization, 1,414 workers were killed in the first nine months of 2014. At least 14.455 in the last 12 years, 160 of our workers have died in October alone. In October, we sacrificed people for work killings, for cheap labor, for expensive costs, and listen to some of them from me, and now you decide to take steps to prevent job killings. 35 workers were sent to die on construction and roads, 25 of us were working in mines, 10 of us were working in transports, as the Parliament and our party explained. Nine workers, offices, training, cinema, six workers in the business department, six workers in defence security, and one worker in the business of housing and entertainment -- such as this -- have lost their lives. On the upper floor of parliament, the Plan Budget Commission is talking about growing up numbers, and when they talk about unfair growth, they shut up, and when they see that we are the third most work accidents in the world, they put their head in the sand. Those determined to raise its development and justice without people, to make it workless, to raise thousands of workers' children without a father or a mother, have neglected certain mining companies, construction companies. From the helmet of the miner and the construction worker, the costs dropped from his mask returned to each of our workers as graves. In the mines, those who tried to kill workers, as if they had never seen the accepted principles, the working order, and the controls around the world, and those who ruled the state, have clearly joined forces. When the tenders were determined by the one man whose claim was given to the mines, when the lives of tens of thousands of our workers were asked for, and then what they were owed, those men escaped with false words. In January, when I looked into the eyes of the Taner Star miner, whom we knocked on the door of hundreds of miners in Soma, Warner Mines, he said, "I will cancel the owner of the mine, and his license." Then, last week, in front of the scene where we saw that he had a share of the Warning Mine, he said, "We are not satisfied with the work of ▪ Did you ever wonder which 50 people were in line in the security ministry of Minister Faruk Çelik, who just admitted to me last week that Mustafa Asal, our miner, who had lost his arm in Soma Lights, had just lost his life in November? We lost 301 miners in Soma, in the company-governmental order of a workplace, one of the most important security measures in a mine, that doesn't control the business that doesn't do the geologic study that needs to be done daily, that doesn't monitor gas measurements regularly. We have documents. The answer of Taner Yildıldı, who admits that there is no regular ground report in a mine, that faults ignore the dangers of migration and collapse, and that there is only geological study in the first establishment, is the new document of the scandal in Soma. Although each inspection report clearly stated its shortcomings in Ermenek, the company's lack of drilling was undermined by this huge cave-in. Turkey's workers, their children, their wives, and their grieving mothers deserve a sense of justice, a way of working in the state, a way of thinking, not to look at water in the cave-in in Ermenek, but to ensure what it deserves, not to look at water after it's too late. I salute all of you with the desire to see the positive votes that look at people and investments based on great profit from falling, crushing, migration, collapse, heart attack, poisoning, and burning, and the destruction of workers.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit03spe0030par0039	Thank you. People's Democratic Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit03spe0031par0043	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the advice of the HDP group. I hereby salute the General Assembly. First of all, I offer God's mercy to our brothers who died in business accidents, and my condolences to their relatives, and my condolences to our wounded brothers and sisters. As opposition and ruling, we have made many arrangements in the field of occupational safety; the Labour Health and Occupational Safety Act, some of them the Unions Act. But even though we passed all these laws, we couldn't prevent business accidents because of problems in practice. Work security and action plan must be implemented, put into place. The definition of laborer and laborer will remain respectable, professionalized. The institution of professional competence will also be established, leaving no qualified workers. As an education, the schools will be taught business safety, thus developing social sensitivity. The unions will invite the workers in the field of education to this sensitivity. We have to follow up on whatever comes down to us as opposition and power in this matter. Inspectors must complete their duties in the audits; they must report objectively, fully informedly. The cost required for the safety of the workers, especially for the safety of the workers, must be put on the condition of the tender. In terms of the purchase of services or other tender prices, this is based on the price of the tender security. In this way, the contractor or employer or government or administration should consider it, buying or service accordingly. Both the employer and the worker are in trouble at this point, since the tender requirements are not at a cost due to labour safety. If this cost in terms of job safety requires a legal arrangement, we should update this legal arrangement with his opposition in parliament as soon as possible. On the other hand, the occupational safety area should be considered, not an opposition area between the employee and the employer, but a common interest of the worker-worker, not a conflict of interest. As a result, we'll be bringing Security and Health Convention 650 at Mining Jobs with the Security and Health Convention number 649, which we'll soon bring to the front of the group, hopefully enforcing its opposition next week with its power. We think that these laws, these contracts, hopefully, would put a barrier in front of these accidents, but first, I want to make it very specific that we should do all of these applications, these theories, these nazi, these practical studies, with its opposition to the intellectual transformation of the laws that we've passed together. He thinks we should design this area as a safety, a healthcare area between workers and workers, not a conflict of interest, and after all these statements, I find the agreements that we're going to legislate. Therefore, I declare that I cannot attend the group proposal, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit03spe0032par0050	Thank you. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Congressmans, I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0032par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 9th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday/11/2014, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On October 31, 2014 and 1019, it has been suggested that a general meeting of Turkish Group Vice President and İzmir MP Oktay Vural to the presidency of the TBMM was read on Tuesday (October 29, 2014) by the Iraqi Regional Kurdish Administration of Yusuf Halaçoglu and MP Kayseri, in order to support the PYD terror organization, which was sent to Syria's Ayn Al-Arab district, on October 29, 2014 through Turkey. Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP who has asked for the group's proposal. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0033par0016	Mr. President, esteemed MPs, today we will discuss an important matter at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey, unfortunately, has witnessed another scandal by the AKP government. There has been a second Habur scandal, and beyond that, an incident where all international law has been violated. Turkey was involved in the conflict of two terrorist groups in Ayn Al-Arab (Ayn Al-Arab) in Syria, and in violation of the Constitution and international laws, the Northern Iraqi Regional Administration transferred its armed power through Turkey's territory to another country's territory. In this move, the AKP presented to the world as a legitimate force, protecting, protecting Mehmetchik's killers, giving them weapons and ammunition, allowing them to live in northern Iraq. Let's review the events: The Kurds, who took advantage of the turmoil in Syria and formed three cantons in the northern part of Syria, did not side with the Free Syrian Army against Assad. Then, Iraq and Damascus, whose short name was Islamic State, appeared and began to terrorize both Syria and Iraq, cutting off people's heads and slaughtering civilians. Many Arab regions and Turkmen have carried out these massacres. The Turkish people met ISIS, the invasion of our Musul consulate, and the capture of the Turks here. The Kerkok was invaded by the animaries, and many oil districts came into Barzani's hands without problems. Other European countries, especially the United States, remained silent when ISIS slaughtered the people of the region and the Turks. In contrast, after ISIS walked on the animaries and took over some areas, all of a sudden, everyone sat down and stood up. Likewise, those who remained silent in the occupation of many regions of Syria became lions when it came to Ayn-El Arabah, Kobani. The United States and Europe, including the press in Turkey, have declared that there is a terrorist organization that must be dealt with. US and Alliance forces have launched air operations against ISIS. Statements have been made against ISIS in Turkey as well. The political parties and extensions of the same line, particularly the baby killer, were to fall, and Turkey would also fall. They made statements, such as that. Meanwhile, many states and PKK supporters in Turkey have claimed that Turkey supports ISIS. Sadly, some of the wounded have been treated in Turkey, as there were those who joined ISIS from Turkey. Our borders have turned into a crossing inn. In the meantime, the government combined the expired Syrian and Iraqi provisions and brought them to Parliament under Article 92 of the Constitution. Nearly 1.5 million refugees from Syria to Turkey would be transferred to safety zones, power against the potential danger of ISIS. Now, after that, a series of events have arisen that confuse everyone. In response to Turkey's intervention in Ayn-El Arab (Ayn-El) and calls for the air bombing of Alliance forces and Turkey's ground operations, Turkey has also offered to establish a safe zone and to act against Assad (Assad). This offer, of course, was not accepted by the United States, whose target was different. While it was said that Turkey should not enter the Syrian swamp, the Prime Minister would not get involved in Kobani, but would not open a corridor for help there. When he said, "It is not possible to open a hallway, it is not legal, it is not political." However, it is only natural for Prime Minister Davutoglu, who does not hold one other, to be busy fishing in the murky water, to have Turkey recently provide support for the civilian population in Kobani. At the same time, on the return of Afghanistan, something began to circulate on the plane in the last few days. What is it? To give the NYD weapons support and create a front here against ISIS with the support of weapons to the PYD. Okay, well, the PYD is now a match to the PKK for us, which is also a terrorist organization. It would be very wrong for him to get up to a terrorist organization and expect such support from the United States, which we are friends with in NATO, to publicly say yes to us, to expect his approach, and not to expect such a thing from us, and we can't say yes to such a thing," he told SETimes. But two hours later, the same President suggested to Obama that he pass through Turkey. He had to say, "Obama," and a corridor opened for the pass. In other words, the support of the terrorist organisation has been given by the President himself, but help the US Secretary of State pass to Kobani on October 19th. It appears that Obama's orders to strike under the influence of Obama have been adopted by the AKP government and President Erdoğan. Clearly, what the AKP says, where it stands, what it stands for is unclear. From the president to the Prime Minister and the ministers, everyone steals separate strings. As a result, Barzani, the PKK's number-one supporter, has made its 150-man armed heist into Ayn Al-Arab via Turkey, a major historical error and disgrace. However, it turns out that some of the aphids that were raised to the heavens had fled before they had even gone to Kobani, and some had not gone to Kobani because of the disease, but had passed to Kobani. In this move, the government has extended a lifeline, supported, provided logistical opportunities for PKK-PYD terror that has conflicted with ISIS terror. Weapons are falling from the United States and Europe to the PKK-PYD. The AKP government also condones it and mediates it. As a result, it was discovered yesterday that Barzani had an agreement with Barzani to provide weapons and ammunition for the hepmer in Kobani. Let no one forget that the arming of the PKK (PKK) is a death trap set up and set up around Turkey. Turkey is the real target of weapons going to terrorist organisations and is the Turkish nation. When the risk of ISIS decreases tomorrow, no one should have any doubt that the United States and the West, which aim to establish a Kurdistan, will completely change the route of terrorist organisations to Turkey. The first signs of this took place on October 6th-10th, resulting in the slaughter of 49 of our citizens, the martyrdom of our soldiers and police, the burning of 1,113 buildings and 1,177 vehicles, including 220. In fact, it shows what the real goal is, and it shows clearly where the fact that the solution is actually finished has led Turkey to its destination. So in order not to see that Turkey is the real target after this, either you have to be a traitor or you have to be careless, but unfortunately, the President and the Prime Minister are talking differently, and they're all over the place, like chaos. If the PYD is accepted as a terrorist organization, then how will it be explained that Ayn Al-Arab would open an actual corridor, that this organization would be armed and supported? In the same way, how will it be explained that the Free Syrian Army again will be transferred to Kobani, using Turkish territory to help the PYD? When Erdogan announced his phone call to Obama, on October 19th, I asked him to transfer the Pharmaceutical to Ayn-El Arab. Isn't that what he said? Isn't it against international law that the shipment of armed angsts through Şanlıurfa to Ayn Al-Arabah is not only a constitutional crime? Turkey is not responding to the move adopted by the Grand National Assembly on October 2nd. As a matter of fact, the Constitution and its equivalent are allowed Turkish Armed Forces to be sent to foreign countries or foreign armed forces to be found in Turkey. Pesmerge was transferred to another country via Turkey as a regional armed force, not to be found in Turkey, but to be involved in the conflict between two terrorist organisations through Turkey. The president has declared that this armed force was flown in by the 90-man group themselves. In addition, it was foreseen that those who came by the highway would make their crossing at night, but the passing of their vehicles as an excuse to blow up their tires led to a second Habur scandal during the day. If the President himself has proposed the transition, he has officially submitted to the wishes of the United States (US) and has supported the completion of the United States' goal for the establishment of Kurdistan, which extends all the way to the Mediterranean. As a matter of fact, the President: Some claim that we do not support the United States, it is a lie. We gave the necessary support. He explained it, so he confessed. Obviously, the President and the Prime Minister have committed crimes, and have submitted to US blackmail. Now, I'm asking the government: what Constitutional clause, what law laws have Pesmerge been passed through Turkey to help two terrorist organizations that are fighting outside Turkey? Isn't it a crime to have an armed force transferred from another country to another country by using our land? What law and law is based on the delivery of arms and ammunition to Ayn Al-Arabgerge under the final agreement with Barzani? In the event of a possible uprising in Turkey, can it be ruled out that some countries you know can resort to the same method? We as the MHP Group are waiting for the answers to these questions. If we carry the power of democratic law state in order to investigate these and such problems and to avoid Turkey facing international charges in the future, I expect it to be accepted from the Supreme Assembly on behalf of the MHP Group. Dear MPs, the maps were already drawn in 1914. That's what you don't see or want to see today. A state is being established there today in the Middle East, but these talks, called "Arab Spring" put forward an opinion, not in the Muslim Islamic world, but in the interests of the imperialist West, and in the interests of the United States, Israel. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0034par0036	Thank you. The nationalist Movement Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0035par0039	Mr. President, members of parliament, once again, we welcome you to a motion to investigate a parliamentary investigation of foreign policy, which is Turkey's most important issue. Dear friends, we've talked about this over and over again. Turkey is having the most complicated, complicated, and difficult time in its 100 years of history -- a hundred years after the First World War. Over and over and over and over again, it's not for any of us to make a polemic about something so difficult and so relevant to a whole geography, to use this chair in simple daily political maneuvers. So, what do we do? Over and over again, we said, "Let's put aside these parliamentary research motions, and let's discuss these situations before we go to bed for three days, five days, ten days, if necessary. What's going on around us? A new Middle East is being built, he says, opening his mouth. Yes, a new Middle East is being built. 1914-2014; exactly a hundred years later, the same plays, the same scenarios are being re-created. So, what do we do? We're just doing polemics through group meetings and the council bench. Who do we call when we say come? Mr. Prime Minister, we're calling on Mr. Secretary of State, government officials, and anyone with information, documentation, to enlighten us, to contribute. Come on, let's talk about this right here, let's get it straight, let's get it straight, and then maybe find a road map that will light up the next hundred years in total. But unfortunately, for days and nights and nights, the power that occupys this House is never willing to make such a deal, such a compromise, such information. Dear friends, now, O, wrong; this is wrong; let America not come and intervene; let Turkey not use its land; neither let the Incirlik Base come into play; nor let it pass into the heparmer. What is it, then? Now, that's the question, what's it gonna be? Let nothing happen, let Turkey close its doors, windows, and sit down. Well, is that possible? 200,000 people stormed and entered Turkey's borders from Kobani. There are 1,600,000 Syrians, according to official figures provided by the government. The government doesn't know what to do, like a dumb duck. In the Middle East, oil wells change hands, refinery changes hands. Turkey has built a pipeline with Kurdistan administration, which does not work; its oil ship from Ceyhan can't find a port in the world to unload its load, and none of you can say, "I don't care, I close my door, my window, close my eyes, do my duty." The issue here is, what do you have to do? That's the question. What do you have to do? ▪ What needs to be done is proper analysis to be able to give the right answer. We need to do a project first. What is happening in this Middle East? Why are all the giants of the world, big countries fighting in this geography of ours? How can we, as Turkey, make peace among ourselves, develop a dialogue with our relatives in the Middle East, with our brothers, with our neighbors, with our neighbors? So, if there's no compromise about these things, if there's no satisfying, long-term and practical political line, believe me, we're going to criticize each other every day. Now, that's what it's all about, the last time the follow-up came. And again, without thinking too much, without pre-preparing the government... here, if ISIS has come to the front of the door, you have to stop it, you have to let NATO, the European Union, the United States forces in order to prevent it, and if it's not enough, Turkey has to intervene, and if it's not enough, then it's time for the Free Syrian Army to step in. So, what do you think you're getting at in this racket? Target unknown. Dear friends, a goal can't be a target either: So a writer once mentioned it in the corner of a newspaper, and even if a Kurdish state is formed in space, it should be opposed. So let my house be destroyed. What do you get from here? You're not getting anywhere from here either, fellas. So here I am, if you'll notice, I'm not going to go into multiple-pointed polemics like this, and I'm not going to say this, and I'm not going to say this, because the answer is not two sentences like this. We need to be able to talk about this right before we get angry, without yelling, without insulting each other, without swearing at each other, without getting angry. If we can't do that, dear friends, we'll fall into the misery and despair of the government, day-to-day politics. What happens tomorrow, what kind of Syria, what kind of Kurdish policy, what kind of Aleppo, what kind of Mosul, is there a policy, what kind of project? No. Let the State Department tell you if there is one. Now, dear friends, I'd like to make a few words of the matter of the pessimer. Dear friends, it's not just about Kobani, it's not just about the follow-up. The drama of the Ezidis in Shengal is also our drama, the misery, misery, despair of the Turkmen in Telafer, Tuzhurmatu. How do we get close to this? Now, for example, some of our friends are expressing Iraqi Turkmen every chance they get. That's right, you have to bring them, they're all brothers. What about the Turks in Iraq, who are Sunni, who are with ISIS today, who are the Shiite, who are hitting the Turkmen, how do we solve this? How do we approach it? What dialogues, what policies are we going to bring into play? So let's put out a policy that both Sunni Turkmen, Shii Turkmen, Kurd, Arab, Sunni Arab, Shi Arab, Alevi Arab, and Suryani, both have a nosebleed, a proper Middle East, and a proper Middle East. That's what I mean, master plan. If we can't build a model of democratic reconciliation, before we tell the nation about it, before we lecture Middle East, first inside Turkey, what are we going to tell people, what are we going to teach them if we can't establish a compromise, a peace, a softness, a social consensus? Then, dear friends, this angst isn't our enemy, it's our brothers. See, today the Federal Kurdistan Regional Administration in Iraq has made a decision and has declared Turkmence an official language. What we couldn't do here today, the Kurdistan administration, the Kurdistan administration there, declared Turkmence an official language along with Kurdish. From the beginning of all those schools, Turkish education is free. You can also speak Turkish in parliament, in regional parliament, and in Kurdish. Parliament Speaker Turkmence knows, he himself translates to those who don't understand, to those who don't know Turkish. For him, we who have lived together in this geography since ancient times, we all have to make a compromise, a peace with the Turkmen, with the Kurd, with the Shii, with the Alevi, with the Arab, with the Suryani, with the Assyrian. If we don't get this done, friends, believe me, by the end of the day, this feud will continue to spill blood, and as long as it's useful to someone, the hand's son will give them guns and gas. It's up to us to keep the peace. It's a priority on this roof of Congress. My respects.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0036par0053	Thank you. On behalf of the group's proposal from the National Movement Party, Osman Taney Kuruturk is an Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Kurkurk.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0037par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group in favor of the nationalist movement group's proposal. I salute you all. Guys, again, we're talking about something important, and again, we're thinking about doing a congressional investigation. Those who speak in favor of it, and those who speak against it, recommend that these issues be discussed and discussed by this Parliament, and they encourage, and they demand. We never do that. We, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as elected MPs, sit in our seats as an audience, watching what happens. Look, the government recently announced a policy from the President himself, saying in this policy that the PYD is an extension of the PKK, and is a terrorist organization. It is not for us to help the PYD. Now, that's controversial, that's right, that's wrong, I'm not going in there, but that's the Prime Minister's statement. Right after this statement, we looked at it, just as on October 29th, the Iraqi Kurdistan Regional Administration had moved from Turkey to Kobani, with a very neat transition, as if they were painting an alternate passage. Now, the Prime Minister made another statement, and he said, "I recommended this to the Americans." What kind of policy is this, my friends? Why don't we build these here? On the one hand, it's a terrorist organization, and we won't help it. It says, "On the other hand, I recommended it." The day after he said "It can't pass," the troops he called "it can't pass." Now, this is presented by Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, who says that there are those who want Turkish soldiers to go to Syria. To prevent them, we have done a cunning maneuver not to send the Turkish soldier to Syria, and we have done it. What maneuver, what cunning move? Friends, does this mean anything other than making fun of our people's intelligence, of our minds, of their memory, of their perception? I don't know anyone who wants the soldier to go to Syria, except the President and the Prime Minister. America doesn't want it, the Free Syrian Army doesn't want it, the region doesn't want it, there's no information that the Turkish Armed Forces want it, but there are statements of Deputy Chancellor Davutoglu, who also says that if there's a ground operation against Syria in the TVs and newspapers, we'll agree. There were those who wanted the soldier to go to Syria, and that was a maneuver to prevent it. We need to discuss what the work is done in this House, why the work is done in this Parliament. Now, you're looking, there's a lot of big demonstrations going on in that area, and there's screaming and screaming, "Glory to Obama!" It hurts people, us, all of us. Why, yay Obama! What do you mean, "Glory to Obama"? It hurts, but it needs a good analysis. Why are these people shouting, "Glory to Obama"? Because, not long before that, the government said, "I'm starting a process to solve the Kurdish problem." From then on, we saw that the process was empty inside. No, there's no telling what he's doing, what he wants to do, where he's going. Two forwards, one back. What he says doesn't match, what he does doesn't match, what he does doesn't match, what his policy does. When you get to a point like this, people lose hope. You're not going anywhere by tricking both the east and the west. We bring the process, we bring the solution. We say, there's no solution, there's nothing. If the people there are shouting, "Glory to Obama!," you need to look for a part of yourself. So these people are friends who have given up on you. Citizens of the Republic of Turkey have given up hope of the government of the Republic of Turkey, from other countries, from across the ocean, and from lands that will not do him any good, shouting, "Glory to Obama! How painful this is, how painful it is... and the government that causes it is still trying to avoid a lot of small talk, trying to create a government within many zigzags. Look, there are clear statements from the Home Secretary himself, and from a consultant who has just been appointed Prime Minister: a large area has been lost in the east and southeast, and the control has been lost. Can there be anything more serious than that, my friends? You can't solve the problems of your own citizen, you're not doing anything to solve one of the most important problems of the country, you're doing it, you're doing it, and you're deceiving the people you say you're going to solve, and the people in the area outside of it, and you're turning them against each other. Turkey has entered a major divide, and everyone is against each other. What kind of administration is that? After that, you look, Mr. Prime Minister comes out, makes some statements. What's he saying? He takes pieces from the resignation letter of a member of parliament who resigned from his own party, says, "I will sign under this letter of resignation." After that, you look at the state of the country, and the state of the country is not bright. The country is struggling in a disorder and incompetence. The economy is going into crisis, everyone says, and we've got a very bad day ahead of us in the economy. Unemployment increases, production decreases. People die under the ground, falling down from the heights, drowning in the sea, in groups, in masses. The president says that no one in our country. He says that while they're being broadcast on TV, the alternative gate picture is the band's harmonica and foreign troops pass through Turkey. At the beginning of all this, the prime minister, who is in charge of their administration, says: "I will sign under the letter of the opposition MP's resignation. Now, folks, the prime minister needs to know one thing: he has to sign a letter of resignation, he has to sign it, but it's not a letter of resignation, it's his own personal resignation. Maybe he'll do the only good he's ever done the country, leave a name, leave a name as a person who resigned. He is not a successful man, but because we have no period of resignation, at least he could not do it, he resigned. But, instead of giving him political bonuses from other parties, he's got to fix up this country, take a look at the state of this country. Now, as for research again, look, the failure of the government is now accepted by everyone, both in and out of the country. This failure is not only responsible for the government, my friends. Since I've been a member of the Justice and Development Party, every time I've made a speech in this House, you've noticed, I've done no disrespect, because it's a huge mass party. There are very respectable individuals in this, you, the MPs, all of us trying to contribute to this country, to help this country, but this failure, this dissolution, this lack of principle, this lack of principle, this lack of governance, it puts everyone, everyone, all of you at risk. You're under this charge because no one's billing it to the government, and it's being billed to the Justice and Development Party. The problem is, guys, I've asked you so much so far, I've always said, let's have an open meeting, let's have a closed meeting, ask all these issues, ask them yourself, and we'll ask them. We need to get the governments back on their feet. Look, while the Democratic Party government had little to do with the Democratic Party's Justice and Development Party, the Prime Minister returned at two o'clock to Menderes, referring to the President at two to Menderes. In the time of Menderes, the Democratic Party questioned its own government at the group meeting, forced the Prime Minister to resign, starting with the Foreign Minister, and forced the Prime Minister to resign. The Prime Minister later requested a vote of confidence and went on a mission from a new government. You don't get me to resign, you don't know what you're going to do, we don't get involved in anybody's internal affairs, we don't think about signing anybody's resignation letter, but I want you to ask me that, you have to ask me that. You are highly valued and qualified members of the great political formation of this country, so don't go past without asking. Why is this happening? Look, we have no sovereignty in the realm where our sovereignty is concerned, America has sovereignty; two phone calls, things are happening, things are not going to happen, things are going to happen, but no one's going to ask. With all these thoughts, I say that as the Republican People's Party Group, we will vote positively for the National Movement Party's motion to investigate, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0038par0070	Thank you. The nationalist Movement Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu, Nüğde MP. Here you go, Mr. Kavalıoğlu.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0039par0074	Mr. President, I have been sworn in by the National Movement Party Group's Kurdish Regional Government of Iraq to propose a general meeting on October 29, 2014, about the transfer of the pick-ups sent to Ayn Al-Arab district of Syria through Turkey. I salute you all. Dear friends, we are in the 4th year of the conflicting situation and human drama in Syria, where we share the 911km border. At the very beginning of my words, I would like to remind you that we, as a country, have taken responsibility for this humanitarian crisis with the painful and sad picture of the situation in Syria. More than 300,000 people have died so far in the spiral of violence in Syria. Half of them are children, 7 million people have been displaced in the country. It has been reported by the United Nations that over 2,000 people died in chemical attacks by the regime. Three million people had to take refuge in neighboring countries. The economic destruction reached 150 billion dollars. As the situation in Syria becomes the greatest human crisis of our time, we feel its influence as a country. The number of Syrians who have been housed in our country's shelters and live in cities by their own means has exceeded 1.5 million. As part of our humanitarian and neighborly duties, we are doing everything we can for the people of the region who are in a position to take refuge in our country. In 2013, Turkey became the third and third in the world, compared to national income among all countries in emergency and humanitarian aid, after the United States and Britain. Turkey alone struggles with this refugee pressure and does not see the international community's support enough. Dear lawmakers, recent developments in Syria have given the country's human tragedy a new and terrifying dimension. The scope of threats stemming from the Syrian regime has expanded with the threat of terrorism, making regional and international peace a serious threat to security and stability. We're talking about an ISIS threat in our region today, which has a great role in the Syrian regime. We can safely say that the regime's policies based on sectarianism and ethnic discrimination have triggered regional instability, causing threats to take on a new level. Syria has become unmanageable. Today, extremist terrorist organisations are constantly expanding their activities by feeding on the chaos and the policies of the regime, and so are the risks and threats that it has caused in terms of regional security and stability. As Turkey, we have always said that we are for the independence and territorial integrity of Iraq and Syria and that we are against terrorism wherever it comes from. All policies applied are based on that expression. While the United Nations Security Council confirmed the independence and territorial integrity of Iraq and Syria, it condemned the activities of terrorist organisations such as ISIS in Iraq and Syria. Against the terrorist activities of ISIS, the United Nations has urged all member states to take all measures necessary to combat terrorism and extremism under Security Council Resolution 1373 and to adhere to international law. The process, which began at the September 5th NATO Wales Summit, began with multilateral meetings where the threat of Iraq and ISIS was dealt with in detail, continued with meetings held in Paris (September 15th) on 9/11. The meetings, which our country is participating in, are stated to be carried out with the international community. It has been agreed that the fight against ISIS and that international efforts in this direction will be carried out on the axis of political, security and human dimensions. As a country, we strive to act with the international community on this regional issue. As a matter of fact, the name of the Turkish Armed Forces, which was adopted by our Grand Assembly last month, was specifically highlighted in the thesis authorising that foreign troops should be deployed to foreign countries for cross-border intervention if necessary and for the same purposes to be kept in Turkey. Dear friends, as Turkey, the political solution to the Syrian conflict remains our top priority. The immediate establishment of a government that protects Syria's territorial integrity and embraces everyone with the constitutional and parliamentary system will still be our priority. As one brother looks at another brother's tragedy, our government has been looking at what happened in Syria from the beginning. We, Turkey, display a country with a conscience for the immediate peace and quiet of our persecuted brothers and sisters who are near us. With new and major crises in our area, these crises can't be considered to be inconsistencies when it concerns our Arab, Kurdish, Turkmen brothers, within our borders, and on the other side of our relatives. No one can expect us to run a policy waiting for others to decide the problems we face next door. We can't let the events that took place right under our noses affect our country's interests. Dear lawmakers, as Turkey, our focus in this war is to relieve human suffering, and we continue to do everything we can. 200,000 people from Kobani are welcome in our country, fleeing ISIS persecution. In this framework is the transition of some elements to Kobani, for human and logistical purposes. It's important to stress that the animaries are a constitutionally official part of the Iraqi army. According to the Iraqi Constitution, the regional government is responsible for all administrative requirements of the region, especially the establishment and configuration of security forces such as police security forces and regional guards. According to this constitution, the country's federal unit, the Iraqi Kurdish Regional Government, has the authority to establish and manage its own security forces. In this framework, Pesmerge is a security structure in accordance with the authority given by the Iraqi Constitution to Kurdish Regional Management. In short, the transition of the angst should be assessed in a situation that has arisen within the framework of the international coalition and the United Nations decisions, which were adopted by our Grand Assembly in the past month. The most important issue here is the international coalition, which is also a member of Turkey, fighting against ISIS, and our country is conscious of its responsibility in this struggle. It is also necessary for the international community to increase and strengthen its support for the Syrian opposition in order to wipe out the extremist elements in Syria. Supporting the Syrian opposition supported by the Syrian people will also prevent and prevent the attraction of extremist groups. Turkey is the country that best understands the solutions, which can analyze the ongoing crises in Syria and Iraq. Turkey is acting on the basis of its national interests, regional vision and universal values, not under the direction of third parties, as it shapes Syrian policy. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to point out that we are grateful to our great nation who have always trusted us as we continue to strengthen Turkey safely, steady and peacefully in the face of events that have taken place in our neighbors and have seriously affected us. Despite dozens of provocations and provocations, our nation has not paid a premium for actions that would undermine our unity and integrity with common sense, fear, and unity. This attitude led to the failure of the games that were played on our country. With this support from our nation, without allowing the attacks on its sovereignty, our government will continue to tread on any injustice without compromising the rule of democracy and law. I'm saying I don't approve of the general request from the MHP Group, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0040par0088	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0041par0089	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0040par0090	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0041par0091	Mr. President, the speaker mispronounced statements in both the Constitution of Iraq and gave us the fundamental point of our motion, without taunting...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0040par0092	What did he say and twist, Mr. Halaçoglu?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0041par0093	He stated that the Pesmerges were part of the Iraqi army; they had nothing to do with the Iraqi army, and I want to explain that.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0040par0094	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0041par0098	Dear President, lawmakers, for once, the 9th Article of the Constitution of Iraq, first of all, shows the angulars as an internal security force, not as part of the Iraqi army. So it's impossible to base that on the thesis, so let's put that first. So the helmerge is the internal security force of a regional administration in Iraq, not an army associated with the Iraqi army, the central administration. Thus, the possession of foreign armed forces in Turkey has passed the same way as Article 92 of the Constitution. Thus, the angismer did not come for possession in Turkey, but was sent to another country via the aftermergence of Turkey. Therefore, there has been a violation of international law, and a constitutional crime has been committed. We're not saying we shouldn't be with the people there or the people in Syria or the people in Ayn Al-Arab. We're not talking about a human issue, we're talking about a mistake, we've brought this motion, we've asked for a general discussion. So you're taking things in different directions here. Even if we think about it, how many Muslims died under the pressure of America... the massacres in Iraq? One million. Well, then Libya... well, Egypt, then Syria... How many people died, cut each other off? No matter what happens, thousands of people, millions of people have been slaughtered. Now, while you're trying to find a way to get between them, you're trying to put a fit in the conflict. Don't! On the other hand, who won? The Muslims lost, the Islamic world lost. Who won? Western imperialism, America, Israel, won. Was it for nothing that Gaza was bombed by Israel? You don't say anything about that. On the other hand, a total constitutional crime has been committed, international law has been violated, and you can't account for that when they go to The Hague tomorrow as the Republic of Turkey. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0042par0104	Thank you. I submit to your votes the nationalist movement group proposal...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0041par0109	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit04spe0042par0110	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit05spe0042par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 9th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The resolution of the National Party for Action Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Tuesday/11/2014 (now), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. The parliamentary inquiry motion, which has been submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 4/11/2014, is now under way to investigate the causes, responsible and necessary measures of these and similar events, based on the coal mine disaster in Ermenek. lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions pending to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations and held in the same dated combination of its talks on Tuesday 4/11/2014. On behalf of the Republican People's Party group's proposal, Attila Kart is a member of the Alliance. Here you go, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit05spe0043par0018	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the group proposal given by the Republican People's Party Group. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we lost 1,600 people in our country in 2014, in the first ten months, in business killings. From the top of Europe to the top of the world, we're moving fast and fast. On behalf of our country, we're looking at a painting that's tragic, dramatic, worrying, and as embarrassing as it is. We need to see this non-human and dramatic painting now, and we need to face this painting. When we do this confrontation, we have to discuss the cause of death, or rather the system. Soma, what happened before the Ermeneks happened, who stood where, what the state's organs had done, what they had done, what they had done, we need to explain this process in a chronic way, refresh our memory. In the 24th term, opposition groups, especially our Manisa MPs, insisted on bringing this issue to the Parliament's agenda. Despite this constructive and responsible approach to the opposition, why can't work killings be prevented? Why can't the class conflict be resolved? Why are the existing contradictions getting deeper and deeper, and why are they reaching a cliff size? As we examine the incident at Ermenek, the following findings and findings arise, my dear friends, that there is an abandoned minefield east of the furnace, where the disaster took place. According to current findings, disaster occurs as water raids from this region merge with other factors. Some of the workers are being driven by the pressure of the water, and this swing is their salvation. 18 workers remain in the mine and disaster occurs. The important question is, why do these abandoned areas not appear in the energy ministry's operating records, on their maps? Is the business manager operating in this area outside the license area? Isn't the Department of Energy processing the area when they give you a license? Why don't the Departments of Labour and Energy intervene in this grim picture, and why do they overlook it, and why do they ignore it? Can't these ministries get past the 2012/15 General Assembly, which has the license and powers for the mines in the prime minister's contract, and can't they do the job despite the Prime Minister's office? The reality of Turkey is that valuable lawmakers, we need to see this: the entire administrative and judicial system in Turkey is locked up through the Prime Minister's office. Turkey must first overcome this fundamental problem. Our second basic determination, my dear friends, is that this sector is a very troubled sector. We're looking at a business like this where there's no technological investment, no infrastructure investment, there's no understanding that forces it, and there's no sanction. In this sense, the development of business safety culture needs to be institutionalized. At this point, we see that no serious work has been done. We're looking at the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, which should be doing this work, which should be building the institutional structure on this subject, and we're looking at it, seven or eight years later, in 2010, after another disaster in Zonguldak, in 2011, we need to improve business security culture. We see such cheap politics being done. Even though he is in power, we are faced with a ruling identity that has been running Turkey for twelve years, and continues to complain, complain, advise. A moment ago, the power spokesman was speaking, and he still said that it should be, it should be. You've been running Turkey for twelve years. You do it, you don't give advice, you don't give advice. So, in such an unsecured environment, we look at the other dangers of the abnormal production force, we see other problems. Soma's manager confessed, what did he say? He said: Isn't this a painting of violent capitalism in itself, valued MPs? We're looking at, in addition to all of this, 240 inspectors are supposedly overseeing the 14,000 Januarys. Well, how does he handle it? Before we go down to the mine, we're talking about a state-of-the-art audit case that's been conducted in a completely formal way by ignoring the fact that the mine knows the facts, and it's a cover check. We're dropping the rest of the findings. Look, according to media reports that have appeared in the past three days, official reports say that the owners of the stove host the auditors in luxury hotels and bring them to the stove for display, sending their gifts to their feet. The employers have news before the inspectors arrive. The drinking tables are being set up tonight. Even though workers say this pressure can happen, there are no measures taken. You see, the firms who are smuggling goods so as not to pay the disability compensation of their employees, the companies that cause various accidents and events in Soma, and are always protected. It's the same firm that doesn't pay taxes, S.S.K. and electricity. However, these coincidences somehow engage in special relations with political staffs, with the staff of political power, and are granted protection. In fact, that's where you see those actors, the picture that created December 17th. That's where the real problem lies, my dear friends. Look, the Minister of Labor is talking to the heat of this, what does he say? He says: "Sir, you shouldn't be licensed." 50 people are in the way. There's pressure to produce, there's too much profit. What beautiful insights, the Minister of Labor, tells the truth. So, what do you expect after these confessions? Isn't there something a minister should do in the interest of a government's solution? What's he doing, Minister? We're looking at the fact that the D.A.'s office isn't authorizing an investigation warrant for investigators who are not being audited, who are being neglected and abused during this process. Is that acceptable? Now, isn't that where the salt smells? Isn't that a disgrace, dear lawmakers? Isn't this a photo? Isn't that a sense of governance? Well, we're looking at it, of course, and in the meantime, despite reports from the Chamber of Mining Engineers, the Presidential State Control Board, the Republican People's Party, the opposition's motions to investigate, the government is not doing its part of its job, not doing it in the context we're talking about. The actual situation is that businesses rely on their local and central relations with power, and they say Ankara won't sanction me anyway. The relationship of interest and abuses of influence bring with it the culture of punishment, and this culture of incarceration creates the worst consequences in the mining industry, my dear friends. So, at the end of a painting like this, who actually reveals the essence, the essence of the picture? Our woman from Ermenek, Southerner, is known as Emish Baha. It says that Emish Baha: "First they steal our bread, steal our labor, and then they take our lives. " The Emish Baha sums up the reality of Turkey, sums up the fact of Asia Minor. The cry of the Emish Bahas and the son couldn't swim. "The innocence and human values expressed by your mother should be a lesson to this community, my dear friends. Come, let's hear these voices. Let's end this classical contradiction, this exploitation and robbery of violent capitalism, my dear friends. Let's not go around, get to the bottom of it, get to the bottom of it, face the problem. Let's show this courage, show this responsibility. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear friends, with these thoughts, I invite you once again to be responsible and reasonable. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit05spe0044par0037	Thank you. Ali Riza Alaboyun, Aksaray MP who has asked against the Republican People's Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Alaboyun.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit05spe0045par0041	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party group proposal. I salute you all. First of all, I wish God's mercy to the 301 martyrs who died on May 13, 2014, and to the wounded and their families who suffered severe trauma. In the accident we had last week in Ermenek, we pray that our workers, who were under the collapse, will return home safely, be removed, and give our support as much as we can. Dear friends, after the accident in Soma (Soma), a commission was established in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with the hand of all parties; the Commission for Research on Soma's Accident; and with it, what must be done so that there will be no more similar accidents. I thank everyone, every party. In particular, all of our fellow commissioners are in great harmony. I'm the President of the Commission, and since my profession is mining engineering, I've been recruited by my group, and we're really trying to figure out how it happened by basing our work on both scientific and labor testimony in this harmony. The point is, if we figure out how it happened, we can offer good suggestions, or we can't go beyond the usual suggestions. After all, at the end of this month, at the end of the month, our Commission completes its work, we've reached a certain point. Hopefully, by the end of the month, our Commission will discuss its report and settle a decision. The fundamental challenge here, unfortunately, and unfortunately, has been due to our lack of unresolved legislation in mining for a very long time. I'd like to give you a few examples. This is our Mining Law, and this is only 20 pages of the regulation that was issued last year concerning underground mines, in accordance with the Law on Health and Safety 6331. Similarly, Australia has a law of occupational health and safety, not mining law, but coal alone, and the law of occupational health and safety includes 350 pages, 650 pages. The main problem with us is, unfortunately, we didn't include coal within the normal Health and Safety Act. In this context, I think 301 people should die and the Ermenek accident should be a turning point for us now. In this context, we prepare our reports in this frame. For example, why does coal require the Law on Health and Safety? Because coal mines are very different from other mines. Today, 95 percent of the accidents in the mines occur in coal mines. Until the Soma accident, 98 percent of the deaths came from the flu, with Soma, we faced gas poisoning and eventually floods. I mean, coal mines usually risk four basic accidents. The first is the gray; the second is the burning, the heating, the gas; the third is the dent; and the fourth is the flood. So, if we sit on the basis of the coal health, the safety of the coal, all sorts of things from the gallery to the air-conditioning system, we need to systematically define everything the employer needs to do, and we lack that. The Mining Law that we have, unfortunately, does not include occupational health and safety in coal, occupational health and safety in coal; the Mining Law is a law that is usually written to resolve legal affairs or legal disputes between the employer and the license holders. In this context, we need a new institutional structure, a radical amendment in the mine. Mining is very different from any other business, so it has to be handled outside the Law on Health and Safety 6331, and it has to be inspected by a different institution. As mentioned earlier, there really are some gaps in the inspection. Our Ministry of Labor has its own interests, our energy ministry has its own interests. That's because he's being audited by two different institutions. One day, business inspectors of the Ministry of Labor are going to the same institution, and 15 days later, without him knowing it, the MEGAM authorities are leaving. There's no infrastructure for inspection at MiGEM. As I just said, the MiGEM is overseeing everything under this law, according to this law, in the context of licenses. Thus, the MEMOM took charge of the situation and took the task of controlling it. MlGEM is just looking at projects as long feet, room-to-ball; they're just looking at open enterprises or closed enterprises. Therefore, in order to strengthen the hand of the MiGEM, we need to establish a fundamental law. We've lost 301 people, and 18 of our people are in a cave-in, and now we need to create a change and transformation, even a mental transformation. Even if we break all these laws today, it's a matter of culture. Unfortunately, none of our workers have a mining certificate. These things need to be handled and studied very well. There is a common opinion among the workers that the soma family system was used ten years ago. If there's a certified training, the uncle system will collapse on its own. For him, mining training for three days or five days is not enough, it is useful to improve, and we need to do our best to do so. In accidents, we have not only handled the accident in Soma, but also the accident in the context of Ermenek. Because in Soma, we have seen that the accident in Soma is the dent of an old production. As the gas piles up in an old production, the gas enters the gallery, while the water enters a newly opened gallery in Ermenek. So old manufacturing always poses a huge risk in our mining industry. Maybe there's a clause here that we'll recommend in our Commission, in this framework we might be able to make a special law, in the context of Soma and in the risk analysis of the old productions of coals. Other than that, we have a lot of suggestions, and I don't want to be here because we don't have time. For example, the Soma crash that killed 301 of our people had to be done and made into a movie and kept this consciousness alive on May 13th. Here, indeed, you see what happens when you read the workman's statements, you live, you lose sleep that day. So, Soma is an example to us, and Ermenek is an example to us, but it's an example that we pay dearly for. Let's hope we make some radical changes to our mining by getting out of here. That's not the problem with a party. I mean, it's so rotten that no matter how solid concrete buildings we build on it, the foundation collapses. The basis for this is to change these regulations. And for that to happen, it's going to have to spread to the miners, the workers, and the whole industry, as long as we have a change of mind. In this frame, I salute the entire House, and wish you a good evening.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit05spe0046par0055	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal. Mustafa Kalaycı is a member of the Union. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit05spe0047par0059	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the People's Movement Group in favour of the CHP's proposal for the coal mine disaster in Ermenek. I salute you all. Mr. President, part of the speech I made off the agenda of the coal mine disaster in Ermenek, according to my information, was not given from the TBMM TV. Mr. President, are you censoring me? I'd appreciate it if I could get a reason why it wasn't given. As I said in my non-responsive speech, we immediately arrived at the site as a party of the National Party for Action to study, research, support, and assistance as a result of the painful news from Ermenek. According to information from workers who survived the disaster, the food containers were blown out during a meal break, with the sound of an explosion, and the cars started to fall off the tracks, and the workers who were close to the coal extraction site, called "Run away!" were able to run out of the workers who were near the water that followed them. One of our workers, who said he had 20 years of experience, stated that the smell that came with the raid was the smell of a broken furnace, and that the water that came from the stove next door was the water that was accumulated. As a matter of fact, Ermenek Public Prosecutor's Office, who launched a criminal investigation into the disaster, said yesterday that the prerequisite report issued by the coroner's committee indicated that the water that had accumulated in the old manufacturing area over the years caused a sudden flood in the areas of the heel that had weakened the pressure threshold, causing the flood. The coal mine that was flooded is run by the Limited Company of the Has Sugars. Saffet Haber, the owner of the company, was elected mayor of the ANAPP, then transferred to the AKP, and was not elected mayor of the AKP in 2009. The owner of the permit is Ermenek Genne Liniyet Coal Company, which operates within the Uzbey Group. This company, which has not been brought up by the ministers and officials knowingly or unknowingly, has been licensed according to our mining legislation and is actually responsible for the work in the field in the first place. It's a form of subcontractorism, which is a form of redevans-style operating, and for profit, human life is a disgrace. This system invites business accidents. There's money and rant in this system, but there's no room in it for people, everything's for money, and it's worth the amount of property that man produces. Dear lawmakers, it is inevitable that catastrophes occur in a working environment where the health and safety measures are not taken, whether these measures are taken, whether they are monitored or not, are not controlled as required. Ermenek's tragedy must be examined and investigated in every detail. In the irresponsibility of this tragedy, in the neglect, in the inconsistencies of those who are involved, the legal action must be taken against them, the account must be asked. No negligence must be ignored. In Ermenek, the area where the disaster occurred many years ago, and many of them are generally known by the people of the area where the coal mines were removed by the licensed company and were left with water, even though they had to be closed. Those in charge and those in charge must be questioned why they haven't seen or taken precautions in years. It has been stated that years of production for the mines, which are required to be given every year by mining legislation, and for the use of these maps and plans to extract coals, such as the production of the previous year, and the production of the following year's productions, the coordinates and codes, the manufacturing maps and plans that show digital data, are not monitored in a healthy manner. What has been done over the years in terms of the design map and plans should be investigated and investigated with all its dimensions of how to make production and approval in addition to water-filled abandoned furnaces. The 25-metre control drill used to determine whether there was possible underground water, abandoned or active furnaces in the area during the extraction of coal was said not to be done, and the device to do so was not in operation. Therefore, the reason why the control drilling is not being performed is because if the audits are not being considered, why they are not being followed, why they should be investigated and investigated. Business companies in the region stopped working for 45 days on the basis of the financial burden of the bag of legislation, and then after talks between firms and workers agreed to pay for food and services and eight hours of underground work, including a half-hour break, the post-vice businesses were reinstated. Thus, workers who have been going out and eating the food the company has provided have started eating their own food underground in the furnace. There's no elevator system in January, so walking in and out takes about an hour. If the water raid had eaten out like it used to, the workers wouldn't be underwater, but the fact that workers are at risk of such a disaster at any moment. There is no doubt that it should be investigated who pressured workers to take over food and services provided by the firm and to eat their meals on the stove, as well as who brought the workers to AKP rallies, and whether the owners of the business were threatened by the inspector to lead their workers to AKP. The legal regulations made by the AKP's government are more about saving the day than ensuring business health and security and ending the exploitation order. In addition, discrimination, equality, and justice are being made incompatible. As a matter of fact, in the last bag of legal rights, past services have been ignored and no improvement has been made in pensions for retired people working underground. Again, those who lost their lives in the disaster in Soma have been given a one-man employment right to their relatives, their bonus debts have been wiped out, the requirement for their parents' monthly commitment has been lifted, but those who lost their lives in the mining accidents that occurred before and after. There must be an arrangement that can benefit anyone who is in the same situation as those given the rights given by the law. Retirers who do the same job should not be ignored. Dear MPs, when the Prime Minister heard that food was not allowed to be eaten outside on a January, he instructed them to turn off the stove. What about the employees? Of course you don't care. What needs to be done here is to remove the employer's pressure on the workers to eat outside. In Ermenek, there are 1,500 workers working at 11 coal companies in the area where the disaster occurred. The locals are taking their bread out of the coal. There is no other job for a man to work to support his family, to pay their debts. Therefore, the area must be given special attention, support, and measures for a healthy working environment. One of the sad news that breaks all of our hearts these days is also from Jalvach. 17 people were killed and 29 were injured in the accident of the fall of the midibus, where our workers went from Akşehir to collect apples for 35 lira. This accident revealed in all its nakedness, the desperation of our people, the poverty, the debt, and the burden of living. Don't those of you who sell affra, who build a palace for about 1.5 quadrillion liras, who buy new planes, luxury cars, who rule in vain and show off, who don't feel ashamed or ashamed or remorseful about the poverty of our citizens? The AKP government, which has spent millions of dollars on Syrian refugees who have also paid for food and fuel money, has not seen our own people's poverty, unemployment, despair. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit05spe0048par0075	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Yilmaz Tunç, Bartın MP. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit05spe0049par0079	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. First, I wish our 18 miners, trapped in the mining accident at Ermenek, would be removed from the ground as soon as possible. Once again, I welcome our 301 miners who died in Soma, and then in Zonguldak, before and after the Soma accident, and in my constituency district, the miners who died in the accidents that took place in Bartin, and in different parts of our country. I sincerely hope that the common will will be achieved in order to ensure that such sufferings never occur again, and that our nation will not face such accidents or new sufferings. The mining industry, especially underground mining, is a very risky area for business health and safety. On the other hand, many countries, especially those with rich underground resources, have a separate importance, while many measures are being taken to boost business security in the country's economy. In addition to improvements in mining legislation in developed countries, we have also seen that security is guaranteed with internal and external controls, and that there is a stronger and more professional work in the basin than in small businesses. In our country, mining accidents statistics are clearly needed to develop in the field of mine safety compared to developed countries. The problems of the mining sector have been mentioned periodically in various studies and studies, and the Commission for Assembly Research on the Problems of Mining in the Turkish Grand National Assembly in 2010 has made significant assessments. The Commission, which has been established to investigate the causes of the Soma accident and the security measures needed to be taken, has continued its work in detail, listened to all its concerns, and from time to time, members have studied their own security at both the scene of the accident and other furnaces, and have entered the process of writing reports. When we look at the findings of the Parliamentary Research Commission established in 2010 and the reports of the Soma Commission, which has not yet filed its report, it is the first thing that comes to mind that the mining sector should be re-examined and a system change based on the example of the developed country in our country. Our miners seem to be having serious infrastructure problems, and our country has not developed in parallel with economic development and development in recent years. The problem of occupational health and safety that has been repeated in Ermenek's accident is that there is a lack of security culture in this area, along with the mine disaster in Soma district of Manisa. We have seen the dangers of the underground production of abandoned billboards and feet, galleries, in Soma Gosh, and in Ermenek. One came out as a gas explosion and a fire, and the other came out as a flood. Thus, the measures necessary for such accidents to no longer occur in our country are no longer debated as to the need for a broad planning until the production project of the minefields is completed and the production is complete and then reformed in that region. Instead of remote, piece by piece, small mines, the basin is fully planned and should be moved to a high production quality, business accident rate, run by mining companies. I don't think politics through mining accidents will help the industry or our country. Instead of political debate over deaths, we all need to think about how we can eliminate this important problem in our country. Mining accidents have not yet been introduced to our country. The statistics of mining accidents do not change according to the ruling party. When we looked at the last 30 years of our country: in 1983, in Zonguldak Kozlu, in 1983, in Zonguldak Kozlu, again in Zonguldak Kozlu, in 1987, in 1990, in Bartın Amasra, in 1990, in Amasian Yeniçeltek, in 1990, in 1990 -- this was a major disaster -- we lost 263 miners -- in Zonguldak Kozlu, in 1995, in Yozgat Coron. Meanwhile, we've encountered small-scale mining accidents in different parts of our country, especially Zonguldak and Bart, and finally 18 miners in Karaman Ermenek are still underground. When we look at the dates of the accidents, the number of accidents or the casualties of accidents do not change according to the ruling party. It's the system problem, precious MPs. Our experience now requires that this area be placed on the table in every dimension, restructured, and created a very powerful control mechanism. The implementation of the Law on Occupational Health and Safety, which took effect in 2013, and the lack of legislation that we have detected in the application must be resolved as soon as possible. Although the Soma Commission has been established for the Soma accident, and since we've studied our country's mining in all its dimensions, I believe the proposals that will be included in this Commission's report should be carried out under the supervision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. At this stage, the criminal and administrative investigations continue, and after the completion of search and rescue efforts on the accident in Ermenek, which we have yet to reach our miners, I salute the General Assembly, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit05spe0050par0091	Thank you. I will submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit05spe0051par0095	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit05spe0050par0096	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Ayyadım, Mr. Kart, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Özkotutan, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Ekcin, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Serter, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Değirindereli, Mr. Gök and Mr. Çetin. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0050par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 9th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the Republican People's Party Group voted on the proposal, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at a meeting Tuesday (June 4/11/2014), I would like to ask that the following proposal be submitted to the General Assembly's approval under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The adoption of law proposals number 651, 613, 640, 616, 565, 387, 617, 649, 650, 73, 455 and 646 in the section of the agenda's "Objections of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions and Proposals and Proposals" and the adoption of the General Assembly in accordance with this order of other tasks, On Tuesday (November 4th and 11th 2014) the unspoken questions were not discussed; Until Tuesday, November 4, 2014 (today) the meeting of the talks on the work of the Law Bill, number 640, was completed; Until Wednesday, November 5, 2014, when the talks were finalized until the 565th Bill of Law were completed; Until Thursday, November 6, 2014, when the talks were completed until the Legislature Charter Number 649; On Tuesday (November 11th 2014), until the meeting of the talks of the duties of the Number 73th Bill of Laws was completed; Until the meeting of Wednesday (November 12th, 2014), until the meeting of the Legislature, number 646, was completed; Until Thursday, November 13, 2014, when the talks were completed until Bill 641; It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. In the event that daily programs cannot be completed at 00 a.m., they will continue to work until the day-to-day programs are completed; The Law Bill 616 was proposed to be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, and to have its sections in the accompanying form. Mehmet Doğan Kubat, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal for Justice and Development Party. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0052par0035	Mr. President, I have made a promise to express my views in favor of our party's group proposal. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, our group proposal suggests a change in the agenda this week and next week's working hours of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In this framework, some legislation and proposals are suggested to be placed on the front page of the agenda. In this framework, it is recommended that the Constitution of Higher Education Staff Law, which is closely monitored by the public today, and that the legislation that concerns 120,000 of our academics, be held today, hopefully, by law. This law aims to increase academic studies as both quality and quantity by bringing in higher education compensation and academic incentive grants. This law, which concerns 120.999 personnel and includes professors, professors, assistant professors, professors, research assistants, professors, professors, professors, translator, specialists, and education planners, will be legalized today, hopefully giving good news to this community. Again, today, we plan to discuss an international contract between us and Hungary. Tomorrow, we had the Istanbul Research Centre Law bill on the agenda -- but it didn't happen last week -- and it will be discussed as a basic law on penal and execution institutions -- 42 articles -- and on Thursday, we aim to implement a bill that envisions our two international contracts concerning Sweden and the integration of the pharmaceutical profession -- and again -- which our political parties have reached a consensus. I look forward to your support for our proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0053par0040	Thank you. The Justice and Development Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0054par0044	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, yes, today, I asked for a group proposal from the Justice and Development Party. What did I want to say? As you all know, the Justice and Development Party comes up with a group of proposals that make that kind of change almost every day of the week. Because, as in any business, the House has no plans to work. We don't know what their plan is. We've entered the fourth year, at every Assembly meeting, I've never seen the Justice and Development Party come up with a group proposal for Turkey's problems as a group proposal. What did I witness? They're going to make a quick time change about just the times, about the laws they'll bring first, or about passing some of the laws they've been instructed to pass from the House. Now, the second one -- they're doing something weird -- for example, tomorrow they're bringing in the draft law on the amendment to the Higher Education Law. Yes, we support it, a bill that regulates the personnel law of 120,000 of our friends from a professor of higher education institutions to an expert, which leads to certain wage increases in them. Yeah, well, that's true, but there's something else: this bill was discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission, which will be discussed here tonight, but our friends from the Plan Budget Commission are working upstairs. You're bringing in the Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act bill again tomorrow. He needs to come, too, but the Justice Commission works upstairs...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0055par0046	There's no Justice Commission tomorrow!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0054par0047	Yeah, you made a last-minute change, but it was theoretically working, the Justice Commission. We're up against a lack of plan here again. Now you have to plan these things properly, which you can't do, and you can't plan the country. First, this place has to run smoothly, and then I want the laws that the country needs to get out of the way. Dear friends, I'd like to talk about coal. In recent days, really, there's been a problem with coal on Turkey. Our friends who work in coal mines lose their lives, they're trapped, trapped -- we say hope, hope, hope from God -- we pray for them to survive, but I don't think they have much time left. I hope they get their parents, their kids, their tearful mothers, their tearful children. We're saying this, and I've just listened carefully to the friends who spoke in the parliamentary research motion given by CHP. Look, you guys have been in power for 12 years, you've been in power for 12 years, and we've been talking about mining accidents for 12 years. In particular, over the last four years, during the legislature we've been in, we've often talked about mining accidents, and we've all started to become miners. When I first arrived, they handed me over to the CIT Commission. Actually, I didn't really know what the CIT Commission was doing because I came from the private sector. When I came to the CIT Commission, I began to learn about the state, I began to learn about TTK, I began to learn about TKI. So we learned about Turkey's Tashkomu Foundation, we learned about Turkey's Coal Company, we saw firsthand how badly these institutions were managed, and we didn't sign up for TTK, with you AKP MPs abstaining from it last week. You know why we didn't? There was everything in TTK; corruption, bribery, labor health, job safety, and inefficientness, the institution was being deliberately damaged. We've faced situations like this. The mining companies or mines that have been removed in your day, which have been run by the state before, began quickly to be transferred to the private sector, in a number of forms such as services from your time, ▪redevans, -- in a number of ways that you took advantage of the legal gaps -- in fact -- in a number of ways that you took out. As a result, you thought coal production would increase. Look, my fellow bartinians know very well, my Amasran MP friends, my Zonguldýlı MP friends, know very well that in nine years the Turkish Taşkomuru Foundation has not produced a kilogram of coal. Although he pledged 500,000 tonnes of coal production, in the contract, in thirty-six months, as preparation period, 500,000 tonnes of coal should be produced, and in later years he could not produce any of them. Just as no sanction has been imposed on this company in nine years, this company has also taken TTK prisoner. Now, this company didn't just capture TTK. A day or two ago, you remember, there was another business accident in that area, two Chinese miners lost their lives. After that company took over, 12 workers died, 42 workers were injured, and since 2005, they have not produced a gram of coal. The coal mines were closed by the Department of Labor and Social Security. Due to lack of job security, the same company -- the company that has been holding TTK hostage for nine years -- is causing a business accident in a coal mine that has been shut down because the stoves haven't been aired enough and the fire-sensitive plumbing hasn't been used. These are facts. In 2010, we lost 30 of our miners in Karadon. When you looked at it, it was the flu, and we lost 11 workers in Afghanistan right away in 2011, and nine of them were still in the ground, and they couldn't be removed. In 2013 we lost eight workers in Kozlu, and in 2014 we lost 301 miners in Soma. And 2014, this week Ermenek. Now, when you look here, when you look at the Court reports, there were accidents in Kozlu, in Karadon, because there was a murder in Karadon, and it was said that the accident had come, that there had to be a measure, that subcontractor work in the mines had to be done, and it was self-explained by Labour and Social Security Minister Faruk Çelik, a construction company, a construction company with no experience, was running a gallery. It's a landslide in Afghanistan; look, we're talking about an accident on the ground. There was dehydration, dehydration of the field, and coal production, which was mined by a landslide, due to the total 50 percent of the vegetation that needed to be removed. There was a landslide, and 11 of our workers were killed, and Soma died for the same reasons, gas poisoning and flooding. Now, they call it a flood, as if it were a natural disaster. If you don't do the dehydration process in the mines, if you don't do the drilling process, if you don't do the drilling process, which is what we're witnessing in the last Ermenek case -- if you don't do this dehydration process, we're going to run into these job murders, these job accidents very often. Now, after every business accident, we come to this stand, and we ask God never to show such business accidents again, and especially the ruling party MPs come to this stand and describe things that need to be done as if they had not been in power in this country for twelve years, as if they had not been from another country. Who's holding your hand, fellas? Who's holding your hand? This is how we will allow the new coal mines by reinventing the other mechanism by including the employer in the labour health and occupational safety laws. Is anyone holding your hand? You don't, do you? Let me give you an example, and the material side of it is very comfortable. See, the former prime minister spent $706m on a covered grant in 2010, $951 million in 2011, $1 billion in 2012, $1 billion in 2013, and $1 billion in 2013, some in Libya, some in Egypt, some in the Muslim Brotherhood. If he'd spent $5 billion on miner brothers, we'd have a chance to pay 48,000 miners for about five years without working. And again, you're building a runaway palace -- you're saying that the money you spent on the illegal palace -- is $1 billion, 370 million in old money, $1 billion, $1 billion,370 million in new money. You could have paid 48,000 miners for a year and a half. Why did I tell you these samples, why did I give them to you? When Faruk Çelik says that every time he's gone, 50 citizens pressure us, don't close the mines, don't close the mines, don't close the mines, the workers are pressing the mines, don't close the mines... let's not close the mines, let's take care of business safety in the mines. Where should we pay the employee's wages without burdening the employer? Let's pay for the money you're making from this runaway palace, from the covered fund, folks. If you can get money from covered funds to Syrian, Egyptian to Libyan, covered funds to Libyan, if you can carry money from covered funds to terrorists in Libya, you can find solutions for my fellow miners with the same cover. I give you all my love, my respect.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0056par0061	Thank you. Recep Special, Isparta MP who has asked for a group proposal from the Justice and Development Party. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0057par0065	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I'll speak in favor of the group proposal our party group gave us. Before we begin speaking, we ask God's mercy for the patience of those who remain behind, and for the urgent healing of the wounded, for the car crash of the children of Süleyman Demirel University in our district of Yalvaç last week, and for the deaths of the apple workers who moved from Akşehir to Yalvaç. With our group proposal, we're setting our schedule for today, this week and the next. The speaker just made the determination of those who died in mine accidents rather than our schedule. No one has the right to come in here and defend the killings and do politics through death.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0058par0068	Aren't we going to talk, Recep?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0057par0069	Of course, we all suffer from death, but we've been in power for 12 years, and of course we carry the responsibility. Whoever does wrong, and pretends to have something that doesn't exist in the inspection, God damn him, and he'll be damned to death, and nothing will be covered.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0058par0070	It's the government, the government.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0059par0071	Who's in charge of politics, let alone inspections?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0057par0072	Everyone, all of our citizens, must sincerely believe this, but to come from here and do politics over deaths, to collect politics over deaths, to try to profit from death... what do you propose? What's your offer? If you say that from here, we think we'll take more advantage of it.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0060par0073	Our offer is the living room.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0061par0074	We tell the partisans not to pursue the government's mines.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0062par0075	Don't cover it up by saying they're martyrs.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0063par0076	In today's agenda, we're going to put our bill on the agenda today to contribute a little and a half to the fees of those who are actually living in a very disadvantaged way. And then we have an international contract. Again, this week, we'll be able to give security officers at criminal execution agencies about 28,000 staffs here and give our 28,000 citizens the opportunity to have jobs. We're bringing in the pharmaceutical law, the expert pharmaceuticals that all groups agree on. These are our agendas, and we offer your approval, and I hope that you will support us, and that we will do better legal work with the positive contributions of the opposition, and I offer all of you with respect, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0064par0080	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0065par0081	Mr. President, the secretary said I've been doing politics over deaths.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0064par0082	Here you go, Mr. Akar. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0065par0086	My friend, the AKP MP, who claims to have been involved in politics over the deaths, goes running to the mines when they're dead, but no one goes there until they're dead. Now, I'd like to remind you of what Mr. Faruk Çelik said after the incident in Kozlu: We saw one more time in the Kozlı incident, whether there should be a sub-employee there or not? We will be able to bring to Parliament an arrangement that will clear up the issues of subcontractors and workers' rights. The bag is the law. What's in the bag of law about mines? What law do you propose to prevent, prevent the deaths of workers in the mines, rather than the increase in wages? What law do you propose? In death, you come here and talk, and every time, you try to cover it up with God willing. Look, there's something ethical about this, isn't there? There's an ethical side to this. In the world -- wherever it is -- 1, 5, 10, 15 people die, and when they lose their lives, whoever's responsible for that job, whatever political profile is responsible -- we don't ask them to commit suicide -- I didn't do it like a man. He says, "I couldn't do it." He says, and he resigns. We said it in Kozlu, we said it in Afshin-Elbistan, we said it in Soma, we said it in Ermenek, we said it everywhere, we kept saying it, but your Minister is only complaining. The ministry is not a complaint. Who will do it? I'm asking you. You've come to this stand, you've spoken. Who's gonna do it? I'm asking. Will he bring in a government head from Somalia and bring in a government to prevent business accidents in the mines here in Turkey? It's simple, if you can't do that, bring in two experts from Germany, replace all of you, and I think two people will do what you can't do. Now, come here for the bullying, take my word for it. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Yeah, yeah, two, not much. He says it takes two smart people to do all this work, and I pay all my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0066par0093	Thank you. Yusef Halaçoglu, Kayseri MP, who has asked to be spoken against by the Justice and Development Party group. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0067par0100	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. As for the group proposal given by the AKP, we are in favor of the release of these laws, and we have no objection to them, but the only thing that we're really going to criticize here is the motions that we've been constantly setting up here, that we can't set a specific time. So if the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can't get a real fix on it, if it can't move within a program and a plan, then you're going to have to suffer these problems in running the government, not in that plan and in that program. As a matter of fact, Mr. President has been in power for 12 years and has moved to the presidency and says: Here, the Red Book, which has been re-founded as a national security document, states: "Sir, the revolution is again described as a threat to the country. You took it off, you put it back in. For what reason did you put it, and why did you take it off? Hence, when you consider these things, they bring some problems with them. As a matter of fact, it says, there's talk of parallel construction or legal-looking illegal structures. Now, friends, if there's a legal-looking illegal structure, you go over it, you deal with it within the framework of the law. It's not legal then, it's illegal. It's not illegal to look legal. But, here, then it's your fault. So if there's a legal-looking illegal structure, if there's a parallel structure, it's your fault. Because the President says that they have opened schools in 134 countries. They think they did it on their own. However, both I and my ministers were able to open those schools, asking for support from the governments of that country on our travels. They've opened 13 universities, we've made no obstacles. We helped him with his business activities. Well, then who is it? Who's been cutting through parallel construction for 12 years? You. If you haven't seen this in 12 years, you can't run a government, brother. If you haven't seen a group that's been causing you trouble for 12 years, you can't run a government. You express it, you make it clear with your mouth, then you complain. On the other hand, through the dead... it's become a relic: let's not make politics out of the dead. What did he say? We were there a day later in this coal accident in Ermenek. Mr. State, you left a week after the 99 earthquake. Friend, let me tell you something: can you equate a coal accident, an accident at the coal mine, an earthquake that you'll never guess when it's coming from God?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0068par0107	Van, Van...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0067par0108	Van's the same. The same with the van. And besides, you can't compare the van to the 1999 earthquake. Why can't you? 134 buildings collapse in one, 480,000 buildings collapse in the other. For God's sake, considering geography, there's no politics involved. Why can't it be done? Well, that's the result of the earthquake, and our citizens have been harmed, victimized. I was in the area during that earthquake, I was in Istanbul, even at the time of the earthquake. It could have happened to me, it could have happened to other people. But with this, I don't know, you can't compare the issues of human negligence, it's wrong. That's not what a statesman does. On the other hand, dear friends, again, the President says: You know, we've lost four martyrs in the last week. Three of our soldiers, dressed in civilian clothes, were shot in the head, shot in the back, martyred in Hakkari. Another one was killed in Diyarbakır. Dear friends, we've given four martyrs within a week. Mr. President, we call it the opening process, then the national unity and brotherhood, and now the solution process. It's been five years since we started this process. I mean, for God's sake, there's a limit to your patience, but what's the limit to your patience? How long will you interfere? You haven't done it yet, the entire district... the prosecutor there... like, go to Bethushebap today, go see how you're going... people can't go to the market, bro. That was in the papers today. Until what? What's your limit? What are they gonna do? On October 6th, 8th, 49 of our citizens were killed, burned, destroyed. We've actually seen what your red line is in Iraq when you put a bag over the soldier's head, and now we see it in Syria. Look at what happened today when you kept quiet and quiet to the Turkmen there. Your patience, my friends, is known to God, that the Messenger of Job may have cracked. This is beyond patience, so don't do this. On the other hand, friend, right now, we're about to discuss a raise, so we've been telling the faculty at the university for years. If a research worker is particularly interested in doing research, he needs some material resources so he can go to the archives, the libraries, and complete his doctorate. They needed it so much, and they were really behind. Now, this is the right thing to do, but I'm going to say one thing to your conscience: one worker, one person working for minimum wage, 849 lira gets paid. Friend, think of a worker who lives on 849 liras for a month, but if he builds white palaces to satisfy some egos... the official statement of the Ministry of Finance, 1 billion 370 million dollars spent, he says, this is an official number. So with the old money, it's spent a quadrillion dollars at $370 trillion. He's got a thousand rooms, bro. Tell me, what will you do with this thousand rooms? That's one. Second, how are you going to clean a thousand rooms? How much will you spend? How are you going to do this thing with it? I need a thousand garbage cans, simple as that. What are you gonna do, for God's sake? What's with the pride, bro? What is this? Where do you live? So you're not going to die? While the Ottoman Empire ruled over three continents, it ruled 23 million square miles of land and remained in a humble palace like Topkapi Palace. Until when? Until 1850, with a sign of collapse. He borrowed 50,000 pieces of gold from England, and built the Dolmabahçe Palace. Oh, have a heart! And for $187 million, you get a plane, a white plane, a flying palace. I mean, for God's sake, aren't planes enough? The Austrian Prime Minister rides the bike, takes the subway, bro. What's with the arrogance?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0069par0116	Teacher, what's wrong? I'm getting in too.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0067par0117	What the hell is this? He's spending government money, not yours. You can spend your own money any way you want, but there you say you've done your share of money. You say, "We've done this much bread aid." You say, "People are going to work below the ground for £840, and then you're going to live a life of ridicule." If you don't answer for this here tomorrow, which you will, don't forget that you will tomorrow in the presence of the Lord of God. Every living thing, remember, is a taste of death, and one day we'll all go under it. Today, under water, those who enter into the ground to dig coal are martyrs, but I give all of you the respect of the man, the man who has no fear of God, the man who eats the right, the man who spends the money the state has entrusted to you, the man who gives it to you in this way, and those who approve of it, the man who must think of how they will pay their dues in peace tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0070par0121	Thank you. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Under Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly You're on the 37th floor of my Law Proposal 2/63. In accordance with the clause, I respectfully submit to you the necessary procedure. The bidder is Ali Riza Ozturk, Mersin MP. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0071par0135	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were arrested in 1977 as a 19-year-old high school student. The islander was so confident that his innocence would be revealed, that he would be released, that he did not join his friends in the escape attempt at Ulicans Prison. The court chief, who judged him, claimed that Adalı was innocent, so he made the decision, but it was of no use. Necdet was hanged on October 8, 1980, when he was 22 years old. This timeless death is beautifully illustrated by the Turk of Dawn, written for the island by poet Nevzat Çelik. The Turk of Dawn is the most beautiful picture of this death. Don't look for me here, Mom. Don't ask my name at the door. There's a star in your hair, Don't rip it off, Mom. Don't cry. I've been shaved for a long time, My eyes waited for dawn, As I stretch out my hands, My ear's on the beam. I miss death, Mom. It's crazy to want to live. Just a few hours after the islander, a 22-year-old boy walked to the gallows of Mustafa Pehlivanoğlu. Another name was Erdal Eren, who was arrested at the age of 17, and was executed in Ankara Central Prison on December 13, 1980, even though he was under 18 years of age. Thirty years from now, on another September 12th, we're going to deal with these tortures, these atrocities, these inhumane practices. We'll deal with young deaths, timeless goodbyes, with the mindset that carries 17-year-olds to the oily Urga. On the day he said, "It is September 12, 2010." Dear MPs, I don't know if God found it or not, but these are all the words I've read today's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's speeches at the AKP group meeting on July 20, 2010. After all this talk, I've offered you this law that I have. This is the proposal of the law, which says the President's speech at that time, or even here, not speaking from crying, which we thought was sincere to him on the matter of settling with September 12th law. After the coup on September 12, 1980, 50 of our young people were executed by extraordinary rules of law in the 12 September martial law courts, citing political and left-hand action. The issue of this proposal, friends, is this: I want the laws of the court, which exercise power and power from coupgers during the 12 September 1980 coup attempt, by implementing the extraordinary laws of law, or rather by quickly making the decision of the court, which rules on the quick execution of law, are to be lifted from the law of ratification in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. By this law, we won't bring back our boys who were executed. If Recep Tayyip Erdogan wants to deal with the coup law of September 12th after he becomes President, first, the laws on the implementation of those massacre decisions by the Turkish Grand National Assembly, where the coup of September 12th was brutally and unlawfully massacred. Therefore, this law is called the Law Offer for Resolved Laws on the Fulfillment of certain death sentences. When we accept this offer, we will not bring back our murdered young people. It's not a matter of return, it's not a question of restitution, it's because their reputation is in the hearts of the Turkish nation. If the President says these people are being hung unfairly and unlawfully today, if he's saying that to get a vote from the nation at his own group meeting, we have to do it, friends. That's a five-minute thing here, and we don't need to talk about it here. So I demand that this bill be brought up and discussed, and this is the turndown sheet for whether or not you're really going to settle with the coup law. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0072par0155	Thank you. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, Uğur MP who asked for a statement on behalf of a member of parliament. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0073par0159	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a commitment here to submit my views on this proposal from Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk. The proposal is very clear: due to the coup of military fascists on September 12th, we demand that the laws passed by executioners who can't stand the pressure of fascist coupters, on political grounds, without the principles of fair trial, be lifted from force. We're supposed to be judging the generals of September 12th. People who were 80 or 90 years old were tried. But none of the people who actually did the fascist coup on September 12th, tortured there, and put young people to death in violation of all the principles of fair trial. So, in the September 12, 2010 referendum, we said that the constitutional amendment would actually be subject to a demonstration trial, which we found to be so. The burden of these political trials, or rather the lack of justice, must be lifted immediately over the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Execution is not a punishment. As a result of their years of struggle, all lawyers were able to get the death penalty lifted in 2002. However, it is not enough that only the death penalty is lifted, but today, unfortunately, the executions are being carried out by law. During that period, three plants were executed in the previous period, 72, and 50 of our people were executed after 1980. These people, all of these young people, were given the death penalty, and no legal reason was based on it. A trial, conducted for purely political reasons, in order to eliminate the revolutionary struggle of that period, was, in fact, the result of a trial without a trial, a reason for the death penalty. These 50 of our people -- from the island of Nacdet to the land of Aslan -- had really expressed their view that this country could be saved in a different way, in any way, in any kind of struggle, in any kind of revolutionary struggle, or in its own effort. Perhaps there were some acts of violence among these people, but the death penalty was never punishment, and the judges, who were in those courts at the time, who were in fact given political purposes and were in charge of many of them not to be executed, clearly said that those people's punishment was not execution. They said, most of them were innocent. They said, or perhaps life. They said, "There may be life." But, because there is no return of the capital punishments, our people were left in the gallows, and they were gone. Now, in the same way, there's actually a lot of non-judgmental executions done by the law. In recent cases, the Sledgehammer, Ergenekon, and Oda TV, although not the death penalty again, the legal executions of people were caused by the unjust. Many innocent people were killed by Kuddusi Okrır, and by Türkan Saylan, they were killed. Many people have lost their lives and have been sentenced to years in prison as a result of political trials. Yesterday, those who have seen the Balyoz and Ergenekon cases know very little, and the witnesses have made it very clear that there was no attempt at any kind of coup. Well, then, why did the people there go to bed for years? I wonder who's going to pay for those people staying in prison for years. There's no point in giving 3-5 cents. Then we need to see that in the event of the politicalisation of the judiciary, there are many illegal things that can be done by means of the judiciary, by means of the use of law as a weapon. Finally, I want to say that six people -- five of them soldiers, one civil servant -- are still in prison in one of the cases of conspiracy, which is being carried out under the name Istanbul espionage case. Unfortunately, the application has not been discussed by the Constitutional Court for nearly a year, and there has been no solution to the victims of those people. It was a case far more severe than the situation in the Sledgehammer and Ergenekon case. His name was espionage because his name was prostitution, and people refused to touch him, even to go to trial, but unfortunately, it became clear that all of this was wasted. But these six people are still in prison. These people need to be released as soon as possible. I'm also inviting the Supreme Court to be sensitive about this. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit06spe0074par0171	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a break from the merger until 8:30.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0074par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 9th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Now, we're going to vote for members of the Justice and Development Party group that are available in some commissions. Ankara MP Fatih Şahin for membership available in the Plan and Budget Commission... I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. For the empty membership of the Human Rights Review Commission, İstanbul MP Bkent Turan... All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move on to the Law Bills and Proposals of the Agenda and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the negotiations of the Constitutional Commission Report and the Interior Charter Proposal on the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the 3rd ranked President of the Turkish Health Institutes and with a law proposal similar to the Law Bill on Changes in Some Laws and Laws, and the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the 4th ranking, MP Ali Öz and Milliyetci Movement Party Group Group Chair Mehmet Şandır as well as Tokat MP Reşat Asşat and Nationalist Movement Party MP Mehmet Şandır as well as Bartın MP Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya as MP Ali Öz and Milliyetçi Movement Party Group MP Oktay Öal as well as İstanbul MP Aydın Ajan Ayadı as Ankara MP Zühal Topcu as; Antalya MP Gürkut Acar The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 651 rows. On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Halil Aksoy, Ağrı MP. Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0075par0034	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on the entire legislature under discussion of Bill 651. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, demand for higher education in Turkey is increasing every year. In parallel with this growing demand, the number of university students and scientists also has a rapid increase in the number of students. In 1994, exactly 20 years ago, the number of universities in Turkey rose to 196, with a total of 56 countries, 53 states, 3 hundred foundations. The number of students, about 1 million in 1994, is now nearing 5 million. Again, the number of lecturers, about 40,000 in the same year, has reached 140,000 today, but the important thing is not to increase the number of universities as quantitatively. In Turkey, colleges, education students and education systems have serious problems. Unfortunately, in Turkey, universities are not given scientific and free education. It is also known that universities are institutions that are trying to be dominated by capital forces that are in the service of the state at all times, where they are trying to be shaped for the interests of the sovereign system. The universities, which are areas where information is produced and socialized, also have the potential to take a critical position in the system because of its transformative power in society. Because of these characteristics, universities have been tried throughout history to be constantly under pressure and control by sovereigns. Over the past decade, transformations in the higher education system have also increased in parallel with the radical transformation of educational services. Members of parliament, on the one hand the policies conducted under the Bologna Process, on the other hand the goal of structural transformations in secondary school has been increased by a university project in each province, Turkey's higher education system and the map of the transformation of our universities in this system. With the establishment of new universities, college-like sign schools, which are only intended for teaching services, have also emerged. There is a weak link between these universities, which are sort of the upper tier of middle school, and the process of producing scientific information that is found under free thought and criticism. The way to become a scientist in places that reduce the ability to do critical, scientific studies and focus only on education is through tests that do not touch the question of quality. The reason why academic staffs are inadequate in these universities, which are based on the logic of stringing the kervan on the road, is because of this populist logic, which lies in unfocused policies. As a product of September 12, 1981, the SEC was founded on November 6, 1981, while its 33th year was ending, it still exists despite the social agreement to be lifted, even seeking to strengthen it with its central government restructuring efforts. It is clear, however, that the CUK, the junta institution, was formed to contain the faculty and students that it considers an important component of social opposition. The SEC is the sum total of a relationship system that predicts all the components of universities that destroy all higher education with its authoritarian, repressive structure and mentality, to be able to think and behave according to the state's mind. With this centrifugal structure, higher education is to create people who can't connect organically with society, who have no social belonging, who are alone, who worship power and power, whose existence is unconditionally adaptable. Of course, the SEC, which is the primary carrier of the entire process, should be perceived not only as an upper body, but as a sum of the relationship system created in the interest of the capital that allows formal ideology to be reproduced in universities. Universitys are scientific, research and educational units consisting of institutes, schools and research units, with autonomy and a public legal personality. Universitys consisting only of universities of higher education or institutes, without basic science and social sciences, cannot be universally considered universities. In the general autonomy and corporate personality of each university, the faculty that constitutes that university must also have scientific freedom, management autonomy, and corporate personality. At the 1965 meeting, the World University Association prepared and published the Lima Declaration on the Autonomous and Academic Freedom of Higher Education Institutions. As stated in the Lima Declaration, "academic freedom" refers to the freedom of academic community members to learn, develop and transfer through research, study, discussion, documentation, creation, creation, teaching, teaching, teaching and writing. The basic need for universities is the expansion of academic freedoms, financial and administrative autonomy; the free, qualified work of scientists. Dear lawmakers, increasing numbers do not always lead to a qualitative change. The main problem in Turkey is not that there are fewer or more publications, but that there are no qualified broadcasts, but that the democratic and liberal conditions are not created for this. The name of a positive change here is not a policy based on performance, competition, incentive, direction, but a liberal policy. Of course, the performance criteria imposed on the teacher are known to be for greater profit. It is impossible to accept the application of the academic incentive system, which is nothing more than the performance criteria for the produced education and the quality of science which will further reduce its quality. So we think that this arrangement should be removed from the bill altogether. Dear lawmakers, the government's policies on universities have been carried out through the adoption of the flexible working model for academic staff, without the norm staff, without the title without the norm staff. Research workers are the first to be affected by these practices. The vagueness of the job descriptions of researchers often results in forced labor. Despite doing the same work, researchers work in staffs with different rights of identity, such as 33/a, 50/d, SIP. When researchers employed on the 50/D staff complete their master's degree, they are terminated by not being transferred to relatively secure staff, which means they are terminated during their most efficient periods. Over the past few years, there have been more than 100 research workers who have been laid off at Istanbul Technical University alone. However, the rectorship has once again shown that it considers researchers seasonal workers by adverting staff for 111 researchers at Istanbul Technical University. In addition, academic upgrades have been transformed into a status quo hierarchical military order. The most obvious example of this is the process of receiving the title of professorship. The Interuniversity Board cannot operate the application and jury creation system. The assistant professor, professor and professors have individual applications and injustices are increasing. The consolidation of the concept of capitalistic business under conservative influence leads to staffing in administrative organs and thus setting up the study content, the education programme, in this framework. In newly opened universities, it is very possible to see this tenure from the management level to the lowest point in the working hierarchy. For the benefit of society and nature, all education and scientific workers must be provided with proper working conditions and employment guarantees for the university. It's one of the things that is conditioned on increasing the quality of academic studies that prevents staffing at universities. In this framework, the flexible and unsecured running policy must be terminated. All obstacles to the freedom of organisation of both academic and administrative workers must be removed at the university. The academic working environment must be saved from the hierarchical structure, and together it must be based on production, instead of the sub-prime relationship. Academic titles shouldn't be transformed into hierarchical indicators, shouldn't be used as a commercial population source. Dear lawmakers, with this bill we've discussed, the government offers the fees of the faculty who have not received their rights for years as a blessing. It also implements academic incentive grants and provides performance-based fees at universities. The administrative and technical staff who work at universities have always ignored it this time. Despite the economic crises, increasing unemployment and inflation data, education and science workers have not been able to improve their salaries for 14 years. The fact that the real wages of the academics have been severely corroded for a long time and no improvement has been made. See, the bill has ignored administrative and technical personnel. Moreover, administrative and technical staff who work at universities receive lower wages than other public institutions due to additional payments. Also, the necessary improvements to the rights of academics have not been made in years. We don't organize the mission descriptions of researchers at the bottom of the academic ladder within scientific criteria. We're turning teachers into slaves by having their training program staff sign a large amount of bonds. In terms of efficiency, performance, competition, quality, rhetoric, the government, which imposes labour and insecurity on workers, wants to enforce performance-based wage implementation under the name "accessive incentive." This effort speeds up the academic community's ability to produce scientific information, to pursue income-profit jobs, to replace solidarity among workers, to replace competition, and to prevent universities from becoming universities. It should be known that performance control is a Trojan horse sent to the public staff regime for the sake of the unsecure. Those who say they aim to increase the number of publications under the name Performans are making a major distortion. Today, what is needed is not a lot of literature, but a quality publication. The basic condition is academic freedom. It must not be forgotten that academic freedom is also guaranteed work. Now, when we look at some countries, Turkey is ranked 20th in the scientific order, 306,926 scientific publications have been published, but the number of scientific publications in a country as large as the Netherlands and with a very small population is 547,637. In the United States, there are over 7 million scientific publications in China, over 2.5 million in France, and nearly 2 million in the United Kingdom. Turkey comes even after a country with a very small population, such as Sweden. This shows that Turkey's scientific publication report card is very weak. The number may rise, but it's also a fact that we're not interested in international science. When we look at universities, we're not in the first 20 percent of the scientific publication point. Maybe we can be in the first 100. For example, there are 14 universities in the United States, four universities in England, one in Canada, one in Japan, but Turkey is not among these 20 countries. In addition, an inequality between the regions is evident in Turkey as well as in scientific research. There is not a single university in Turkey that is in Kurdish geography in the first 20 positions of state universities, and it is the same for foundation universities. Members of parliament, the prosecutions, investigations and firing practices of scientists who conduct studies on issues that concern public health are enough to shed light on this situation. The fact that we're talking about performance control in universities means that the current problems of unsecured and flexible employment and pressure on workers are rapidly increasing. While assistants are being slaughtered in many universities, universities are condemned to subcontract, while administrative and technical staff are being stripped of their rights and social rights and forced into labor, these changes under the name "capademic increase" also mean the institutionalisation of flexible and unsecured work at universities. Dear lawmakers, we, the People's Democratic Party, demand that the salaries of all education and scientific workers working in higher education be improved, and we insist on it. We also want to say once again that we do not accept steps to institutionalise unsecured and flexible employment in universities. We can point out that we find the first article of the bill missing, but we can only support it, and we demand that the second and third article be removed from the text. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0076par0061	Thank you. Zühal Topcu, Ankara MP who has asked for a speech on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0077par0065	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on behalf of the entire bill of law on the amendment of Higher Education Staff Act 651. I salute you all. In the last years of AKP power, especially in the field of education, we see that sounds that we can express as very loud, multi-head, noise are becoming too much. First of all, we want to ask: Despite so many voices, despite the fact that there is a Ministry of National Education on the Council of Ministers under the name of the Ministry of Education and that we cannot see the Minister of National Education when there is an insurmountable situation in education. I wonder if anyone's seen it. Nabi Hodja, I'm not telling you, we're telling the Minister of National Education. I wonder who's in charge of national education. First of all, we want to know. As I've just said, everyone's talking in the field of education. At the opening of a university yesterday, Mr. President said: "First as President General, then as President General and Prime Minister, we set four priorities for those governments that I was president of for twelve years. One is education, the other is health, the other is justice, and the other is safety. We took decisive steps in these areas. Praise be to God, we've moved on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and In these four areas, we've moved Turkey to really different places. Where did it reach when it was called different places? We have concrete data, where education comes from, where justice comes from, where safety comes from. It's called a health clinic, but it's called an appointment. It's called an appointment, we can't make the appointment. When you look at the drugs, there's a covert charge, secret cuts from the salaries. Now, when no one mentions these things, there is a constant effort by the choir to shut down the negative images of things that are currently being implemented while trying to be expressed by a common new Turkey. Really, our country is in a very different place right now. But where? He's a lot worse off than he used to be. We'd like to know if the allies in our country have reached these different places. The International Transparency's other findings on Turkey are this: Turkey is 43 percent among 142 countries in the global competition league. In the index of independence of the judiciary, of the 142 countries, 88. Of the 28 countries in the bribery index, it is 19 percent. In the human development index of 187 countries, it is the 92nd. The freedom of the press index ranked 179th among the countries. In the league of corruption, Turkey is also part of the group of countries in which corruption is the highest in Europe. We now know what Turkey's ranking in international exams is when we compare the works of twelve years of power. And these are constantly hitting us in the face through the press, like a slap in the face with mass media. In particular, we know that unemployment rates among our college graduates are at the highest level. During the 12 years that AKP was in power, we see that they failed to fulfill any of the promises they made in government programmes they read during the 58th, 59th, 60th, 61rd and other governments. We read every government program in person today, especially before we came out here. The last time we look at the Government Programme, which was read by Mr. Davutoglu, we can see that none of these programs are on the ground, and that they still create a place of action to share their fantasies. Problems in education, health, justice and safety in areas set by the President have been raised by snowballs, and the government has been overwhelmed by these problems. In particular, the problems in education have become inextricable. There are dorm problems, education quality of students going to college, RDS problems, questions stealing, injustices, injustices, injustices in the tests of TEOG, particularly the failures in the appointment of managers, there are many more mistakes that we can count, and we want to say that the demand for courses at public education centers, which are now open at the end of the school, or at work, is increasing in numbers in the classrooms, so when we look at all of this, when we compare previous data with the current data, we're dealing with a very bad result. Today, especially on November 4, 2014, Mustafa Necati's Middle School Assistant Director Hayri Özkan was gunned down by an 8th-grader. Our teacher is currently in intensive care at the hospital. Now, we wish the vice principal an immediate recovery, but we want to say that violence, violence in schools -- we no longer speak of other dimensions -- has become this, that the teacher has become capable of gunning for his life. We've told you before, we want to highlight the use of drugs in schools, the increase in bonzai, the state in which youth is being dragged. In fact, we would like to discuss the better conditions for the bill to improve the salaries of the university professors we're talking about today. Of course, the improvements in salaries will please us, but this has to match the reality of the country. With these improvements, a professor's salary will go up to 5,000 liras, a professor's salary will go up to 3,657, assistant professor 3,300, researcher 3,200 liras. Data from indicators of the limits of hunger and poverty made by trade unions and many NGOs show that these salary improvements are not enough. How will academic staff work in our country, where the hunger limit is $1.205 and the poverty limit is $3.926, and how will they represent our country outside? When we think of them together with the family of four, we can also think about actually having magical powers to provide for this family. Also, since there will be no cuts from these payments, other than the stamp tax, the planned higher education compensation will not reflect on retirement. There's also an academic incentive grant. These payments will be made in 2016 and cover all work in 2015. There's a uncertainty going on here. What are the criteria? By whom will these criteria be evaluated? There's no certainty. The process of the criteria will be left at the mercy of the director? That's what we're asking, it needs to be clear. The fact that higher education compensation is not included in the pension and, therefore, does not increase the pensions of academic staff is a major flaw. In accordance with Act 666, additional payments are being made to some officers, which amount to 1,500 lira, and additional salary hikes are expected to be made to the members of justice. These increases should also be reflected in academics' pensions. Especially this month, with both electricity and natural gas increases, and especially inflation rising, we can say that a large percentage of those increases in utilities, needs, and goods have gone. You know, we're in a combat month, and we're boiling ashram in houses, and we can also say that between last year and this year, when the calculation of a ten-man soup was brought up, the boiling soup increased by 57 percent. Especially this month, we can tell that electricity and natural gas have increased.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0078par0078	You must have thrown a lot of walnuts and nuts.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0077par0079	No, no, no. We can tell you the calculations, along with apricots, nuts, rice raises. Follow them, we'll tell them. When you say retired, we now have 10.5 million pensioners in our country. The government has never fulfilled its promise to the pensioner. The increase in their wages will not prevent them from fighting for their lives under the age of starvation. The pensions of pensioners must be rearranged in order to improve their living standards. The situation is not seen to be bright for the minimum wage workers who are struggling with the same difficult living conditions as pensioners. In our country with nearly 15 million minimum wagers, we see that AKP power is still distracting people by word games. Still, in the latest government programme, Mr. Davutoglu stated that the minimum wage was actually increased by 76 per cent, while he also proved that they would not give up words that were far from real life and smell of envy. What should a minimum wage worker do in our country, who receives 891 lira, when the hunger limit is estimated to be $1.205 in terms of the family of four? He's supposed to be dead. Those who condemn these people should be ashamed. We would like to point out that teachers with the engine and active element of the Ministry of National Education, which is described by Mr. National Education Minister Nabi Avcı as Turkey's largest public institution, also need a new arrangement and improvement. The teacher's salary, which was $2.136 in January 2015, will be $2.220 with a 3 per cent increase. The conditions to work in line with the promotion of teachers' qualifications will be improved so that the teaching profession in the 58th Government Programme can gain the dignity it deserves in society. The expression has also been found to be artificial, superficial, and insincere. These applications also show the importance of the 12-year-old AKP government's teaching profession and education. We have national education administrators who don't accept mistakes, who don't accept mistakes, who can't explain how to deliver services to 22 million students. The worst part is that 25,000 teachers in a year have shared transports from the east and the southeast for various reasons that they don't want to work, and the state and public officials can't go out on the street. At the same time, we can also see that Mr. President expressed it in a speech made by a doctor yesterday at the opening ceremony of a university. We can't go to the city in Hakkari, in Yüksekova. Make a residence for him at the hospital. They have a phrase. Now, knowingly, we live in Turkey, where public officials cannot go out on the street and the public officials you appointed cannot go to their post. How do you explain that? These things need to be explained. If we can't take care of the public official in civilian clothes, if they're being martyred on the streets in broad daylight, how can we still maintain this power and look at these people in the face? With so many problems in all these areas, when people are struggling to live in this country and we lose 301 workers in the accident in Soma, the last 18 workers in Ermenek are underwater, and if we can lose them, they are in the mine, and if we can lose them, a palace fantasy, which has been stated to be called a palace fantasy, has also revealed a lot of facts for the real purpose of power. Minister of Finance Mr. Simsek has now announced that its price is $1 billion 370 million Turkish dollars. At the same time, there is also a flying palace, which was mentioned just now. Its cost is estimated to be 436 million Turkish liras. With so many hungry people and Turkey's economic problems under the influence of snowballs, how do we build these palaces, especially when we're riding on the back of this nation, the employee, the minimum wage worker, and how are we going to stay in these palaces, and how are we going to get on these planes? You're supposed to take some of this and not be able to look the employee in the eye with that minimum wage. Now, I'd like to share with you a computation on these costs: the cost of the black illegal palace, 1 billion 370 million Turkish liras, and the cost of the plane is 436 million Turkish dollars; the total cost is 1 billion 806 million Turkish liras. So, what's the net amount of minimum wage in our country in 2014? The net minimum price, when we calculate it at 800 or so, is the cost of 2 million, 135 thousand people for a month, that's the money that's been paid, that's the money that's spent. The average spending of $1,614 a year per student was spent in Turkey. This figure is estimated at 4,648 in university, 2.293 in vocational and technical secondary school, 1,531 in general secondary school, $1,130 in primary school. With the president's palace and plane, the average cost of 504,000 students per year is affordable. In view of the new school costs, 820 28 schools of $2,200,000 can be built. Look what this country is missing, what we're losing because of a few people's ambitions, how we're wasting money on this country's hard work, wasting money. Since death rates are less than 1.5 billion people in China, and the number of workers who have died in a mining accident in the last decade alone is at least 354, life and escape chambers have become important in mines. The escape chambers in the mines start at $80,000, which is $160,000. At the cost of the palace and aircraft, it's $11,287 escape chambers, and the cost of 40-person living rooms is $200,000 to $250,000. With this black palace and this plane's money, 4,515 living rooms could be built, with the money spent on them. By this power, when our miners were left to die under the ground, Mr. President, he actually built an escape chamber for himself to avoid corruption, theft, and accountability. But sooner or later, this great nation will have to account for the handing of the house, for the corruption of the tender, for the tender pools. We'd like to report this as well. Thank you for listening.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0079par0095	Thank you. Aydın Ajan Ayadın, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on behalf of the People's Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Aya morning.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0080par0099	Mr. President, I have made a promise to present the views of the Republican People's Party on the High School Staff Act, ranking 651. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Mr. President, Mr. Nabi Avcı, Minister of National Education, we're seeing Mr. Nabi Avcı, at this time today. When I see Mr. Nabi Avcı, I immediately think of a test fraud. Whenever the Ministry of National Education makes a test, there's always a mistake, there's a theft, there's a injustice. So wherever I see Nabi Hunter, I always think of corruption in a test, theft in a test. But today we're talking about the salaries of academics, professors, professors, assistant professors, professors, professors, researchers, researchers, we're talking about the rights of these academics who are being paid in hunger, under the poverty line, we're talking about their financial rights. Unfortunately, it's also a big flaw in not seeing the head of the SEC who should be in charge of all of this right now, and I'm condemning the head of the CEC from here. Its basic function is to produce information, to teach and to promote it, and its primary function is the driving force of scientific development and social progress. While universities form one of the feet of socioeconomic development, they are unfortunately unable to enter the lists of good universities in the world. It is clear that our universities fail to meet universal standards. In recent years, however, a number of universities have been opened in our country, as well as 104, 73, and 177 universities in total. With the number of students at these universities, half of which have been opened in the last six years, unfortunately, this development towards our universities has only remained quantitative, and many of the universities that have been opened have not been more than a sign university. As a matter of fact, in the coming years, the NGO has begun to stress that it needs to move from digital growth to qualified growth, that academic human resources need to be nurtured. Infrastructure-deprived universities, which are intended to increase numbers, remain on the sign, will result in dangerous consequences. And more importantly, our students, who have decided to continue their education here by relying on these universities, will be at risk because of insufficient equipment, just as resources will be wasted on these institutions, which are only named "university" and cannot go beyond the sign. In the last decade, the number of students has increased by 3 times, while the number of faculty has increased by 2 times. The number of lecturers against 5.5 million college students remained at 141,000. Moreover, the distribution of this 141,000 is extremely distorted. See, 72 per cent of the professors in Turkey are in the Marmara region, the Central Anatolian region and the Aegean regions. The number of professors working in the southeast is only 2.5 per cent of the number of professors in Turkey. Turkey's higher education has a deficit of 45,000 professors, not me, but the head of the SEC himself. Of course, one of the main causes of this sad situation in our universities is the current financial rights of the faculty. In today's terms, underprivileged autonomy rights, which can be called funny, have a negative effect on the work enthusiasm of current academic staff, which also leads graduate students to avoid universities. The poverty limit of a family of four in our country is 3.926 Turkish liras, according to the latest data released by Turkish-Estice. Given the current salaries of academic personnel, the fact remains that many academics are at an income level below the poverty line. Again, the report by the Foundation for Political, Economic and Social Studies (SETA) on academic salaries also reveals where we are in the world in terms of the salaries of the professors. According to this report, professors in Turkey receive much less than their colleagues in Nigeria, India, Malaysia, South Africa, Brazil and Argentina. The situation regarding the financial rights of academics is known by everyone, but is persistently ignored by AKP power. Despite all our warnings and proposals, financial improvements to public personnel over the past 11 years have unfortunately not been taken into account, nor have teachers been given a position on the salaries of teachers in the Constitution of Law 666, which was released in 2011 and envisioned an increase in the salaries of many public personnel. As a matter of fact, the income of academics whose salary increases are far below other public personnel has been realised in the last 11 years, and is clearly revealed in the SEC reports itself. This framework envisions improvements between $1,170 Turkish lira and $1,750 Turkish Turkish lira as of 2014 on the salaries of the professors, on which I submitted to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 7 May 2014, and was finally on the agenda of this bill. In my proposal, the salary increase is changing according to academic title, and the higher the title, the higher the salary increase gradually. This framework envisions 1,170 Turkish liras for researchers, professors, 1,315 Turkish liras for assistant professors, 1,535 Turkish liras for professors and 1.750 Turkish liras for professors. The bill we're meeting with adds two new pencils to the salary elements of academic staff: higher education compensation and academic incentive grants. If the bill is adopted this way, the professor, professor, associate professor, assistant professor's pensions will be increased by 725 Turkish liras; research worker, lecturer and professor's salaries will be increased under the name of higher education compensation for 834 Turkish liras. But as long as he's on duty, they'll get the increase. If these academics retire, they will not be able to receive this increase. The academic incentive grant will be given to those who have 30 and more academic incentive points, according to academic incentive points for academics to be identified on the basis of their activities abroad or abroad. An incentive grant ranged from 438 lira to 731 lira can only be given in 2016, since the calculation of academic incentive points is based on activities conducted in 2015. In a nutshell, the government finally decided to take advantage of the victims of academics and submitted the bill to parliament on October 14th. Today the General Assembly is on the agenda, and it's good. We support it even though it's late. However, while the first state of the bill was incomplete and inadequate, it was included in this improvement by the experts, translator, educational planners, who had been forgotten in the bill by a motion we submitted on the commission. In this frame, ready, years later, and all our calls have finally emerged in the government, with the will to raise wages to academics, I think it would be better to increase wages to a satisfactory level and raise salary to a career expert's level as the academic title rises. By ascending to the title, such as the government's academic incentive grant, although the government is willing to complete the improvement under the name of the academia incentives, instead of a mechanism that has not yet been implemented and will only take place in 2016, it would be more accurate to do the salary increase directly. Of course, this incentive must also be maintained, encouraged and rewarded for scientific work. The salary increase I recommend to the academics should not be seen too much because this is a strategic decision for our country. Because the way to get out of the middle income trap that we're in is to get out of the middle income trap, per capita income, $15,000, and over it, is not by detecting targets like 2023-2071 at a desk; it's by switching to the information economy, producing technology -- with qualified brains. See, Turkey has been in and out of ten thousand dollars per person for years. It can't increase its national income per person, it's been where it's been for years. In economic literature, it is called a trap. Yes, unfortunately, Turkey has fallen into a middle income trap. In recent years, the Turkish economy has not been able to carry its average income per person for $15,000 per year. Because in our country, the population, the education, the lack of people qualified, our natural resources are limited and our industry is closed to modernisation. With such a structure, it is not easy to overcome the trap of middle income. There is a need for comprehensive, radical, radical reforms. Here is the revenue trap that the AKP's rule has generally chosen, since saving the day is a deterrent of structural reforms, has become a concern for our country. However, according to the World Bank data, there are only 13 countries among the 101 countries that have been considered middle-income since 1960 who have been able to get out of the middle income trap and make a high income. In Latin America, especially in the Middle East, 90 percent of the countries have not crossed the threshold. I know that the AKP's economic establishments are aware of this, but we see that awareness is not sufficient, that the necessary steps are still not taken. When asked how to get out of the middle income trap, the answer will be high-industrial production, qualified people and technology production. So, how's this gonna work? Of course, by investing in science, technology, and by investing in human beings. As a matter of fact, we see clearly and clearly that the secret to the success of South Korea, which is one of the limited number of countries that can cross this threshold, and the president of the Central Bank, which is used as a precedent in Turkey's analysis, is that science and technology are also the key to the success of South Korea. However, one of the motor forces of socioeconomic development is the foot of the sad painting in which it is located, while the other is the sense of quality and governance. The AKP's power, as usual, is late and incomplete. The lack here is clear; universities will not be able to reach the required level, given a salary increase for academics alone. The rights of the academics should be corrected, simultaneously changing the view of power to universities, the understanding of university governance and legislation. Unless this is done, there's no talking about a strong and free scientific environment. See, in Turkey today, universities are governed by the YÖK, a legacy of September 12th; the AKP, which has been complaining for many years after it has taken over the YÖK administration, is now wrapped up in the RSR and will not let go. Through the SEC, all universities, all academics, are now in possession of an understanding of a government that takes them under their command. Thus, as with other institutions, the problem for the AKP is no longer the case. As a matter of fact, practice and examples show that AKP has a need for SEC. Why? The only type is for a high student who thinks as he does, who pledges allegiance to himself. For power, college is no different than a high school education institution. Again, there are no objective criteria and standards for the establishment of rapidly growing foundations in the last decade. This has had a lot of impact on the establishment of many foundation universities recently. You can't start a university on government orders, near power. Even if it is, it is called "universite" (also called "university"). That's what Turkey lives in. As this mentality and the universities established in this way will not contribute to science, the quality of higher education has been eliminated. Here's how necessary it is for the academic staff we're interviewing today to improve their salary, and it's become very clear. This year, civil servants' salaries were raised by 123 Turkish liras. While this increase was being raised, inflation was 5.3 per cent, and inflation today would be 9.4 per cent, which has now been made very clear by the government. Let's make up for the loss of inflation on the officer's salary, let's all do it together, let's raise all the officers a salary for that purpose. The fact that collective contracts are in such a way never prevents an increase in civil servants' salaries. Because you know that academic salaries are part of a collective contract, and the government can increase when it wants to. Oh, no, if you're saying that we want to be the first government to crush the officer with inflation, and that's how we want to go down in history. I wouldn't be surprised. Today, a professor in Turkey receives $4,900 Turkish liras, which only raises the professors $725. Assoc.ents are still getting a salary of $3,539, and a raise of $725. The assistant professors receive $2.845, up $725. Research worker gets a salary of $2.421, raises 834 lira. Teacher, the teacher gets a salary of $2.590, we raise 834 liras. These increases to academic personnel are insufficient. With these increases, scientific research is not possible below the poverty line. Whether these professors will support their homes, pay their rent, or put money into science, do books, do research, I leave it to your appreciation, and although I have not adopted this law very well, it brings a small increase, I wish it to the academics well and good luck. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0081par0123	Thank you. Fatma Nur Serter, İstanbul MP who has asked for a personal word on the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0082par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, today we're talking about a law we've been waiting for for a really long time. No doubt we can say that the raises aren't enough, that our hearts may have wanted more, but at least I'm happy for myself that we've carried out an arrangement that we've been waiting for for for so many years. But there's one thing I'd like to stress very carefully here, which is that, now, valued lawmakers, I'd like to draw your attention to one thing. Yeah, there's a raise going on, but these raises aren't going to go on the faculty's pensions, so whoever gets this raise today won't be able to see the reflection of this raise on his pension when he retires next year. So my wish is to ensure that the faculty will receive an increase that will be reflected directly into their salaries and allow them to receive their pensions only in return for the compensation they receive or the additional income they have been promised in exchange for academic activities. Now, first of all, I'd like to thank everyone who's worked on this bill. I consider it a step forward, but I wish the Justice and Development Party hadn't waited 12 years for this, had been held at a quarter of an hour before the election and not caused various speculations, and we could have made the students more clear, more open, sooner, at least have a income that would have allowed them to study at a private school. Because it's about national education, e, and that's part of it. Today, students are constantly being referred to private schools, and despite this raise, if a professor is working alone, the father is working as a professor -- I mean, the highest -- and if no one else can work, he will not be able to send his child to a private school. So I'm hoping that this will grow further in the future. Now, that's the sweet and sweet part. And as the Republican People's Party, we support that law. Now, let's come to the Justice and Development Party's applications on national education. Dear friends, when I was talking about such a vital subject as education here, I really wanted to say, "What a wonderful achievements have been made in education in these twelve years." However, the Justice and Development Party actually wrote an epic in education, but it's an epic failure. In the history of the Republic, education has never been compared to the Justice and Development Party's puzzle game as much as it was during the ruling period, it has not been staged in various changes, failures and scandals, and the report card of education has never been filled with those who are as weak as it was during this period of power. It's a ruling party on every high-profile issue. Now, let's take a look at what's been achieved in a field that's very ambitious, such as education.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0083par0134	You can't convince us of that.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0082par0135	So, Congressman, can you now say that we raised the quality of education in our transition? You can't, the indicators are clear. We're third to third in PISA exams, third to last. Can you say that in our central exams, we've gone to brilliant, flawless, complete, scandal-free results on our auditions and placement exams? You can't. Every test in university entry systems or middle school is filled with scandals, courtrooms, and failures. Can you say that we've gone to 12 years of mandatory education, that every single student in this country is currently studying at school? You can't. In 2014 alone, 385 thousand students are missing from the education system, missing students. I am not making this up, but I am sharing with you the data I obtained from the Information Act. If there are 385 thousand students who can't be traced, who don't come to classes, who don't come into the system and aren't recorded, you can't talk about quality in education, you can't talk about success. Look, you said: "We will deliver milk in schools." My dear friends, first your milk is out of order, then the milk is down from five days to three days, and now milk has not even begun to be distributed in some schools. So it's very simple that you haven't been able to implement the project that a mayor of ours has successfully implemented in three years in schools.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0084par0139	Sing FATHIH, FATHIH.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0082par0140	You flew a FATHIH Project balloon, handed the tablets to the Prime Minister of the period, adverted it on the mountain, distributed the tariffs. Project FATHIH is bankrupt. There is no connection between the tablets you distribute in schools and the smart boards you have installed, the system is down, the time is up, and the FATIH Project is a project that is so corrupt. And knowing that -- I have numbers, I don't explain -- knowingly, it's dirty.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0085par0141	Explain, explain!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0084par0142	Corruption started before it started.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0082par0143	If you'd like to take the LYS exam, the LYS exam in June. Friends, you put a CSI president in there, he took the kids' tuitions, he screwed 10,000 students, he didn't make it to the exams. I wonder what you would do if one of 10,000 children were yours. Ten thousand students' rights to live have been prevented from adding another one to the failures and failures made by this CSI president in a row. Where's the success in that now? Somebody tell me about success. Let's move on to another part of the job, which is more of a hand and a more graver side than I've ever counted. You've terminated the secular education system. You've ruled out the basic principles of education. You have clearly violated the Education Union Act, which means you have committed a constitutional violation. You're step by step away from mixed education. Don't think we don't see it, we know everything. One step at a time. How do you get away? I'll tell you: in schools, you first separate classes as girls' classes, as men's classes; that's not enough; you separate teachers, women's teachers, men's teachers; that's not enough; you separate canteens, canteens. Do you want a school name? I'll name it after school. Go check out Imam Hatip Anadolu High School in Sincan. You divided the students according to their genders, saying, 'Morninger, and nooner.' All of this makes it very clear that your vision of education, your perspective, and what you intend to do with the new Turkey.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0086par0146	We know about you, you! We know about the convincing rooms.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0082par0147	For you, a test called TEOG is an imam oratory project, nothing else. With the TEOG exams, you forced 42,885 students who didn't want to enter Imam oratories, into imam oratories; they don't want families by force. How would you feel if your child went to seminary or Catholic school?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0086par0148	He won't go, he won't go!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0087par0149	Mr. Korkmaz, please...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0082par0150	Even the children of non-Muslim minorities in this country, you've placed them in Imam oratories. Because that's your view of education. You did this because you saw education as a means of religious political abuse to exploit the child. You closed the heads of the elementary school kids with the turban, it's elementary school, elementary school! You should be ashamed of all this, and you can't call this training a success.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0087par0152	Thank you. Mr. Row, you have a request.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0088par0156	Mr. President, thank you. There's something to say to the speaker just now, but let's remind him of the room of persuasion and let's drop it.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0089par0159	You'll answer what I say, you'll say the same thing, like timcit rice!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0088par0160	I'd like to explain something else, and I'd like to express my condolences.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0089par0161	All the numbers I've given you are figures from the Information Act, so answer him, answer him!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0088par0162	In his speech earlier, Mr. Zuhal Topcu, MP of the SHP, said some things about our President and his new Presidential building, his mansion. We listened to him very deeply, and I condemn him. The president actually built an escape chamber for himself to avoid corruption, theft, and accountability. However, sooner or later, he used a sentence called "the great nation" to account for the tender pools, for the handing out of the house, for the corruption of the tender. Mr. President is not going anywhere, he is proud to do his duty as the first elected president of the people's votes. The presidential mansion mentioned is a place that suits the President of the Republic of Turkey and all the people living in the Republic of Turkey. And I was proud to be the first person to go to the 29th of October ceremony, and I was proud to be there as a member of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0090par0163	1 quadrillion 300 trillion! 800 times, 900 times more prices! Corruption everywhere!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0088par0164	If you examine the history of the Republic of Turkey, everyone knows that the first Chankaya Mansion, Sabarona, and such large places, such private places, were built this way. Because of your testimony on these matters, I condemn and deny the MP of the National Movement Party. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0091par0167	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0092par0168	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0091par0169	Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0092par0170	I think my name gave him the right to answer.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0093par0171	That's right, he used your name.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0091par0172	He doesn't have the right to answer.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0094par0173	No teasing, no teasing...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0091par0174	Mr. Topcu, Mr. Row, if you're being bullied, you can only ask for sarcasm, or there's no such thing as the right to answer...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0095par0175	Okay, I want it without teasing. What did he say and tease you, what did he say?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0096par0177	Blasphemy is a taunt on its own.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0097par0178	Wait a second, don't interfere.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0095par0179	He condemned me.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0097par0180	So Mr. Topcu can't answer or can't we?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0095par0181	He said he condemned me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0097par0182	Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0095par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, it's actually a very clear palace, isn't it? Despite the verdict, if the state of the Republic of Turkey is referred to as democratic principles and as the state of law, it should not be built. I'll do it in spite of all that was said. So, here, in this situation in Turkey -- when we're in an economic crisis and we're dealing with important problems -- we want to point out that the building of that palace has really hurt this nation by disregarding judgment decisions.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0098par0188	What economic crisis? Where do you live? You guys don't know what's going on.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0095par0189	And so far, from the point of view of the services presented on that plane -- of course, the state of the Republic of Turkey, the Prime Minister, the President -- is worthy of important things, but there was no need for them now, let's just say that. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Despite the verdict, the presence of that illegal structure is a disgrace to the state of the Republic of Turkey, let's just say that.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0099par0193	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0100par0194	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0101par0195	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'll answer.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0099par0196	Wait a second... Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0102par0198	I'd like to make a statement on behalf of our group, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0103par0200	Those who are afraid of airplanes may not need a plane.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0104par0201	It's not Turkey that's in crisis, it's the opposition.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0105par0202	Why are you defending the President here, in the President's budget?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0106par0203	You don't know the Civil Code, there's a clause in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0105par0204	Let go of the Civil Code!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0107par0205	The teacher answered him. When the Ottomans went down, he built himself a palace, a debt. He's got it on loan, he's got the biggest debt in history.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0108par0206	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0109par0207	If that's what the teacher's saying.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0107par0208	You know better than that?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0109par0209	So you're saying the Ottomans built a palace when they went down?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0110par0210	Wait a second...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0111par0213	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. President, it doesn't mean that the state is too big to build high-profile palaces. Topkapi Palace was built at the time of Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror, and that palace was used until the age of Abdulaziz. That palace was used in the most glorious period of the state. Then, after 1850, the Dolmabahçe Palace was built by borrowing 50,000 gold coins from the British. Dolmabahçe Palace or Topkapi Palace? Of course, when you look at it as architecture and interior hardware, the Dolmabahçe Palace looks like a magnificent palace, but the fall of the Ottoman state. So...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0112par0215	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0111par0216	What's that got to do with anything? It has to do with this: If you start bringing in raises due to the economic crisis tomorrow, you'll bring in more and more -- if bankruptcy starts in many places, who will pay the price for this palace? It's not from your father's pocket, it's from people's pockets, and it's a waste. We're both Muslims. You say "Muslims." You say "Muslims."
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0113par0217	Bravo, Master!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0111par0218	What are you going to do with a thousand rooms? Explain yourself. A thousand rooms, a thousand rooms! A thousand rooms... how many people will there be, let alone the cost of the palace, security expenses, etcetera?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0114par0219	Will Recep Tayyip Erdogan take it? Is he gonna take this?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0115par0220	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0111par0221	No, sir, just a minute. Who was the plane for? It was taken for the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0116par0223	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0111par0224	This was made for the Prime Minister, but he was President of both the plane and the palace.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0117par0225	Yes, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Row.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0118par0228	Mr. President, thank you. The authority we're talking about is an office for the Republic of Turkey, not Recep Tayyip Erdogan's personal property, and will not take it away.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0119par0231	Why didn't he leave it at the PM's when it belonged to the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0118par0232	This was made as the presidency of the Republic of Turkey, which is one. Second, he hurt my community. He said the speaker, our congressman friend. This building has been known for several years. The community, which you call "swift," has approved Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan with more than 50 per cent of the vote, and has sent him there, and I want to say this in particular.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0119par0235	That was before the palace was built.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0120par0236	50 percent of the 38 percent of the population!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0118par0237	Third, he's talking about an economic crisis. As my friend just said, what world are we living in, or are they not aware of the facts of Turkey? The Republic of Turkey is at a time when it has experienced its highest economic data so far; as there is no crisis, Turkey is clear. We continue to serve for better days. This was built for future governments, for presidents. If they have goals, the next president will sit there. I hope one of them has the honor of sitting there. Sitting there, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan sits as the first elected President of the building in accordance with the law. We're honored to be there, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0121par0240	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0122par0241	Give it up for me! Waste people's money, spend it!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0123par0242	If we are not the ruler of the nation, we will be made known to those who say so.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0121par0243	Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0124par0245	Mr. President, if you can provide a silence, I'll try to talk to you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0121par0246	Go ahead, sir, silence has been provided.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0124par0247	Now, when we look at our history, when we consider building a residence and administrative building for Ataturk in the Republic period, a delegation led by Rıfat Börekçi bought a bond house with assistance from the people of Ankara, and Mustafa Kemal Ataturk today was built in what was described as the "Kankaya Mansion" as giving it to the National Ministry of Defence. Ataturk had only one request, one request, and not one tree will be cut down. Now, when we come to the present, the will of the Ataturk Forest Farm, which Ataturk had entrusted us with, in the beginning of a palace called the Prime Minister's Palace, was broken. In the following phases, many organizations, such as the Ankara Chamber of Architects, the Ankara Bar Association, and the City Planners' Room, have filed lawsuits against this building. Ankara 5. The Executive Court has halted construction of this building on a 25-page basis. Despite this decision, the Prime Minister at the time violated the rule of law, which is described in Article 2 of our Constitution by saying, "Whatever decision the current President makes, I will sit here." Second: the president came here and took an oath. Although the Constitution has sworn to uphold its rule and rule of law, it has broken its oath to go there. No matter what you look at, we're dealing with an uncouth building where the entire law has been slaughtered, the heritage of Ataturk, the Turkish people's money has been trampled, and it's sunk to the ground. Many of the Turkish people today's workers, workers, small-income people, let's take a breath. In a painting where incomes are expected to increase, so much money has been spent humblingly, no one can admit it to anyone. This building is an illegal building. Ankara Metropolitan Mayor must seal this building if the Prime Minister can afford it. It's no trick to go to the slums to seal off the citizens' buildings. If you can't seal the presidential building that started today as the Prime Minister's office, you're out of line.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0125par0251	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Türkan Dağoğlu, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Mountainoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0126par0258	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Law on Changing Higher Education Staff Act No. 651. But I'd like to talk to you about the matter just now in a few words. Dear lawmakers, since you're not in it, perhaps you're looking from a distance, the Presidential Palace might look different to you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0127par0260	We're not going in because it's dirty.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0126par0261	But believe me, Turkey is a very big country, and a palace like that really suits the presidents of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0128par0263	It's a shame, Hajji, it doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0129par0264	You can't control Bethushebap! Leave him alone, you don't have a master in Bethushebap!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0126par0265	But I want to get to a point where it takes strength, power, that promise...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0130par0267	He's a fugitive, he's a fugitive.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0129par0268	You don't own Bethushebap, you don't own a small town, you don't own a small town! You can't protect your soldiers, your soldiers!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0126par0269	The Marmarays, the third bridges, the third airports, the fast trains, all of that, and how well the Presidential Palace suits Turkey.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0130par0271	What do you look good in? He's a fugitive, he's a fugitive! What are you defending?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0126par0272	God bless his good-byes. No matter who sits down, no matter what party, all our presidents... we also saw the presidents who turned off the lights of the Chankaya Mansion and kept Turkey in the dark, and that's how this country saw the presidents. Dear MPs, please, be proud of them.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0131par0273	How can we be proud of the fugitive?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0126par0274	As for the plane of the presidency: our president doesn't walk on the ground, which is always in the air; for Turkey, for his nation, for his state, he's already traveling from one country to another. Therefore, it is fitting for the President of the Republic of Turkey. I wish there were better ones, better ones. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, anyway, what we're doing -- or what we're saying about law enforcement -- is that we're talking about law enforcement -- is that there's a constitutional violation of everything -- but why, for 12 years, the AK PARTI has been running this country, and it's been a huge success. So, while reviewing the 4+4+4 system today, the MP must have known how much damage the closed vocational schools have done to Turkey, how qualified professions cannot be found in Turkey, and can't be closed for many years.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0132par0278	What does a professional imam have to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0126par0279	It's got a lot to do with it. Because it's definitely...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0132par0281	You've been imam-hating all of your vocational schools for ten years.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0126par0282	If you'll excuse me, please, I'm talking; you've spoken, we haven't interfered, please shut up.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0132par0283	Are you sending your child to imam hatibe?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0133par0284	Mr. Akar, please.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0132par0285	The poor kid's going to imam-hat, your kid's going to private school.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0134par0286	Not at all, not at all, Congressman. Take a good look at that.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0135par0287	What are you talking about, Haydar? I'm sending you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0132par0288	Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0136par0289	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0137par0290	In the development of Turkey's democracy, it is no doubt a critical function of universities in the progress of economic development, and every well-grown human resource that is needed to achieve its goal of becoming one of the top 10 major economies in 2023. While Turkey's future is being shaped, it is important to have independent research in universities in social and political matters and to have an environment of discussion where all opinions can be expressed freely. Because colleges are places where all kinds of ideology is discussed, but they shouldn't be ideological. In addition, our world and our region is going through a historic transformation process. The accurate interpretation of this transformation and the need for an answer depends on the upbringing of well - trained experts. One of the main reasons why universities don't get the attention they're asked for is because they don't offer enough attractive opportunities for people, even though they have high expectations for the critical roles of universities and universities. The current system is far from competitive on both global standards and national levels. The system must be subjected to a comprehensive transformation and reorganised with a vision that will ensure the effectiveness of the university mission. The employment conditions of the teaching membership profession must be handled in a separate frame from other public employees and reformed in a manner that is consistent with their mission. A structural transformation programme that will radically change the working conditions and pay system must be put into practice. In the new system, an employment model and title structure must be kept flexible, a salary system associated with individual and institutional success should be defined. Dear lawmakers, compared to average professors' salaries in countries competing with Turkey's economy in international competition, professors in Brazil are 22 per cent higher than professors in Turkey and students in Argentina 46 per cent higher. This is a common problem for all of us, lawmakers in power and opposition. This is why, today, this law has been brought to parliament, and there has been a improvement in the salaries or wages of the faculty in this law. Is this healing enough for today? I don't think so. However, if we want inflation to escalate, if we want to embrace the IMF...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0138par0295	You'll build a palace!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0137par0296	But Turkey's budget has its own schedule. Were we very happy as a ruling deputy, as an academic, that this so far had not been corrected? Of course not. We've already told the government, and we've repeatedly discussed it with the Minister of Finance, but of course they have programs and budgets to implement.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0139par0297	Because the election wasn't close.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0137par0298	And therefore, he came to this House today. I don't think it's worth it again, but yes. I say yes. As an academic and a ruling party MP, I'd like to say here that I'm going to try to increase this further and reflect its rights. Because it's certainly not easy for an academic to grow up, and there's a lot of work that's been given him. The wages they've been paid so far are really very low, and there's no doubt that it's going to be a little bit better with this, but the heart desires that this will soon be corrected a little bit more, even to the highest levels, to the most advanced countries, and so that these academics have done their work in a more comfortable way, of course, for the future of all of us, we have no doubt that these values will be better for the future of the country, but I do wish that it would be good luck for all of our academics, and that this law, again, for all of us, is good luck for all of us. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0140par0302	Thank you. The question-answer process will now be done. The time is twenty minutes, ten minutes of asking questions. Mr. Erdogan, please.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0141par0306	Thank you, Mr. President. I really blame the Minister of National Education for leaving the General Assembly when such a law is being discussed.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0142par0308	He's here, he's here.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0141par0309	Your ministry has a number of judicial decisions that the appointment of 1,709 branch managers based on the appointment of director of the Ministry of National Education, Administrators and Development Act. Therefore, why is the appointment of these branch managers, whose appointment is no more, not canceled? It's a disaster that these branch managers, who have been appointed against the law, are involved in the executive commissions. How legitimate are the decisions of these commissions, which have led to countless injustices? The head of the commission, which will be appointed by the Muğla National Education Directorate, we, the county managers, have determined the managers to work with, and it is clear who will even be assigned to which school. We're just going to grade these. Is there any administrative action on Milas County National Education Director İradet Young, the owner of the lyrics?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0143par0311	Thank you. Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0144par0313	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, how many schools do we have in Turkey that don't have the title of dean, and how many schools do we have that don't have the title of professor? How many universities do we have that don't have the title of professor? My second question: how much did the smart board pay for the tablet FATH Project? How long has he been paid? In what schools did his application take place? When will it happen? Why isn't this practice happening, is it being questioned? My third question: how many schools were burned in October 6th? How many perpetrators are caught in these burning schools? What is the age group and educational status of these perpetrators? My fourth question: PE and sports institutes are waiting to be appointed. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0145par0319	Thank you. Mr. Oz... no. Mr. Erdemir, please.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0146par0322	Thank you, Mr. President. He suggested the destruction of Bosphorus, Bilkent, and ODTÜ, in a column of 20 proposals to Erdoğan, one of the writers of the New Dawn daily, which served as a Pravda today. Mr. Erdogan is now in the presidential office, and I think Mr. Prime Minister Davutoglu is responsible for this proposal. How do Mr. Davutoglu and your Ministry view the proposal to burn down three of Turkey's top universities?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0145par0324	Thank you. Mr. Flagtutan, please.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0147par0326	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the director of Artvin County National Education, who had his child trained at the school of the congregation before this congregation operation, took his child from there when the operation was performed on the congregation, where he was taking him to public school. He took a test when these school principals were suspended. Their test is a total disgrace. They told me last week in Artvin, in my constituency. To find out which school will be the principal, they go to the barber in Artvin, and the barber says: "In the following week, the principal will be appointed to this school. You may not believe it, but they learn from the barber which school will be appointed to which school. I wonder where that barber gets that power! Does the butcher and the greengrocer have school manager assignments like this? I'm seriously curious about him. I asked you a written question, I gave you a motion to investigate the House. I'll ask under the Information Act. Can you explain these questions in the transcripts? I'm really curious. Artvin is also -- it's done all over Turkey -- but it's completely irregular. I'm a lawyer myself. I'm curious about this barber, too. I won't give you his name. Call a county education director, tell him this barber...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0148par0333	Thank you. Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0149par0335	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, is there any reason why a very important part of the appointment of principals of the recent mid-level schools -- about 5,600 percent of the school principals -- were elected among the same union, education-Birt union teachers? Were these appointment managers evaluated according to the clothing of the teachers entering? Are they being evaluated according to the newspaper they read? What kind of unfair test has been made to make teachers of the same union? Do you find that discrimination correct? Do you find the Constitution to be in accordance with the principle of equality of the Constitution? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0150par0340	Thank you. Dear Silver...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0151par0342	Thank you. Alumni of archeology and art school are in large unemployment. It's said that there are 40,000 trained employees in this area. And we're learning in public that five people were employed in these areas in the last pick-up. Archeology is very, very important. Art history is a very important branch in the development of modern people, in the development of modern Turkey, in life, in the philosophy of life. In this area, instead of art history teachers, you're already taking this elective class -- you're taking teachers from other departments, you're putting them in. Are these normal? And I'm going to talk about this palace. Those who waste such great things, who enter such greatness and build such large, unnecessary structures, have not been able to sit in them; Romania, for example, is now half empty.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0152par0346	Thank you. Mr. Reminder, here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0153par0348	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there has been a recent transformation of many secondary schools and elementary schools that we have witnessed on the Anatolian side in particular. Despite the resistance of all parents, it's done by force. TEOG exams were applied as a method of imam-hating schools. For example, the Rezan Has Elementary School was divided into two classes, divided into tiny classrooms; the gym and library of that school was destroyed, converted into imams. Again, a school in Dudullı was divided into two. The National Education Foundation in Uður Mumcu has unfortunately been converted into our school of imam-haki, and in some schools the food and services will be provided free of charge. The hanging of these ads is a deterrent of the children in that area going to these schools, a deterrent of these economic woes...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0152par0351	Thank you. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0154par0353	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I'm curious about a few things. Now, our districts, like Kayseri/de Pınarbaşı, Tomarza, are still educated in united classes. When are you going to fix these? Which, as we've just been told, has been spent 1,800 million euros on the palace, but with it, 860 schools could be opened, 28 classrooms. Now, when is it going to be time for all this? It's been going on for how long, and the transport system's still going on. On the other hand, I wonder how many libraries we have in our high schools, or do we have libraries in our high schools? I'm just saying because I know you're not, some of them, most of them. How many libraries are there? Do you think about the library? And is there any other period in which 7,000 principals were suddenly dismissed? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0155par0358	Thank you. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0156par0360	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, let me be more clear: the private school of the university of Menderes, the county director of education, is clearly giving his child to the school before. Imagine, a public servant, the national education director of the county... you are the Minister of National Education of this country, how would you feel if you gave your own child to private school? I mean, what do parents think? The director of his own national education is giving his own child to private school. And then you know what gives up? Because the partnership is broken. When the partnership with the congregation and the government is broken, he takes his child from school and gives it to public school. Now, the same Director of National Education is operating on Artvin, and I don't mean how he did it. Now, those who took the exam, the test reviewers, yesterday's kids -- let's just say -- have been asking teachers for years like that, they get 50 points, Mr. Secretary, for those who have to get a perfect score under the Information Act. Now, make a phone call tomorrow, tell the Director of National Education, "Did you or did you not give your child to the community school?" I'll apologize to you, but if it's true, Mr. Secretary, what are you going to do? I wonder if you'll put it in the fridge.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0157par0363	Thank you. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0158par0365	Minister, education management in schools is experienced. Seven thousand training managers are very incompetent, inexperienced, those who were appointed by you, appointed by you, appointed by you as director of the company, who, as an experience, would never be compared to the manager they took from that post, as a knowledge, as a savings, were removed from their posts, just by union advice, and, you know, by the advice of the barbers. The commissions you've set up to replace these 7,000 people with now-assigned managers, what are the driver's licenses, liabilities, and information of those commissions? It's just an interview, Director. You're taking a test when you're getting a student at school, you're taking a government exam when you're getting an officer; why don't you take a test when you're being appointed head of an institution? Why did you depose the board of examinations?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0157par0366	Yes, thank you. Mr. Secretary, please... Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0159par0369	We don't listen, we ask for nothing.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0157par0370	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0160par0371	Mr. Secretary, have you heard the questions?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0372	Sir?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0160par0373	Have you heard the questions?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0374	I heard, I heard.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0160par0375	Inshallah!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0376	Now, let's start with the easy questions. How many universities do we have that aren't professors? There's no such thing, all our rectors are professors.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0162par0378	All?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0163par0379	The dean? Mr. Secretary, the dean?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0380	There are no deans who aren't professors, and there's no law against that.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0162par0381	But it would be wrong if they were found out.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0382	Of course we'd be embarrassed.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0162par0383	You'll be ruined.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0384	That's why I'm scared to say it. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0162par0385	But it was in the papers.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0386	Don't believe too much in the newspapers, believe your Minister.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0162par0387	It's an insult to journalists.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0164par0388	The Speaker writes everything, do you believe it?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0389	No, don't believe too much. Don't believe it. I didn't say it. Don't believe it too much.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0162par0390	Let's see, we'll look into it.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0391	Let's investigate, let's investigate together. And I was curious because something so surreal...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0162par0392	Maybe it's a power of attorney or something.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0393	I don't know about that. It's noble...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0162par0394	Mr. Secretary, this can't be happening. If he's acting, you have to answer him.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0395	No, I said I don't know, I'll see.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0162par0396	But how can you not know, how can this be the Ministry?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0397	I'll look into it. Which faculty, one by one...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0162par0398	I mean, if you've appointed a deputy doctor, I don't have a dean who doesn't have a professor title. You can't say that.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0399	He'd have to be appointed to be dean. There's no delegated dean without a professor.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0162par0400	If you have appointed a doctor as a guardian, there is a doctor there. There's no need for a law.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0165par0401	They both have to be professors.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0402	Now, the RD representative has made it clear. No power of attorney.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0162par0403	Sir?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0404	There's no power of attorney.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0162par0405	No?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0406	No.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0162par0407	Okay. I'll renew my question later.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0408	Okay. Now, we're going to need a statement about the appointment of these managers, the dismissal of the principals. You know, with our latest arrangement... we've arranged for the school administrators who've completed four years. In this case, our number of executives, our number of school principals... some of our friends mentioned about 40,000 in press conferences, or even the first commission when they're talking about it, they're going to be worth 100 grand and so on. Even though we explained it there, then this urban legend continued. Our four-year-old number of managers is 16,000 across Turkey. So was the evaluation process, and the commissions weren't done by skill. The assessments of these directors were made by the most experienced teacher in each school, the senior teacher, one, the most senior teacher, two, student representative, three, head of the PTA, four...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0166par0411	Minister, these are 35 percent.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0412	Wait a minute, I'm moving on.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0167par0413	It's an interview.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0414	...the county manager and branch manager he's connected to.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0168par0415	He's talking about the AKP's brothers!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0167par0416	Unless...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0417	They didn't make an assessment by gathering in a commission. We thought if they were a commission, they might influence each other, so we asked them to do their own independent evaluations in electronics. In these assessments, we have set about 100 ▪ a criterion to ensure that they adhere to objective criteria as much as possible. We would set about 100 percent of the criteria, including basic features, skills, that should be sought by a school principal.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0167par0418	How did Mashallah get that education-BIRD-SEN?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0419	And as a result of these evaluations, half of our 16,000 principals have been reinstated. 75 out of 100 and higher areas have continued their duties.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0169par0420	So he was connected to a certain union?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0421	Other than that, those who will not continue their duties are either continuing their teaching or applying to new managerial staffs, even if they are not at that institution, to be assigned to other empty institutions. So, the process went on like this. Did the union play a role in anger here? Could the county managers really have misjudged the managers they didn't know, that they didn't know very much, that they didn't know well enough to make an assessment of him? They might be. Nitelim, in some complaints we've received from teachers, the senior teacher, the most senior teacher, the head of the PTA, and the student representative compared the averages of the scores given by the district manager and branch manager, so if there's a very dramatic difference, we're doing research on them, either because of personal hostility or union anger.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0170par0424	Mr. Secretary, do you believe what you're saying? Oh, please!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0425	We're investigating these in case there were different applications, and we're working to make it up to them.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0170par0426	All the managers have been replaced, you've given points to teachers he's never met in the county.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0427	Yeah, that's right, in some places new county managers have been appointed.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0170par0428	Not in some places, Mr. Secretary, but in 80 percent.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0161par0429	No, no, this kind of thing could have happened in a lot of places, and we know that, and we're looking into it, and we're trying to do it.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0171par0430	Couldn't they have communicated with each other, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0172par0431	They're deceiving you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0173par0432	Put your hand on your conscience, and say a clear word about whether this system is true or not. Have you always had a high score here?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0174par0433	Anyway, that's where the argument comes from.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0175par0434	Mr. Akar, please, you've asked your questions, Mr. Secretary will answer them, allow me.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0174par0435	Now, really, when we look at the syndical distributions of the appointed executives, we see that the members of the EDUCATION-BIR-SEN are in the vast majority. There could be an innocent reason for that.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0176par0436	Coincidence!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0177par0437	It's against the probability distribution.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0178par0438	It's always possible, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0179par0439	The largest union is the EDUCATION-BIRD-SEN Union, which is already in the cluster, more of the EDUCATION- ONE-SEN. Two: The EDUCATION-BIRD-SEN Union has done something that other unions don't do, and has put all its members, who are running for office, through serious training. In fact, there was a question here, a book of preparation for an exam, an Ataturk book on the history of Ataturk and the history of the English language, a training book that the union had prepared to prepare its members for the executive exam, as if it were the publication of the Ministry of National Education. Well, with that kind of material, he's seriously prepared his own members. Now, why are you preparing your members for the executive exam? We have no right to call a union.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0180par0441	You're right, Mr. Secretary, you're absolutely right!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0181par0442	No, there's also pressure to transfer to the union, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0179par0443	But we also see that inter-union competition plays a role in these matters.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0182par0444	Minister, do we look naive when we look from there? I mean, does it look like that when you look at it from place to place?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0183par0445	I mean, really, Mr. Secretary! You don't believe that, Mr. Secretary, I swear you don't.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0184par0446	Why don't you study too, brother?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0185par0448	It's about these interactive boards, you've asked smart wood, but we want to call them interactive boards instead of smart wood.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0186par0449	From the beginning, your people told me, saying, wise wood, the former ministers.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0185par0450	Out of 346 thousand boards, 11,000 grow up to the end of the year, the first phase of the 11,000. 246,000 will be placed by the end of the school year.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0187par0451	Mr. Secretary, do these boards exist, where do they work in the current system?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0186par0452	Does it perform its functions? Are they paid?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0185par0453	He's getting it. The infrastructure's already settling in.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0187par0454	Can you give me one example? I want to go check it out tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0186par0455	Is anyone performing their function right now?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0185par0456	If you go to school with any interactive boards, you'll see.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0187par0457	I've gone too far, I haven't seen it anywhere, but it's interacting!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0188par0458	You don't see anything either!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0189par0459	Mr. Secretary, we're asking you here, it's a shame, this is your answer!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0190par0460	Give me a list of schools you don't see
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0191par0461	Come on, Minister!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0190par0462	There are few schools you don't see, so give me his list.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0191par0463	Let's go together, Minister, and go to any school without warning.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0192par0464	There's Şırnak, go see!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0193par0465	Give me the name of a school that's being implemented, and we'll go there.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0194par0466	Now, are we going to ask questions and answer each other like this...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0193par0467	But Mr. Secretary, please... I mean, we want answers that fit the Minister of National Education.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0194par0468	You ask your questions, I give my answers. I'm giving the Minister the appropriate answers to questions worthy of the congressman.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0193par0469	How many schools are being applied? Is there a school name applied? The complaint comes from the parents, saying, "It's not in school, it's not in school." They're paid for...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0194par0470	What's that?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0195par0471	Mr. Longhorn, you asked the question. There is no such procedure, please listen.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0194par0472	If so, the schools that complain...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0196par0473	Honey, that's not the way to answer a question, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0195par0474	Listen to the Minister's answer. He'll answer.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0196par0475	There's no such thing as an answer.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0195par0476	There's no procedure like you do. You asked a question, wait for the Minister's answer. I'm telling you the procedure, yes.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0196par0477	There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0195par0478	Come in, Mr. Secretary. Come in, please.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0479	The number of schools burned down: our school was destroyed in several degrees. There's a $65 million grant out on these. We're trying to make things better as soon as possible.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0196par0480	That's not what I asked.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0481	No, but you didn't, so it's not just the questions you're asking.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0196par0482	No, no one else asked how much damage it was, no cost asked.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0483	No, I'm answering because a friend asked me. You don't like each other's questions! The last time, 15 days ago, in Mardin, we collected 23 districts of municipal education directors and reviewed the destruction of their single provinces. I'll get these as soon as I can... Of course, now, we can only finish the school that's been destroyed after the construction season, but we're doing the other ones. Is there a dean who is not a professor? He may be the dean's assistant who asked you the question; he is a professor.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0198par0486	No, no... if you want, I'll ask. For example, even the Chancellor at the University of the Silver House is not on the staff of his own university. Ibrahim Chechen University...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0487	That's something else. That's not a legal obligation.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0198par0488	Look, there's no point in taking refuge in legal necessity. The President of the University of Silver House is a member of the Black Sea Technical University.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0489	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0198par0490	There are only six schools at Ibrahim Chechen University, two professors on the staff of that university.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0491	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0198par0492	And you're telling Turkey that we've built this much university.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0493	Your question was, do you have a dean who isn't a professor, a chancellor who isn't a professor?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0198par0494	Is he on the staff of the university?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0495	If you ask that, you already know the answer.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0198par0496	Is he on the staff of the university?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0497	You already know the answer to that. He doesn't have a legal obligation, which we're explaining.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0198par0498	Yeah, well, everything should be carried, anyway!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0499	▪ When will the combined classes end? - The library to high schools... How many libraries are there in which high school? Of course, I can't recite this right now, but I'll look into it, and I'll let you know in writing.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0199par0500	Doesn't he have a watch or a minute, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0501	Mr. Halaçoglu, there are classes united in Kayseri. You said, if you gave me the names of those schools, I would... It's likely that it could be elsewhere, not in Kayseri, but elsewhere.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0200par0502	Kayseri/de in Pınarbaş..
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0503	Because of the schools that are being built, we have classes that are united, and we also have -- what another friend of ours said in his question -- combined with imam-hatres.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0201par0504	Çanakkale is also present.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0505	Temporarily, let's say an Imam-hatip school is also opening up in an Anatolian high school. In opium, for example, the end, my...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0202par0506	It's not that, I mean, there's not enough classrooms or teachers, so we're talking about combined classes.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0507	That's what I'm saying, there are schools that go on making, when they're done...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0202par0508	No, I'll let you know, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0509	But let me take the individual samples from Kayseri, and let's see why there's a unified class application. The others, the merger of imam-hating schools, especially in imam-hating secondary schools, have a serious construction thing, and our benefactors have a serious contribution. As they run out, we're going to separate them from other schools, so this temporary ad will not continue there.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0203par0511	Mr. Secretary, the deadline is complete. Could you complete your statement, please?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0512	So, aside from the questions, am I going to talk here?
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0203par0513	No, Minister, the interview is complete.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0204par0514	Mr. Secretary, about Artvin's National Education Director...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0515	And about Artvin, now...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0203par0516	Minister, if you'll complete your statement...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0517	Let me finish.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0203par0518	Please, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0197par0519	Yeah, he could've given it to a private school. Private schools also belong to the public school, the Ministry of National Education. I can't condemn any of our executives for giving their child to a private school; they may have given it, they still have it, they're the National Ministry of Education schools, they're doing the Ministry of Education curriculum; they don't have to ask me when they're taking it, they don't have to ask me when they're giving it to me.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0205par0520	Yeah, that's true, but it's unethical.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0206par0521	That's a very good answer, Mr. Secretary, thank you!
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0207par0522	Thank you, Minister. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I hereby submit to your votes...
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0208par0527	I want enough numbers for a meeting.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit07spe0207par0528	There's a roll call. I'll do it. I read the names of Mr. Gök, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Akar, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Özkoç, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Sun, Mr. Horseman, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Serenbaş, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Chiray, Mr. Silver and Mr. Haberal. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit08spe0207par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 9th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough attendance in the roll call before the vote was passed on the articles of the Law Bill No. 651. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit08spe0209par0007	For the record, CHP doesn't vote, or rather it doesn't go into roll call, prevents the increase to academics.
tbmm-2014-11-04sit08spe0207par0009	[[Investigation continued with electronic device]] Members of parliament, since the second roll call did not provide enough for the meeting, it was agreed that, in order to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, on Wednesday (November 5th 2014), it was 14 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
