tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press voting buttons and report that they have been in the hall, that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to submit the roll-call ballots to the presidency for three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Judahya MP, who asked for a statement about the problems at Seyitömer Lineit Administration and the Termic Plant. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0002par0013	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, I would like to take you to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on different occasions and share with you one more time, unfortunately, because of some recent social events, in order to inform both you and the responsible and the public. On this occasion, I salute the High Council and all the citizens who follow us. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the Seyitömer Liniyet Corporation and Seyitömer Termic Operator, which operates within the central district of Kütahya Ili, have been privatised as a circle of the privatisation fair, which the AKP governments launched as soon as it came into operation. Last year, exactly one year ago, on June 18, 2013, I said that this privatisation was wrong again with another non-responsive speech from this platform, and that privatisation of this form would be a victim to many employees in the future, and I invited the interested to take the necessary measures. However, in terms of the day, the minister came to defend the business very passionately here, even accusing us of not doing business, saying that they had made the sale of a business that was profitable as a very good sale to the Grand Assembly. After privatisation of these enterprises, the esteemed lawmakers submitted their demands to İSKUR, saying that close to 300 people must be laid off after which some workers have not been able to find a place to run the business because the sale of coal is not primarily within the scope of the tender, and then 109 workers have been laid off. On 17 April 2014, workers working in the business launched an act of protest that none of us approved or desired by any of us, and after the suppression of these incidents, of course the trial was brought to trial after the criminal complaint to the prosecution, and as the judicial process continued, 109 workers were accepted to be extradited by the workplace and by the actions involved in the work and then 20 workers, and then 18 workers who were working in the operation, ten days ago, and all workers who had been laid off of work have been removed from work until ten days after the sit-down. Two days ago, I went to visit workers and their families who acted in the business, and as soon as coincidence left, a friend of ours was struck by lightning as we talked to them about what we could do with our workers under heavy rain, and many of our friends were affected by it, and the tragedy continued. Dear lawmakers, politicians and intermediaries who now promise that workers will not be victimised during the sale of these businesses have now blocked their ears, and they do not look at what is happening here. Now, I'm going to share with you once again what needs to be done about this issue, and I'm going to invite the government, especially the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources and the Ministry of Finance, to resolve this problem. Now, if you've cancelled the sale of coal out there, if we all believe that these workers should work there -- which we believe -- the government needs to find this solution. This wrong practice, which has caused the victims and the victims of workers, must not happen again, but we have seen once again the government's most persistent attitude in Bedan, which has not learned from the events. That's what's going to happen there. After that, the Kütahya Tunçbilek Termik Plant and Garp Linet Enterprises became part of privatisation, where they will continue. I ask for the necessary measures to be taken again, I invite the concerned to take office, and I salute you again.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0003par0020	Thank you, Mr. Light. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. İlhan Demirözüş, who asked for a comment on the problems of our farmers due to the hail and heavy rain in Bursa. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0004par0024	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the problems of our farmers due to the hailing and heavy rain that took place in Bursa. I salute you and our precious farmers and citizens who are watching us on their screens with love and respect. Dear friends, the 2014 agricultural production period in our country began with natural disasters in certain parts of our country during March 2014 and May 2014, due to the lack of expected rains in late 2013. We all know that 35% of our scholarship is made up of fertile land. However, because of the wrong agricultural policies and practices followed by power, we are at the point of losing our farmers, our farmland, our water resources, our nature, and our cultural assets one by one. In addition to the recent climate disasters, I would like to say that our farmers have suffered 80 per cent to 100 per cent of the damage in our districts, where agricultural production, such as Bursa, Osmangazi, Gürsu, Mustafakemalpaşa, Karacabey, Keles, Kestel, Mudanya, Gemlik, Iznik, Orhangazi, is dense. Dear friends, I'd like to give you an example. I'd like to share with you the fact that a farmer who owns about 80 acres of land in our district of Bursa Karacabey lost all his land because of the debt he fell from and asked for help to obtain an SRC document. This farmer is preparing to spend the winter in prison because of his commitment to the irrigation unit. His land is mortgaged and he says it's our last year in farming. I'd like to point out how serious and sad this situation is for our farmers. However, we would like to ask the minister to explain to our farmers and to explain to us why there is not a single law clause for the debt of our farmers in the bag bill, which is now being discussed by the lower commission, which entered into the Plan and Budget Commission as 61 articles. Yet our farmers in Diyarbakir, Mardin, Şanlıurfa, Siverek and Viranşehir have been punished again with gas, water, and baton, expressing their problems and seeking a cure. The Minister had not even heard these cries in his own constituency and continued his insensitive attitude toward the manufacturer. In his speeches, he expressed that Turkish agriculture had stood up during their time, lent billions of loans, returned loans, exported, and was constantly bragging without mention of imports. Our farmers, however, live on being beaten because they do not understand the figures the minister boasts everywhere, that they have never been compensated for the products they produce, especially for input costs, that there is no support for natural disasters, that they want to be taken from the hands of their land by various laws, that they do not know how to deal with them. Now it's added to the state-owned beatings. In light of all these developments, we call on the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism to meet with all of the sector's shareholders and ask that our local agricultural rooms consider the proportions and reports of damage to the area of Marmarality. I demand that the plan and budget budget bill, immediately be covered by the disaster of our farmers for climate reasons, to be compensated for their losses, to the agricultural debt companies, to the power distribution companies, to the irrigation companies, and to the Agriculture Bank, to be wiped out of interest, to be restored in the long term of the principal money, and to your high delegation with respect and love.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0005par0032	Thank you, Mr. Irony. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Idris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0006par0036	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. On 13 June 2014, last Friday, I made a promise to inform the General Assembly of the attack on the BDP county building in Bingol. Dear MPs, a similar flag provocation to be put on stage in Diyarbakır has been asked to be launched on Friday at Bingol. The event was blocked by police in Genç district by the police and was led to Bingöl headquarters by a group of 40-50 people, including rangers, contra structures, and some deep-relationship environments. Although the Ministry of Interior had been informed of it many days earlier, this group, which came to the centre of Bingöl, although the Governor of Bingol, had been informed of the days before the Security Directorate of Bingol, wanted to put Bingol into a dark plan, in which they had a convoy of Kalashnikov guns and shotguns in the city. Unfortunately, what happened that day in Bingol, Texas, brought to our attention the scenes that led to the search for the films. This group, armed with Kalashnikovs and shotguns, came in great comfort to the building of the Peace and Democracy Party, and when they came in front of the county building, they opened fire at random. Bullets that hit a bank branch in either the party building or near it have not been hit by a great coincidence by people and the loss of their lives was not caused by God's protection. We know it's a deep provocation. We'd like to share here a dark plan which, despite our warning days ago, is directly responsible for the dark planning of the mayor of Bingol and the Chief of Police of Bingol, who did not take precautions, and who helped bring this provocation into effect. We say that an immediate judicial and administrative investigation into those responsible, especially the Governor of Bingol and the Chief of Police, who aided and abetted those who brought this provocation, should be brought to the People of Bingol in a manner that will immediately be relieved of duty. We've talked about this council bench a year and a half ago, and there was also a provocation in Bingol, which was the form of an armed attack on the BDP county building. At that time, the death of those attacks with full police direction and assistance was not a result of a great coincidence. After the events of that day, there have been no criminal investigations, no administrative investigations, not a single removal of the subjects. Since that did not happen, the BDP County Building has been deliberately targeted by the state, and the AKP, which has not carried out any investigation into the plan, which includes the information of the AKP's elected party, has, in effect, invited today's attack. Let us make it clear that the people of Bingol no longer have confidence in your practices and in this system of justice. If an 18-year-old high school student who sentenced a 16-year-old girl to life imprisonment with false indictments, protects soldiers who have been raping and sexually abused for years, a judicial system that protects them has not done anything about random shootings at party buildings with Kalashnikov weapons, it is no longer possible to talk about justice there. Thus, it has brought with it an actual situation in which the public would seek its own justice. We'd like to rephrase that this is going to be a dangerous dimension. We say that what needs to be done is to bring these attackers and these provocateurs to justice as soon as possible, and that the necessary task force must be carried out by the start of administrative investigations on those responsible, including the Governor of Bingol and the Commissioner of the Police. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0007par0045	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I'll promise 10 of our friends a minute short. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0008par0048	Mr. President, thank you. Last Thursday, Bartın MP Riza Yalçınkaya and Yozgat Republican People's Party's Party Chairman and executives were at the centre of Yozgat Province, Lök, Büncýrlı, Serblı, Yamaçlı, Çakmak, Derechepni, Icuhisar, Abdilli, Yakalak, Yenikış, Karakuyu villages. Some 80,000 acres of wheat, lentils, chickpeas, and beet-planted land have been damaged 100 percent in these villages. Our manufacturers have been faxed over, and their faxes have been delayed by 3% interest. The Agriculture Bank is asking for an interest-free postponement to agricultural loans and private banks. Besides, the manufacturers here need seed. In the coming period, they demand seed from government officials so that they can plant seeds in their fields. Besides, they need funding, they've got nothing left. I'd like to invite the government to be sensitive about this, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0009par0051	Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0010par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a province that's flourishing in heromarash textiles and industry. Over the years, we've fought very hard to get our airport to international standards. We've built many parts of the airport on our own terms as heroes. This is what we ask the ministry of Ankara-Istanbul flights and the redesigning of their watches. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0011par0055	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0012par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. In Iraq, the blood takes the body, murderers, murderers and tyrants slaughter Turkmen, the AKP government watches what happens. The cries of the Turkmen surround the land. Turkmen, Telafer and Tuzhurmatu are being torn out of their homes, expelled from their homes and slaughtered. The Turkmen are experiencing human drama. 200,000 people who are now on the road to save their lives from Telafer are trapped between the calimer and ISIS. ISIS slaughters Turkmen, fires them, robs them, watches the AKP. Turkishmen ask Turkey to protect their screaming safety. The AKP is looking at the drama of the Turkmen in silence; the prime minister is silent, the government is silent, the ministers are silent, the AKP is quietly watching the Turks die. The AKP is responsible for the massacre, exile, and firing of Turkishmen in their homes. Watching the Turkmen massacre is about supporting killers.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0011par0059	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0013par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. And I strongly condemn the ISIS attack on the Iraqi Turks, and I would like to express that we are immediately awaiting the government's support. In addition, Zinav's thermal tourism centre, located in the district of Reshadiye in Tokat Province, Turkey, is threatened by the destruction of the quarry that operates here. This is an exceptional place, except in the most beautiful places in the world, and in the lake and in Zinav Canyon. The fact that the quarry here is within the tourist zone is causing the natural tissue to break down, the beauty to disappear. The decision made by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism makes the region's citizens uneasy that the quarry facilities are not closed. I expect the state's officials to comply with this decision, to be done in order for the decision to be carried out, and I salute the Grand Assembly. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0014par0064	Dear Varli...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0015par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. At the moment, a measure has been put into place for the publication of the news on Mosul, yet some of the drivers who were taken hostage by ISIS are reaching out to us on the phone and saying that they are in a very bad situation. Today, there are two drivers from Ceyhan district of Adana province who are being held hostage; one of them is Tahsin Surar's son, and the other one is from the village of Kızıldere. They're both screaming, we're being kept here without food or water under the heat, and ISIS will kill us if we don't get paid. But when you look at the government, there's nothing for them, as if these hostages were going to be released. We expect the government to take immediate precautions regarding these hostages and to comfort our people's families, the people who are waiting for them, and to rescue our people who are being held hostage there as soon as possible, and also to come up with a solution for the Turkmen. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0016par0070	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0017par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, the demands and reactions of schools, students and parents who have served successfully in many districts of Istanbul for many years and who have met the demands of the people of the region have been turned into imams. In particular, these transformations have been said to have been an imam oratoric deficit since the school year in Kadıköy and Skopje. Finally, it has been said that the secondary school in Skopjedar will be opened as an Imam orator school, which is supposed to be transferred to the state's private administration for primary school without charge and to start serving as an Ata 2 elementary school. Üsküdar, also in Üsküdar, İstanbul, III. The decision to convert Selim Elementary School into an imam-gap school led to the reaction of students and parents. Last year, despite parental objections, such transformations took place in Kadıköy, Intaş High School, Watcherbaba High School, Ahmet Sani High School. Thus, students and their families are being transformed into existing schools. Why not build new schools, where existing schools are converted, if need is needed? I ask that this be answered by the Minister of National Education.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0018par0077	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0019par0078	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, there's been a PKK terrorist organization in our country that's been specifically referring to our country's property, all its adjectives, all its features, all its properties; they've been cutting off the road, cutting off the backs, lowering the flags. Now there's another ISIS from the government that feeds on politics. They say it's the government that feeds on it. We get that from the newspapers, from the press. Now, this PKK wasn't enough, but how is it insensitive to the destruction of what we call the Turkish-American region in Musul, in Kerkuk, in the political sense of this government? I wanted to tell the managers through you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0020par0082	Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0021par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Lapseki, Umurbey, Tsardak and Bajramic, a cradle of the gardens of cherries, apples, peaches, and nectar, which meets the vegetable fruit of Turkey and Istanbul in particular, lack of produce this year by about 80 per cent because of the heavy rain and hail in our counties. Therefore, our farmer is miserable, unable to pay for fertilizer, diesel and medicine. I would like to announce to government officials that these farmers who are victims here want their interest to be postponed and helped, and in that sense, the necessary measures to be taken. At this rate, it is self-explanatory that it will not be produced next year, and they will have to remove the trees, and I want to make it very clear that Istanbul and İzmir will be fruitless. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0022par0087	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0023par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. On December 17th and December 25th, the AKP's ministers, who were arrested for their thefts, are running away from the fact that they have not been able to participate in an investigation motion against them. In addition, to cover this up, it seems that they occupied our consulate in Mosul to change the agenda, but there are 49 of our consulates currently in captivity, almost 90 prisoners of the Republic of Turkey. The government's irresponsible, and it's not ashamed of the public and the nation, and it's not giving us any information. Where do they want to bring this country? If they can't do power, if they can't afford it, let them take the honorable and honorable ways and resign. I mean, there are so many innocent people killed in Iraq today, and even though it's the power and the head responsible, no one's saying a word. I mean, does the country have to rebel, or do they have to have riots on the floor of this House and around here?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0022par0091	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0024par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, an extraordinary process is taking place in Iraq. The ISIS group first occupied Mosul (Musul) with its own forces, while the consuls and consulate officials in Mosul were taken hostage by our truck drivers. Now, this organization has again occupied Telafer, with its own forces. This movement, the occupation movement, the invasion movement, is not clear where to stop, a process that is extremely out of control, insecure, life-threatening. Telafer is the second region in which Turks live in Iraq. In order to seize the oil wealth of the Turks in this region, they have been asked for years to be driven from this region by intimidation, immigration policies. Now, these brothers were driven from Telafer, and sought refuge in the nearby area of Sincar, but they were not taken there because it was small; they remained in the land. According to Mr. Davutoglu's statement, over 100,000 Turkishmen are at stake. What is the government doing about it? There's a serious process going on there. I'd like to ask the Minister to brief me on that.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0025par0095	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0026par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, he shot a 60-acre pear garden in Gürsu, expressing the need to review the implementation of agricultural insurance. TARSIM officials have asked for no kickbacks on these pears here until the harvest period, but the farmer thinks that if he doesn't do this kick, he will lose his garden by fireburn. Similarly, because of the excessive rain in Orhangazi, Iznik, Mudanya and Gemlik, the flowering period in the olives is not covered by TARSIM insurance. It means that this should be taken into consideration, and I thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0025par0098	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0027par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. From Tusurmatou, particularly Telafer, there is now a great cry, a call from the Turkmen. In my direct phone talks with them, they said that they wanted to be taken away from their weapons, but other than that, ISIS began to walk towards Furuk, and ISIS threw mortars from the Sunni regions of Telafer, to the Shiite regions, and again massive massacres were being carried out in Tusurmatu. About 150,000 people are moving toward Sincar, and they are talking about the trials and tribulations that they will suffer on the road, and they are seeking immediate help. I'm making an urgent call to the government about this. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0028par0102	Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0029par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the democratic solution process, which we have stood behind for 18 months since January 3, 2013, has also led to new risks with the insensitivity of the government and the AKP. In the process of our witnessing, those who should be able to bring honorary peace to our people with qualified steps are willing to surrender and disenchant our people by treating them as political hostages. Our last party, a 30-year-old named Celal Jaker from Mush, who has been guilty of not only carrying out democratic political activity for 12 years, but of the fact that our friend, who is not guilty, has unfortunately been convicted of speaking democratic politics. This is a paradox. With your attention, we will either lead to politics, or some non-political violent arguments remind you that you will continue to steal our future once again, with respect.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0030par0106	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In foods offered to consumers, the Constitution is 98th, under the Constitution's 98th, in order to determine the credibility of foods consumed by the public and all measures taken in this area, in order to ensure the safety of the public, in order to ensure that food safety is constantly supervised, and the prevention of human health-threatening additives and production under unhygienic conditions. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of a parliamentary investigation. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] 6) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Pain]] [[Bingöl]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Bitlis]] [[Hakkari]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] At the G-20 Summit in Mexico, concrete steps regarding food safety are among the goals. Turkey is the head of countries that will need new regulations on food safety, veterinary and plant health. Food security is also one of the most important topics in the European Union process. The title was opened in 2010, and it seems extremely difficult for Turkey to adapt to the European Union's acquisitor on this issue. In this case, the EU acquish in the field of food safety, animal and plant health policy needs to be adapted, but Turkey is still far from that goal. Safe food consumption is vital to public health and is the most important topic in the European Union process, he says. In Turkey, food safety is of no importance to governments or businesses. In addition, there is no ban on additives; no under-strength products can easily reach the manufacturer; while in the United States, Russia and the EU, many protective additives are banned because additives allow the manufacturer to produce more economic products and remain on the shelf longer. It is vital for public health to prevent the sale of food materials referred to as "under the stairs." But in Turkey, in general, it is very common to sell and consume products, especially in public, without labels, without packaging, without expiration dates, without permission from the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalry. While effective measures have been taken so far to prevent non-registered and sub-stairs food sales, the production patterns are tolerated, and the production patterns that threaten public health are allowed. The legislation on food safety and quality has been set, with the minimum technical and hygienic conditions of food workplaces, and the control and control services of food and food legislation in contact with food and food, and the rules of business responsibilities have been set, but there are few businesses that remain dependent on such legislation. There's also no constant control and control in this direction. In Turkey, ovens, bakerys, food companies, and other food producers should be inspected periodically as a whole, producing unhealthy food for profit, and closing producers that are not fit for hygiene consumption. In order to conduct inspections in a healthy manner for food safety, adequate staff and technical facilities must be provided. In most of the products offered to consumption in Turkey, the use of non-products is extremely common. At this stage, we don't know what we consume as a society, what conditions food is produced and what is involved. Although unsanitary production patterns are sometimes deciphered, most of them continue to produce this way. Public health needs to be maintained and kept at high levels of health care, and controlled from the production of foods to the consumption of good generations to ensure that the public will be fed with good and good food. There is no healthy statistics on food safety. The necessary measures must be taken at once, coordinated between relevant public authorities, preventing off-the-book production. To that end, a research commission must be established in the House. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 16 June 2012, we would like to announce the opening of a Parliamental investigation of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Internal Affairs Articles 104, 105, on the basis of Articles 104, and 105, in order to investigate allegations related to the crimes committed by 13 people at the Sanliurfa E Type Closed and Open Correctional Institution. With all due respect. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Ardahan]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Gaziantep]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Manisa]] 8) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 16) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 17) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] 20) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 23) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] On 16 June 2012, 13 people died tragically in the wake of events at the Şanlıurfa E Typei Closed and Open Correctional Institution. One of the terrible incidents in prisons within the Ministry of Justice has been reflected in the public that there has been serious negligence in the Şanliurfa E Type Prison cases. The names of those who lost their lives during the fire in prison are: Şükrü Uldes, Fuat Yıldız, Sinan Özalp, Mehmet Salat, Suphi Koksal, Yunus Eskili, Mehmet Emin, Hüseyin Kesseç, Mehmet Kemal Kılıç, Taner Simsek, Bakır Tek, Mehmet Aslantay, İbrahim Halil Kaya. According to the Human Rights Association's reports, from 2002-2011, 331 and 322 of our citizens were killed in custody or in prison, according to the Turkish Human Rights Foundation. Since the number of deaths in custody between 2003 and 2011 was 44, the number of deaths in prisons exceeds 270. Thus, my hand in Şanlıurfa cannot be considered isolated, but it also reveals structural problems in prisons. According to data provided by the General Directorate of Punishment and Inquisitorships, 69,512 prisoners and prisoners were found in prison in 2002, while the figure was reportedly reached 132,060 in April 2012, while 8,076 people in prisons do not even have a place to sleep. In 2011, the cause of this tragic incident by the Şanlıurfa Bar was highlighted and the Justice Department was invited to serve. It is stated in the report that the prison is under arrest and convicted, that its open and closed opinion period is inadequate, that its infrastructure conditions are not age-appropriate, and that many wards are made up of rooms that are not qualified to meet capacity. But neither the Gaziantep University, nor the Şanlıurfa Bar Association, which has issued warnings for Pozantı Prison, has signed a great shame on our country about human rights, not taking into account from the Ministry of Justice. The lengths of detention turned into punishment during the AKP administrations, the years of indictments not being released, the removal of active investigation and transparent trial, caused the prisons to flood, while prisoners were forced to live in inhumane conditions. These conditions are getting harder and harder, and prisons are turning into concentration camps. The allegations of mass death in Şanlıurfa Type E Prison are common. According to the Minister of Justice's statements, the incident that killed 13 people was a problem of capacity in prisons. There are 1,157 prisoners and prisoners in Şanlıurfa Type E Prison for 350 people. On the other hand, in a prison where people are collected far above their capacity, air conditioning is required to cool the wards, but there has been a riot due to the prison administration's negative response to this demand. Some claim that prisoners who were unable to find a bunk bed reacted to the administration by setting the beds on fire as a result of a ground fight. In prison, instead of a camera system and a fire alarm system, there were 13 people who were killed by primitive authorities who were late for fire-scenting and acting on fire. The death of 13 prisoners or prisoners in a prison under his administration points to the direct responsibility of the prison administration and then the Justice Department and the government. Evaluations of the complaints against Şanlıurfa Prison have been forwarded to the authorities for months, but no action has been taken, strengthens that view. We find it necessary to investigate this and several similar allegations, to establish a research commission within the TBM to identify those responsible for the loss of 13 people, and to assess structural problems in prisons, to determine solution proposals. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to resolve these problems with the unemployment and employment problem in our country and to determine solution-oriented efforts to combat unemployment, I respectfully submit the Constitution's obligation to open a parliamentary investigation under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Turkish Parliament. 18/06/2012 [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ardahan]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Gaziantep]] 6) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] 8) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 9) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Aydın]] 12) Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 19) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Ankara]] 21) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 22) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Mersin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 25) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] Unemployment refers to people who have a desire and ability to work but are unable to find a job that can provide regular and continuous income. The unemployment problem is at the top of Turkey's most important social problems. There are very few people in our country who work in their area of expertise, under the circumstances they want. As unemployment increases, in its own profession, the number of people working in its own area of expertise decreases. As long as there's too much unemployment, everyone is able to do whatever work they find, in the thought of having a job. Agriculture engineers work in graveyards, graduates of economic and administrative sciences are unable to find work, and teachers face unemployment because they cannot be assigned. This and many of our fellow professionals have to fight unemployment. The unemployment issue remains the most important topic on our country's agenda, its location, its importance, and its seriousness. With respect to the resolution of our country's unemployment problems and to the opening of a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Grand National Charter of Turkey for the purpose of fighting unemployment. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Equality of Women's Opportunities, the Public Economics Initiative and non-political party members of the European Union's Compliance Commissions also fall into 1 membership. It is 18 p.m. Monday (June 23, 2014) of non-political party members who want to run for these commissions. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis that I'll have you read and vote: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation of the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Cemil Cicek, will make an official visit to Mongolia to respond to the invitation of Mongolia Parliament President Zandaakhuu Enkhbold.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0031par0290	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit01spe0030par0291	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit to your votes, those who accept... those who refuse... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit02spe0030par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly. Now, I'm going to re-offer the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0030par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the second vote of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly, the decision was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the decision is enough and accepted. The Prime Minister's office has a paper on the extradition of the bill, so I'll have it read and voted on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Care: dated 17/1/2013 and B. 02. 0. KKG. 0. Our number 10/101-689-277. I would like to ask that the Court of State of Turkey, which has been submitted to you as President of the Republic of Turkey and the Union of Libya, be returned under Article 75, according to Article 75 of the National Assembly of Turkey, under the Act of the Law on Co-operation between the Government of Turkey and the Libyan Government, be approved. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The bill on the agenda has been reinstated to the government. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting Tuesday (17/06/2014), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. A proposal for the opening of a parliamentary investigation into the disease of subakut sclerozan panensefalit (SSPE) was proposed in the 10/479 section of the Turkish Parliament's agenda for General Assembly and Assembly Research. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, the first word belongs to Mr. Idris Baluken. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0032par0026	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our group's motion. I salute you all. For a long time, in fact, we've brought up a very important issue on the country's agenda to the Parliamentary General Assembly today. Subakut sclerozan panencephalitis is a very high mortality disease. Maybe what's more severe than that is that there's a social and psychologically severe bill for both patients and relatives. We've actually invited Congress to take office and responsibility for the SSPE disease before. We've tried to create a public sensibilities about the research proposals that we've given from time to time, but I'm afraid the House has not taken the initiative. Families, patients, and relatives continue to struggle with the problems they face. Dear lawmakers, this is a late complication of subacute sclerosis panencephalitis, measles disease. In particular, it's a disease in the brain with severe inflammation. This disease used to be known as a complication of the measles vaccine, but recent studies indicate that it is not a complication of the measles vaccine, it is a complication of the lack of immune system or the lack of a measles vaccine, despite the fact that it has been given an infection or the fact that it has been given a measles vaccine. There are some things here that are still unclear about whether the virus in the brain is reactive or that an autoimmune response has developed, and the science world is also working very hard on it. The picture of the disease is that it usually occurs after a few years of measles. There's a disease that's going towards loss of consciousness and coma, death, as well as behavioral disorder, speech disorder, walking disorder. The average life expectancy is usually six months to 12 months, so those who experience the disease often die within six months to a year. So we're dealing with a very bad situation, a terrible picture. Of course, when we look at our country, especially between 1995 and 2005, we see that this subacute sclerozan panensephalit table is making a serious pixel, and then there is a reduction in a certain number of cases with the inoculation program. What's interesting here is that in our country, especially in the East and Southeast Anatolian region, we are talking about the victims of nearly 300 (300) in our provinces such as Diyarbakir, Batman, Mardin and Siirt, more than 400 (400) and relatives of the sick and sick. But across the country, we have to say that the rates of this subacute sclerozan panencephalitis are higher than the countries that have established health policies, established healthcare systems. In the developed countries, these cases are generally seen in less than 0.5.3 per million in Turkey, 3.2 per million in the East and Southeast Anatolia, especially in the East and Southeast Anatolia, and are seen in the official information provided by the Ministry of Health. Now, it's obvious that these patients need the support and support of the social state of treatment that they already need during the duration of their illness, which is very heavy and costly. In particular, in addition to these patients, there are also severe psychological and social problems during the care of patients who have been bedridden for a long time, usually on a device. Thus, these families are united under the roof of an association as much as possible and are trying to make their voices heard here. So far, unfortunately, the shouts they raised from there, the demands they made from there, were not heard enough by the Parliament, not taken into account by Ankara. Today, these families also visited our group, attending our group meeting. In general, the demands the parents have made are: First of all, the discovery of the cause of this disease and the conduct of an investigation into this neglect if there is a negligence. In particular, a perception is found throughout the region: There are judgments that the wrong immunization programmes, or some outdated vaccines, were caused by this disease in 1998 and 2000. These judgments, of course, have to be taken into account. The Ministry of Health was supposed to have actually investigated some processes by now to clarify them. There is a scientific commission created by the Ministry of Health in 2005, and that commission filed a report. However, when we look at that report, there's talk of an increased population in the region, but it's not clear what the reasons are. More likely, there's a report that there's no stale vaccine, no expired vaccine. But we also think that there may be a possibility that there may have been some inadequacies in the cold chain that passed from the Ministry to the application of these vaccines, and that the vaccines that were not protected from the cold chain may not have developed a sufficient immune response to the measles virus, and we think that this is important, and we think that it should be investigated. Another request from the families: they've been demanding an appointment from the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Health for a long time. We consider the fact that patients who have had to deal with such severe patients still haven't been given an appointment by the Ministry of Health officials or the Minister of Health, that they haven't been heard as a result of their failure, and we think that the inadequacies in this matter need to be resolved as soon as possible. On the other hand, they think that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy for the solution to the social problems I'm talking about should create a special plan and program for these families, for sick and sick relatives. We agree with those demands, and I'm afraid we'd like to say that there's been no work done by this Ministry so far. Again, families recommend that a scientific project process be conducted within the framework of both their cases, their own patients, and in the coming period of treatment for patients. And we want to express from here that no study has ever been revealed. Most of these families are faced with poor families and very expensive treatment processes. Often, because they are unable to afford the costs of these treatment processes, many suffer psychological trauma, and the families themselves face a reality that requires spiritual support that is actually subject to a rehabilitation programme. So we are very concerned that the demands of our families to address all these problems that we're talking about should be taken into consideration, and that the Assembly will certainly form a research commission on this matter, and that this research commission will immediately begin its work and do the necessary briefings to the Assembly General Assembly. Especially in all three parties, we have friends who are physicians. These fellow physicians have often dealt with these patients in the field, listening to their relatives' problems. We are particularly concerned that in terms of the group's attitude, these fellow physicians should have their opinions taken and that a will should be put forward in the vote. When we come here, we give some numbers on how to deal with measles and measles, and we put up a good fight, there's no point in saying it. There's a big problem ahead of us, and there's a situation where the House has to get involved as quickly as possible. With these feelings, I call upon you all to support our motion, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0033par0040	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The first word against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal belongs to Mr. Kemalettin Aydın. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0034par0044	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I would like to express my opinion on the People's Democratic Party's motion to investigate measles and (SSPE) subacute sclerozan panencephalitis and take necessary precautions. As I express my views, we will, of course, participate in the emotional speech in the last sentences of my predecessor, of course, but, of course, in recent years, we need to discuss a little bit about where infectious diseases have come from, especially in Turkey. With the permission of our dear orator friend, I would like to share with you some of the confidence of a person working as a research officer at the Diyarbakır Medical School of Medicine from 90 to 92 that he knew about the region, not by ambulances, but by the confidence of the city where people carrying infectious diseases were transported to the streets of Diyarbakır district on April 24th, and not by trucks. As you pointed out, the subacute sclerozan panencephalitis is a disease that occurs in the brain with mortality over 50 percent, which is death in a period that has only lasted for 30 years after the disease was passed. In countries with high inoculations, modern, modern, advanced, and developed in recent years, as Turkey has received health care in countries that have been under one-in-a-million for many years, and in less developed countries and countries with low inoculations, the rate can reach 10 and 20 ± per million. When proposed that such diseases should be investigated in Turkey, as the treasurer indicated in his proposals, the subacute sclerozan panencephalitis, which is the problem, is directly under the influence of the virus itself, not due to the vaccine. Well, it's nice that it's rewritten once in a while. But on the other hand, we need to take responsibility for the defense against vaccines in the East and Southeast (East) or in areas where education is low, where we don't know how a association or an NGO defines it, and we don't find anything in the World Health Organization or other scientific data. I would have wished this motion would have been given like this, but then I would have said I would have joined at 100 percent. Yes, the cases of subacute sclerozan panensophalitis are around 100, 200, and 300, which happened eight to ten years ago. Let's do a study on how people who use this corrupt vaccine use it. So, if an NGO or a public manager says that you're broken and informs the community wrongly, if it reduces inoculation rates in Diyarbakir, Viranşehir, or Hakari, then it must be questioned and investigated. As we argue here that this vaccine will never be broken... in all inoculations that have begun in Turkey since the 70s... and today, the cold chain is one of the best-used countries in the world, and the World Health Organization is training in Turkey in this sense. Look, we're in a position to narrow it down to 90, 80. But when we say that there are a lot of cases of subacute sclerozan panencephalitis, we need to go back and look at the inoculation rates in those areas before 2002. In the southeastern part, especially in the '90s, when we're on the field, the vaccine campaign, then another definition will be used and will cripple the children. A policy such as that would prevent him from becoming a child. I'm a person who's experienced this in the field. When we go home, when we spend the government's money and the overtime to give the vaccine, when we go, with another propaganda that day, if you get this vaccine, you'll have no children, you'll be neutered, and the population of the region will be reduced. It was propaganda-style. Here's the result of those propagandaes, before 2002, before 98% in Hakkari, 8 per cent in Şırnak, 13 per cent in Viranşehir, 30 per cent; when we get close to 2002, we have to take on the risk of being 60 per cent in Batman, 54 per cent in Diyarbakır, 54% in Hakkari, and the responsibility of being a pancephalitis in Diyarbakut sclerozan with the direct effects of that virus. So, basically, when we come to this bench, we have to say, "O citizen of the Republic of Turkey, oh, parents, look, this vaccine is being implemented very correctly and properly within the rules of cold chains and practices in Turkey." In the international sense, vaccines passed through what we call the GMP, which are called good production techniques, are being re-examined in the Republic of Turkey, and such a thing is never allowed to go to the field. At that time, all of these vaccines that come into the field, so that our parents and children who laugh don't fade, please, get your vaccines done. While we need to talk about these sentences, we are, unfortunately, pushing the community to the wrong place, without knowing what various policies are for, where the vaccines are bad, where the vaccines are made for bad purpose, where the population is reduced. In recent years, 18.5 million of our children have been vaccinated by our health ministry's vaccine campaign, especially when measles cases are high, and measles cases have descended from 30,000 to zero. In recent years, there has been an increase in measles, especially with cases of European origin, but it is planned to drop to zero from 2015. Again, the triple vaccine that we paid our children for, which the state didn't meet before 2006, the vaccine that I had previously paid my own child as a physician, was free from the policies of our Ministry of Health -- which came in European standards -- starting in 2006. In vaccine policies, the error of single or double dose practices is also politicised. The immunization of the vaccine at nine months -- of course, the immunization of the vaccine at nine months -- was low -- has been inoculated since the 12 months and 1st grade. Of course, our Ministry of Health has also taken the necessary precautions regarding the presence of subacute sclerozan panencephalitis, or SSP cases in the region, depending on the low vaccine profile before 2002 and 1998. So all the measures that would come up with data from a four-month study, which was intended to be provided with a research proposal, have been taken. What is this? In 2005, the Scientific Council was established, and in accordance with the board's recommendations, where the cases were concentrated, children's neurology, children's infections, children's disease specialists, adults' disease specialists and public health experts began to serve in these areas, and the notification was made mandatory by 2005. Again, in 1995, these cases were seen in Şanliurfa Viranşehir, because if we go back six years before 1995, we can easily say the low rate of vaccines in the 1980s, and we can now say that none of our children born after 2007 have reported cases of subacute sclerozan panencephalitis. And this shows, of course, that there's a possibility that, as the year goes on, maybe it'll come out, but with the 96, 97, 98 percent inoculations that have been reached since 2007, we can say that this inoculation has a significant amount of accurate results, and the rate of exposure to the wild virus has dropped. Again, especially in diagnosis and treatments, we can say that everything has been met in health care care notices. Yes, I also care that our brothers, some of whom are admissible or disabled, are also covered by family and social policies, and I care that if a case like this comes up, the family has a problem here, it has to be taken to the hospital, or taken to the hospital, or taken care of at home, whatever kind of shortcomings are necessary to be evaluated and applied at the ministry level. My dear friends, this motion for research has been implemented in the past year by our Ministry of Health and our government, and there is no under 90 per cent inoculation in any province of the Republic of Turkey. At the end of my words, we wish that parents would obey the inoculations, that our smiling faces would not fade, that we would not agree with the requirement of this motion. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0035par0059	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0036par0060	Mr. President, during his oratory speech, Mr. President spoke of certain policies that interfered with this inoculation program...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0035par0061	Now, I'm going to promise you that even though I listened carefully to what the two of you were talking about, I don't understand anything, and I don't think anyone else did, you spoke to two doctors. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0036par0063	Mr. President, we're trying to talk as far as anyone can understand, but, of course, in medicine, it may not always be possible. Mr. orator, during his speech here, he specifically mentioned some policies that interfered with the inoculation program, and he made a speech that implied that our party had such a policy. We consider it a great misfortune. Such a policy has never been established by the political tradition of our party as its successor. And especially with people like us who practice medicine like this, who rely so much on science, we're deeply offended by the fact that you're making this accusation. In fact, if you had listened carefully to my speech, during my talk, we had stated that there was a judgment in the region that the stale vaccine or the wrong vaccine had been taken, that we didn't find it right, that there might have been an inoculation that did not provide adequate immunity to the cold vaccine chain at the time, and that it was also a case that needed to be examined. There's no way we can get a different message out of here. We, of course, want to express that the healthy conduct of all inoculation programmes is an important issue for all civil society and political parties to support. If there's a counter campaign you're talking about, it's still the Department of Health and the Social Government's job to cover this opposition campaign. So you won't have children, and the children will be barren. If there is a campaign on it, it would have to be the work of the Ministry and the existing governments, and it would have to be put in the way. So we think it's important that all of this be investigated. And we didn't draw a frame just because the cases showed up. So we've also said that the House needs to take an initiative on the problems that these families have experienced socially, socially, economically, psychologically. For all these reasons, we express that we are again asking for support in this group's proposal. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0037par0069	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Another fellow doctor is Mr. Mehmet Candy in favor of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0038par0073	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party regarding the group proposal of the People's Democratic Party. I salute you all. I wish you all a healthy, long life. I also congratulate Mr. Idris Bauken for his speech and for his prediction. He said: "Now the representatives of the Justice and Development Party will come out, and they will tell you how successful they are with vaccine, how well they are with health policies, and how well they have done. I thank you for this speech. Your vision was correct. Dear friends, Sabukat Sklerozan Panensephalitt is a result, a result. Why a result? Well, you know, you could be short on vaccines, vaccines could be stale, disease could be different, it could be a case you missed. In any case, Sabukat Sklerozan Panensefalith is a fact, and there are families struggling with it, and there are people whose children are infected with it, who are interested in it, and you have to understand them very well, and you have to do some very serious work on their problems. The opposition is that we often talk here, we tell you, Mr. Ministry of Health officials have created an army of physicians who only write prescriptions in Turkey. We call it Turkey. And we underline that fact. An army of physicians wrote 342 million prescriptions a year. So, what are we doing in foster care, where are we? Mr. Justice and Development Party spokesman, my doctor friend, says: "There was a money vaccine in Turkey before, and now the vaccines are free." There's already no third world country in the world where the vaccine is sold for money, and there's nothing to brag about, and that's what a state should do, but if you're still writing 342 million prescriptions, you're still increasing chronic diseases in this country, and people are suffering because of chronic diseases; diabetes, chronicly observative lung disease in this country, we call asthma, even 30 years ago, and even if you've brought the tuberculosis back on the agenda, and if you've brought back to the border, you've brought back our children to the border today, we've got a vaccine in this country. I mean, the opposition doesn't say everything to criticize you. We have children, we have grandchildren, they're not supposed to be sick, we have to raise a healthy generation in this country, and you have to fight for it, and it's our duty to all of us. So I wish you wouldn't just take criticism here as political criticism, and I do. Dear friends, we go out here politically speaking from time to time, but what we know best is medicine. We bring up the lack of physicians, the needs to be done from time to time. In this assembly, I promised myself and my fellow physicians: "We will do everything we can to help raise the doctors and health problems in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we stand by it. I submitted a question to the Ministry of Health, and I said, "What are the number of cases of measles from February 2012 to today? How many Syrian asylum seekers have had measles and tuberculosis in the last year? How many Syrians have been given a measles shot so far? As we were asking, we said, "I've spoken a lot on this bench: "If you can't maintain security at the gate, at the border, if you can't control people's entrances and exits, from acts of terrorism to smuggling, from human trafficking to even threatening your health, you'll also bring up the agenda." Right now, there's no security along our Syrian border. And the government in Syria can't vaccinate its citizens because there's a conflict there, there's a terrorist environment, there's bombs going off, it's not a country that's being given very serious health care; we're also following it from the press, and we're seeing it from the press. Syrian refugees have entered Turkey, there are five times the number of Syrian citizens left in the records of AFAD. Unfortunately, when these children entered from Syria, our Ministry of Health couldn't give them vaccines, couldn't reach them, didn't know which house they lived in, didn't know how they lived, didn't know what they did, didn't know what they did. As a member of Gaziantep, there are 400,000 Syrian refugees in Gaziantep, my friends. You will give health care to 400,000 Syrian refugees, you will bring clean water, you will take green space, you will give food and drink, you will solve all your problems. Did we figure it out? No, we didn't. After what escaped this audit, after there were no controls, aside from the terrorist incidents, I will not be involved in that political incident now -- them -- but unfortunately, in Turkey, the disease also haunted them. The answer to the question I'm asking is here. It says: There are 6,731 cases of measles reported from 67 provinces as of the history of ▪8/7/2013. It also distributed according to the provinces. Our orator friend just said, "Here, that's the information the Ministry of Health gave you, and that information is not true. He's talking about a disease from Europe. Dear friends, Şanliurfa and Gaziantep, not on the border with Europe, but in the Southeast Anatolian region and the Syrian refugee region, where there is no border security, because the gate, the border is a turning point, we couldn't give people enough health care, we couldn't vaccinate them, we didn't know where they were sitting, we didn't know what they were doing. Thus, in these cities, measles has increased. So, what happens after that? Dear friends, the case of measles, this is what we've just talked about, what we call a subakut sclerozan panensefalit, and may God not give it to anyone, a sign of serious illness. Well, did the Health Department take any precautions on that? We've dealt with him very seriously, and we've given him a very serious warning. Look, these people don't get vaccinated in Syria, they come in through that door, unfortunately they don't have control, they don't know the governorship, we don't know most of them, we don't know most of them, we live in the same building, we share the same streets, we even start giving girls, but unfortunately we haven't been able to vaccinate these people's children very seriously, and as a result of that, we said, measles has started to increase in these areas. Dear friends, please take these warnings seriously, these warnings are not just what we say in order to criticize political power, just to gain political gain. We live with these facts. I've told Gaziantep more about the economic, political, social damage he's done to Gaziantep than this chair. We've always said how loaded vehicles go and go, what's in them when they're captured, who's taking them, who's delivering them, and where they've been blown up, but we've always talked about it, but it's a more serious business. We imported disease from outside our country. And this disease that we import is going to cause our children to be crippled in the future, and our children to be very seriously away from society, and their parents' psychology, and their families to have very serious problems in dealing with this disease. Dear friends, this disease, called European origin, has nothing to do with Europe. The ministry says, sir, it's from Europe because it's seen in Istanbul. The fact that he was seen in Istanbul is not from Europe, my friends. There are 200,000 Syrians in Istanbul, and there are 150,000 Syrians in İzmir, and there are nearly 2.5 million Syrians in Turkey. The data of AFAD (AFAD) is 1,200,000 already, over which there are Syrians. This shows that Syrian citizens do not have sufficient health care, cannot be inspected, cannot be controlled. This is a serious failure in health. Again, the Ministry of Health says to our friend at a family health centre in Adana: "Infect him where you catch him." Well, easy, let's vaccinate him where we catch him. The fellow physicians also say that there is a lack of vaccine, and we can't get enough vaccine. Another problem today is these precious friends. I wish our country could make vaccines, too, and our country could stop producing airplanes and cars and produce the most basic vaccine we need, and we could vaccinate these kids, so we wouldn't have to wait at another country's door today. In the future life where our children are going to have very serious problems, I'm in favor of setting up a research commission to do the necessary work on them. It has to be investigated thoroughly, and it has to be done in a very serious way. I wish you all a healthy and happy long life.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0039par0090	Thank you, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0040par0091	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0039par0092	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0040par0093	He declared that the words I said were not true, that they were...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0041par0094	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0039par0095	How excellent that you will continue one after another. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0042par0097	Dear President, my fellow lawmakers, two of our fellow physicians, but if we say 1990 and 2014, I'm a person who's spent the rest of my life investigating how a virus is transmitted. Şanlıurfa and Gaziantep are also known by my son, who went to the 1st grade at the age of seven, not in Europe. I don't mean that in a polemic sense here, but in Turkey, after 2005, all of the sushi is European-rooted. It doesn't have to be on the edge of the European continent. Of course, it can be seen in China or Crimean Congo Kayseri, such as this virus, and it also travels in Turkey. I felt a need to fix it for him. Another is, perhaps sentences can be perceived differently in terms of people's perception. I didn't say any political party had such a policy. It's up to you and me to repeat my same sentence -- to speak the truth with a consensus in order to prevent this kind of misinformation in the southeast or in low education environments, not to mention the fact that HDP is running such a campaign in the southeast.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0043par0099	We say we set up a commission.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0042par0100	When I worked, there was such a campaign in the southeast, and there was no HDP at the time. In order to prevent these campaigns, I said it was necessary for you, me and your fellow physicians at other political parties to properly inform the community in the right words. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0044par0102	Mr. Oz, I promise you one minute.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0045par0103	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0044par0104	Now, wait a second... one at a time... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0046par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. As a matter of fact, of course, I wanted to make a statement to inform the House. I just want everyone to know that our citizens are in a great deal of trouble at the point of rehabilitation of neurological and myopathy diseases that we see in society. There are a lot of applications for us, especially by organizations founded by this one. They can't do rehab for ALS, for example. I'm saying that both the Social Security Institution has to miss its payments and that Turkey needs rehab centers, and that Turkey lacks a great deal at the point of rehab in Turkey, which was born or later caused by accidents, and that it's in great zeal to fix it, and that we need to be. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0047par0109	Mr. Sugar, it's a beautiful... so he never picked on anyone.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0048par0110	No, no, not teasing. I'll make a correction.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0047par0111	Then, from your place, please.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0048par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Now it was the Ministry of Health, who said it was of European origin, the measles virus. But the most common cities are Gaziantep and Şanlıurfa. In Gaziantep and Şanlıurfa, as I described it, the lack of border security and the presence of Syrian refugees are very intense. So there's no point in saying it's of European origin because there's no case of measles in Europe either, by the way. There's no increased situation there either. There is no abnormal increase in measles, but Turkey has. He explained it to our friend, but it's not true either. Because it's not of European origin, its origin is completely uncontrollable, unsupervised Syrian gate.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0047par0114	Yeah. Mr. Mountainoglu, come in. No more doctors coming in, please...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0049par0117	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, now, sir, this measles is a viral infection. The measles, of course, could have complications. But when it comes to immunization, I don't really think it's a big success as an AK PARTI MP, but as a physician and a citizen, giving and applying the measles vaccine for free in the entire dorm. You can't rule that out. It is truly a great service to the community that the measles vaccine, hepatitis B, hepatitis A, is given free of charge. And when it comes to other encephalitis, physicians know very well that most viral infections are usually at risk for encephalitis, just like this measles.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0047par0119	The last word against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is Mr. Ismail Tamer of Kayseri. Mr. Ismail, it's just that I'm so confused, we're screwed if I have grandchildren. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0050par0123	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against you on behalf of myself regarding the group proposal of the People's Democratic Party. I salute the grand jury. First of all, I'd like to start by highlighting that subacute sclerosis is one of the late complications of panencephalitis measles. In any patient with measles -- my dear friends, my fellow doctors, have expressed it before me -- it is possible to encounter subacute sclerozan panencephalitis within a period of five, six, or twenty-nine, or thirty years. However, in the part about the vaccine -- dear Türkan Hajji mentioned it -- there is also the risk of encephalitis behind every viral disease. So I'd like to point out that the subacute sclerozan panencephalitis appears as a result of measles, or that it may be wrong to express that the vaccination of measles has arisen. Our ministry has established an Immunity Advisory Board in our country as well as the value of diseases in vaccine practice. This board is part of the predictions of the World Health Organization. In 1998, there were two doses of vaccines in first class, especially in the Eastern Anatolian region. When we think about it, we all know that vaccines made before 2002 were made against seven allergies, but today, especially after our government, our Ministry of Health has done important work, especially 13 antigen vaccines have been administered, a fact. Of course, after that, we all know that the cold chain is very important, that the problems with vaccines reaching patients are much greater than before 2002. I remember years ago, vaccine campaigns have been going on for thirty years in our country, but I also want to say that the most effective period is one of the important works of the Ministry of Health, which began in 2004 and was established in 2008. Of course, we don't accept that offer. We don't accept for this: the relationship between the measles inoculation of the Ministry of Health and the subacute sclerosis is more common in some areas, which our friends have indicated. A scientific commission was established in 2005. This commission received children's neurology, children's infections, children's health, adult infections and public health specialists. As a result of the work done by these, a report was drawn up. According to this report -- I'll make it brief, I'll say -- one: Subakut sclerozan panensophalitis appears to be 2.7 times higher in men than in women. All vaccines under the immunization program have had quality checks done by the Ministry of Health. The user was allowed to carry the cold chain properly. In our country, measles vaccine schemes, which have been implemented in the past and are still being implemented, have been tried to be done in the way the World Health Organization sees fit. Again, it has been revealed more scientifically that the disease -- not the measles vaccine -- is a complication of measles. The measles virus is held responsible. Again, the prevalence of this disease is very different from similar countries, given the rate of vaccination in our country. Although it was seen much more before 2005, it was seen at a lower level after 2005. It is common in Southeast Anatolia, northern Anatolia, and central Anatolia. Again, one of the main reasons for this is the low rate of vaccination, dear friends, otherwise it's not about vaccine, it's not about vaccine disorder, it's not an event, and I want to make it very clear. In our country, again, I would like to rephrase that the cases of this disease can also occur after the cases of measles, which occurred during the low period of public immunity from vaccination rates and vaccines. Again, there is a significant finding that the cities where the disease has been more frequent have had low levels of measles vaccines or have also taken migrations, which we have already given an example of, but today's measles vaccine has been removed, particularly in 2004, and in 2008, the Ministry of Health is campaigning very successfully, as well as possible, and vaccine campaigns continue again. Also, since 2010, the subacute sclerozan panensephalit cases have been shown to have a significant decrease, and it has been determined by this Council that since 2005, the rate of measles inoculations has been increasing. Our ministry has made scientific advances in the new treatment approaches of this disease, especially in the interest of the World Health Organization, including the Hacettepe University, which has activated education research hospitals and has begun to work in this context. Again, our ministry also took into account the demands of the organisations concerned about meeting the needs of the cases, and studies were carried out, and we started giving drugs free of charge at the Social Security Agency. Again, an important drug, a drug that's being made about it, is taking and handing out this drug, which is an inosiplex, for free. So, my dear friends, we all know that we can't accept the way the People's Democratic Party has accused, especially because we all know that the place of protective medicine in Turkey -- my dear doctor friends -- spoke ahead of me. When I was in office, when I was in the Health Department at Artvin, we started the vaccine campaign at the time, when we could only bring the campaign rates -- I remember again -- to 50 percent. In some counties, this was raised to 50 percent, to 70, but I want to stress that the health ministers before us -- we have to thank them for their work, but they're getting closer, but this immune rate is the most effective in our government's time. Because it's obvious that we've already done some work in the cold chain. In short, I can express that there is nothing wrong with this disease, especially with the irregularity of vaccines in the cold chain, or with the delivery of tainted vaccines to the East, and I express that I am opposed to this motion. My regards and greetings to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0051par0138	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0052par0140	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit03spe0051par0141	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Özgundüz, Mr. Candy, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Özkoç, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Özkurk, Mr. Karman, Mr. Sürmen, Mr. Silver, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Sun Sun, Mr. Special, Mr. Toptaş. I'll give you two minutes, start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0051par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Y O L A M A The polls held before the vote of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group were not enough. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the advisory council on Tuesday (June 17, 2014), there is no consensus among political party groups, so I would like to ask that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. The situation of our citizens who were taken hostage, including the recent developments in Iraq (June 17, 2014) and the impact of Turkey's ISIS threat on our border and on our Turkish brothers, has been proposed to open a general meeting on Tuesday (June 17/06/2014) by reading the General Assembly of İzmir MP Oktay Vural and MP of the MP of the MP and Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu. In favour of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, the first statement belongs to Ankara MP Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0053par0020	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal for developments in Iraq. I salute the High Council. Now, this is something that, as you know, should have been discussed here last week. So there's been an effort since last week's consulate raid at Mosul and the arrival of 49 of our citizens -- three of whom are infants -- in the political power: let's not talk about it, let's not talk about it now, it's critical, let's not talk about it. But, dear friends, at the point where we're here today, we've come to a place where the international media talks, follows, everyone talks about it, the media in Turkey talks, and only one thing happens when it's not discussed, and the only place that doesn't evaluate what's going on is under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. So outside of this House, everyone's talking, everyone's having an opinion, everyone's having an affair, even the demands of political power in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, initiatives, with these...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0054par0023	Mr. President, we're bringing up an important issue, which is Turkey's agenda. If the ministers would listen to such an issue instead of standing up to them, I mean, at least...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0055par0024	You're right.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0054par0025	That's not gonna happen. That's not gonna be disrespectful.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0056par0026	Yes, Mr. Turkesh, please.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0057par0027	Yes, we have now experienced this in other matters, in Cyprus, so the European Court of Human Rights in this regard has brought Turkey to punishment for these missing persons. Let's talk. Aman this is on the agenda today, then let's do this. Dear friends, very valuable MPs, what are we going to talk about if we don't talk about Turkey's vital, sensitive, national issues here? Now, don't write it, it's too dangerous. Don't write it, sir, we're in a critical phase, we'll save people, hostages at any moment. But the State Department's official says he's not even a hostage.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0058par0029	That's all the ministers are interested in, they're talking there.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0057par0030	Well, what is it, dear friends? 31 special operatives, 1 Consuls, 1 members of the State Department, other fellow officers, 49 people, families, have completed their 7th day in ISIS's hands, leaving a week behind. What are they, not hostages? Now, the State Department, in the first place, in the last week, let's talk about this. They said, "Mr. Foreign Minister will inform political parties." Well, let's wait, let's get the information. Why are we avoiding it? Do they want a ransom? No. No. No. Do they have an application for you? No. Now, there are some incidents in Iraq, some developments. Now, if we don't understand what these developments are, if we don't look at this properly, if we can't describe it properly, then we're simplifying what's going on there, and what we think is simple is that things grow, they become mountains, they become avalanches. Now, what should we look at as we evaluate the situation in Iraq, dear friends, I'd like to point out. Once, on April 30, 2014, parliamentary elections were held in Iraq. What are the consequences of these choices, what has happened, what has happened in these outcomes? The sects have become more prominent, but a more divided structure has emerged, as well as the cults have appeared more prominently. Another thing is, the current situation in Iraq is that the United States of America's powers are the first election after being officially withdrawn from Iraq. This needs to be properly assessed. If we can't evaluate them, if we can't see the effects, if we can't see the consequences, we can't properly analyze them. The news is very simple: ISIS, Iraq, Damascus, the Islamic State of Islam, its organization. You can't say terror. So why did an organization that wasn't a terrorist organization detain your consulate and with it 48 people, plus your driver, your citizen? What in God's name is this, not a terrorist organization? Doesn't a minister feel the need to come here and explain this? Is that a thing? Oh, another point is that the situation of oil here needs to be discussed. What are the problems with oil from northern Iraq, covered with names, adjectives? Is there a case, an investigation, in the international arena, about the oil you're trying to buy and sell? These need to be discussed, and they need to be understood. There's a historical perspective on what happened in Iraq, dear friends. In 1915, there is a Sykes-Picot Agreement between France and England that lasts a year. Is it coincidental that this took place in the 100th year, and that it took place in the 100th year, according to the 21st century of Iraq, which was divided there a hundred years ago, according to the ruling forces of the 21st century? And in light of these, what is ISIS? If it's not a terrorist organization, then when you say "Iraq-Sham," the citizen on the street thinks it's an organization that was inspired by Damascus, which was created by the confusion in Syria, Syria. Dear friends, very valuable MPs; this is the Iraqi-Levant Islamic State. Levant covers the entire geography from the Crusades to this side. It's very important. I mean, it's not from Syria. And behind this organization, I mean, here, pick up Zawahiri from there, come here, connect it to Baghdad, there are more parts of this organization that don't appear in the ground. I personally doubt that the people involved in this matter, including the Secretary of State, have seen and understood and acted accordingly; I have concerns. Of course, the stance of Turkey against ISIS, of political power, is remarkable. In Spain, the Spanish state has operated on people who have gathered men and brought warriors there, and has taken 7-8 people into custody. In today's newspapers, in Turkey, in Istanbul, they say they have offices, but let's not hurt them, they're even avoiding words. They can't be touched with their approach.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0059par0040	Now, wait a minute, I'm just giving it to the other speakers today. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0057par0042	Yes, well, thank you. Now, of course, at the end of all this, we have family there. The Iraqi Turkmen are obviously in a very dire situation. It has nothing to do with the government, the political power, any effort or effort. When we saw each other last week, when asked if they had any thoughts about possible migration, we had that same concern, but we didn't see anything serious. But this week the migration began. Of course, the time is not long enough to talk about Iraq, but finally, very valuable MPs, if you can't keep your flag within the borders of your own country, you will never be able to claim the citizens outside your borders. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0060par0047	Thank you, Mr. Turkesh. Mr. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0061par0050	Thank you. Mr. President, after the incident in Mosul, on the same day, as the People's Democratic Party, we asked for a general meeting in parliament on 11 June 2014. It's really important. Turkey is deeply interested in the security of our borders, the developments in the Middle East, the developments in Syria. We've actually said that since the civil war started in Syria, we've told many times here: border crossings, accommodation from Ceylanınar to Syria, from Syria, from the land to the north, where the elements are supported under the name Al Qaeda, Al Nusra, ISIS or the Free Syrian Army, and then they're held there for the purpose of attacking the Rojava Kurds, which is very dangerous, both for Syria, for the right to determine their own fate, for Turkey and for Turkey's internal peace. In fact, the other day, we were very clear here by the government -- which was not denied -- by the government -- which is called "Mucahit Al Nusra" (also called "Mücahit Al Nusra") -- by the government's governors of the government -- and from the diet to the governors of the government -- to be helped in the matter of accommodation, transition, and so on and so forth -- and look, I'll have your attention. We've warned here what a disaster this will bring, how these uncontrollable forces will be armed, how they'll be meeting with their weapons at five-star hotels in Antalya, the trucks, etc, etc, and so on, the massacres of children in Rojava, the Armenian settlements, the Turkish people -- the construction of Suleyman Shah -- and then the embassy building in Somalia. Now, the government didn't know that, the government knew all that. A million Syrian refugees scattered all over Turkey, from Istanbul to İzmir, from İzmir to Edirne, from Ankara to the heart of Ankara, we've seen people whose status is unknown, fighting with the neighborhood, or in the disaster of crime or poverty. We've had a picture of this incident over Syria here for three years. However, when Mosul endured, ISIS entered the consulate, put down the flag, detained the consulate officials and 32 of our drivers, they began to wake up again, people began to realize the danger. You can put up a flag here, folks, it's easy, and it's easy to protect the flag here. It's important to protect the flag where it's your land; and secondly, it's right to provoke and remove the provocators and the forces behind it that climb the poles with gloves in the heat of 35 degrees. We have made it clear here that in Tuzhurmatou, when two Kurdish brigades were protecting the Turkmen and the army was withdrawing from Kerkuk, again, the Kurds were called our soy brothers, as well as the Kurds' descendants are in this Parliament, and the Turks have a common interest. If we take over a democratic government there, in Iraq, with those kinds of organizations, then ISIS has placed El Nusra on the government's list of terrorist organizations a month ago, Turkey will not be a neighbour. Turkey has a choice. We've lived with Kurds for a thousand years. He says, "Do you want to live strategically together for a thousand more years with the Kurds in Syria, Turkey, Iraq, even Iran? Which is shown by good faith relations, where there are democratic Kurdish governments, there are 8 Turkishmen parliamentarians in the Erbil Parliament, there are 1 ministries, of course, where our friends from three parties have not been able to go one day and talk to the Turkishmen of the Erbil Parliament, the ministers, and what are you doing here? Here, in every three cantons of the Kurdish people, in Afrin, in Kobani, in Ciraire, they were armed from seven to seventy, and in this killing they were able to defend themselves, their country, and their honor, by exposing themselves to the forces that did not limit their killing in the name of Islam. Here, those elements are in motion, they've gone from many countries, and there's a reality in Musul, where they go to Musul, friends: If, in the north, there is three parts of Iraq, the Kurdish regional administration, Musul and around Ninova province, the Sunnis and the Shiis in the south; if you don't see this reality, Turkey does not see it as a neighbouring state in the construction of a democratic government that fits its reality; as of now Turkey has opened up revenues from 10 billion lira Habur Gate, up to Mersin. Today is the fifth day. It's day five, consulate officials are hostages; you're looking at diplomacy, hostage diplomacy, exchange diplomacy, ransom diplomacy. What kind of foreign affairs has that kind of diplomacy, guys? While the Middle East is reshaping, when Europe is in crisis and facing China, Russia, Iran, the balance of mutual power is being played, while Syria enters its third, fourth year, Turkey's establishment of its foreign policy on religion and ideology is never an acceptable foreign policy. Now, can you imagine, in the Middle East, there are some Ottomans; you've given Mosul and Kerkuk (500 pounds), and then you'll come here and you'll talk: How do we protect the rights of the Turks and the Kurdish people and the Arabs who live there? If that's what our history bond requires, what can we do together? But you can't explain these events without the account of the money transfer from Qatar, Saudi, and Saudi. Of course, in Mosul, all of a sudden, overnight, the entire army surrenders, abandons weapons, abandons airports, releases tanks, cannons, and leaves. Do you think it fits your logic that 70,000 members of the army surrendered to 5,000 ISIS members? No, there's no surrender, there's a consult. After Saddam was destroyed, the Shiites came to rule, and the Maliki administration was not able to manage Iraq properly, they were quarrelling with the Kurds, they were quarrelling with the Sunnis, they couldn't settle the order even though the elections had been held. Right now, either Iraq will be divided into three groups, as Kurds, Sunnis and Shias -- this is an option -- will continue with the form of federation management -- or they will be divided into separate states. This is extremely vital when there is no solution, and our citizens, our relatives, our relatives, our people, our friends, will have problems.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0062par0061	I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0061par0063	Now, we want to warn the government about 45 million Kurdish people here in the Middle East. We have a general meeting motion. We waited for it to come in order. Look, today, Ankara 9. The High Criminal Court has ruled a gag order against the hostages. We're all sensitive about it. We've been sensitive to everyone. Even though we were the first party to present the general debate motion, we cared about the Secretary of State's meeting, his knowledge, but on the 5th day... let's discuss it. Let the Secretary of State come in, let Parliament talk about it, if you'd like an open session, closed session, but we have to talk about it. We don't let anyone else talk about it, and the government's choice is: either 45 million Kurdish people will be your neighbors in the Middle East, and you will be with them for a strategic thousand years or ISIS. We say you guys don't have a choice. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0063par0067	Thank you. İstanbul MP Osman Taney Kuruturk in favour of the National Movement Party Group's proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0064par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we have a new general debate motion. You see, in favor of those who speak for the opposition, the one who speaks against them, says, "Let's open it up, let's discuss it, let's discuss it." There's no way we can avoid discussing it.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0065par0073	We talked about it because we gave it to him, yes.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0064par0074	Look, the Foreign Minister said: I'll go around the leaders, I'll inform the leaders. If we start a discussion about it, there might be a challenge. The Secretary of State doesn't call it a hostage. Somehow, he says he's a guest, or whatever he's saying.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0066par0075	Don't hold him.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0064par0076	We don't agree with that at all because we've gone beyond the difficulty of them. Look, it's been five days, we're in day six. With the families of an entire consulate, with their families, with their children, even with the cat dog, taken outside the consulate building, still Vice Minister, Minister, we don't consider it a hostage, he says. What are you looking at? Did they go to the evening sit-down or did they go on a picnic? Is that even possible? They took them, they tied them up, they took them away. Among them... they began to use the High Consulate of the Republic of Turkey, which they had served with for other purposes. They lowered the flag on the flagpole over the land of the Republic of Turkey. After seeing all this, we look at it as a hostage, and we don't look at it like it's harmful, it's not harmful, it's not acceptable. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey shouldn't be with so few people at such an important meeting. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey must be full here and the Foreign Minister must come, who are they meeting, what are they meeting, diplomatic effort... what diplomatic effort? Are there diplomatic efforts with terrorism? Is terrorism and diplomacy compatible? We're going to do it in a diplomatic way. There's no diplomatic way. But it seems that they've been negotiated, that they've been negotiated. You have to tell me who you're doing it with, because I'm not so sure you know who you're doing it with. Former Iraqi Vice President Tariq Hashimi, who has settled in Ankara, makes statements and so forth, seems to be involved. How much does Tariq Hashimi (Tariq) weigh in Iraq? I need the Secretary of State to come and tell it here. If Tariq Hashimi had a strong relationship with tribes and so on, he wouldn't be here. Like Abraham Al Duri, the number two of Saddam would have been in his hometown in the 10th year of the operation. You're putting our people in danger by trying to do wrong with the wrong men.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0067par0077	What do you suggest?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0064par0078	The consulate's staff, drivers, thermal power plants staff, people we don't know yet, now we've added Turkmen. Yesterday a Turkmen delegation visited the deputy leader of the Republican People's Party group at his office, and then met with us. They say the Turkmen have now left Telafer. They are not allowed in the town of Sincar near Telafer on the grounds that the Turks are outnumbered and are at risk of security. In the open land, below 50 degrees of heat, and at every moment from Telafer, they turn to them, and wait for those who will come to eat the sword, the machete, the liver, and the heart. What is Turkey doing about them? Now, the Foreign Ministry -- if it talks about entering into diplomatic effort -- with the Iraqi government, the Kurdistan Regional Government, other Sunni tribes, other Shiite tribes, the Turkmen Front, the Sunni Turkmen, the Shii Turkmen, all of them -- have to concentrate on the various layers of the Iraqi community in some way. And we need the Minister to come down here and share this with us about whether he's doing this or not. We have experienced friends in our midst. Now, of course, Turkey's first priority is to save its people. We, the Republican People's Party, are prepared to make every contribution we can to save their lives, our expertise, our contacts, our contact points of contact, but we are willing to help with that, but this means that we will ignore the government's heavy responsibility in this matter. The government's attempt to change regimes in Syria has failed, everyone knows that, but the world's armed organization has been brought there to force its efforts to change regimes. Those organizations also fed on weapons. Now these weapons have returned to us, and these weapons have now led to what we feared most as Turkey from the beginning in Iraq. As Turkey, as a guarantee for all members of the Republic of Turkey, we preferred to keep Iraq as a whole. Unlike the fact that Iraq was kept whole, the Shiites went into a separate formation, the Kurds went into a separate formation, the Sunnis went into a separate formation. The Shiites, the Kurds, have the means to themselves as a natural resource, as a management experience, but since the Sunnis have never had such an opportunity, Turkey has always said when this topic came up in the international field: If such a phenomenon were to be discovered, if such a phenomenon were to be divided into three divisions, then the Sunni, the crushed part of Iraq could also become a haven for terror organizations; unfortunately so it has been, and so has been. What's Turkey doing about it, guys? To save our people... and we said: our first priority... and, if there's anything that we're willing to do to help, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I'm sure, everyone's ready to do it, but that's not the end of it. After he rescues and takes our people, we need to see what happens in that area, move the international community somehow. Turkey needs to move the international community, but while it moves, Iraq needs to be able to contact all the layers of society. Does he or doesn't he, why don't we come and see him here? The general call came in from several parties, and we had a general request for a meeting, but we withdrew it to help rescue the hostages. But the fact that we pulled this doesn't mean we don't want this to be discussed here, we have to discuss it here. The Secretary of State needs to come in here with his entire staff to brief him, see who he's seeing, see what he's seeing, and here's what everyone else can do, at least make the right contribution from this podium. Now, Turkey doesn't have that kind of situation very often. This is a case of serious inconsistencies. We're probably entitled to know what the plans for evacuation are for both the Baghdad Embassy and the Aleppo consulate.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0068par0082	The Basra consulate has now been evacuated.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0064par0083	Here, it needs to be done, lots of it needs to be done long ago. Once families have to be taken out, at first.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0069par0084	It's not special news, it's news from the press. Mr. Hasip didn't hear from him there, so it's a press report.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0064par0085	Well, it's done in humility. Not with this sort of thing, but with humility, with my hearing, it happened, it happened, not with the news of the newspaper, but with the Secretary of State coming here every day to give us information. The Foreign Minister, yes, has a lot of work, but one of the Foreign Minister's jobs is to inform the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to benefit from the information department of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. It's done by getting through it, going through some analysis, thinking about things, not by making comments that aren't really going to work for anyone right now and at this point, but by giving concrete information and getting concrete information. I'm afraid this is getting worse, folks. I'm not just talking about hostages, but Iraq's condition is worsening, and the region's condition is worsening. Turkey was successful in playing the role of stability, stability, because the region was stable during Turkey's stabilisation. Turkey also broke that stability by supporting sectarian policies or sectarian policies elsewhere. Everyone needs common sense to get out of this as soon as possible. The common mind is the mind of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in democratic parliamentary regimes. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey now thinks it's time for the government to appeal before it's too late. If this is not done at once, the responsibility for all the events that will take place the day after tomorrow will be much, much greater than today. The government will take a huge responsibility not only in Turkey's mail, but also in public. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0070par0088	Thank you, Mr. Korutk.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0071par0089	Mr. President, do you see those people sitting during the burglars? Look, they've turned their backs on Congress.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0070par0090	Sir...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0071par0091	Do you see the people sitting during the burglars? They've turned their backs on the House.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0070par0092	Mr. Young, they're all people with criminal licenses, dear.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0071par0093	But warn me, sir, I mean, they've turned their backs on Congress.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0072par0094	Mr. President, it's just that he said...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0070par0095	Okay, I mean, I feel like class president right now, so don't!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0071par0096	But I mean, everyone...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0070par0097	What can we do? I mean, they're all brain-dead friends with criminal licenses.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0071par0099	I mean, you need to check his criminal license.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0070par0100	İstanbul MP Volcano Bozır is against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0073par0103	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group against the National Movement Party's proposal to open a general discussion on developments in Iraq. I salute the High Council. Iraq has been a complete drama for the last ten days. After the 2013 occupation and the 2007-08 civil war, the country faces the biggest crisis. There is an organisation that has benefited from the years of political crisis in Iraq and Syria and is trying to fill the political gap in the region in its own way. Iraq and Damascus, the Islamic State of Islam - ISIS - have reached its strength today as a result of the wrong and inadequate policies of the government of Iraq and the regime in Syria. The public populations, who have been politically excluded, oppressed and heeded their legitimate demands by the rulers of his country, have eventually become open to the abuse of this organization. As a result, these areas were presented to the rulers of ISIS on a platter because of the persecution that has been going on for two years. On the other hand, it has also been remarkable that the troops of the 50,000 troops in Mosul (Musul) quickly retreated from Mosul (Musul) rather than engage with the estimated ISIS elements of several thousand. There is no other explanation for an organisation's complete capture of Iraq's largest provinces within two or three days and with the support of the locals. The deepening distinctions in Iraq have not been considered, unfortunately, for more than two years, as we have been persistently warning about tensions. We also regret to be justified in our warnings. As a result, the majority of Iraq's Sunni regions are under the control of ISIS. The aim of the organisation is to establish a so-called Islamic state, which includes most of Iraq and Syria. His progress in Iraq in the past week also shows that ISIS is moving towards its goal and plans to attack Baghdad. In response to the progress of ISIS, several volunteers, militias and soldiers from the southern provinces of the Shiite population in Iraq have been moved north towards the middle part of the country and information that the Iraqi army has been interfering with ISIS positions from the air. These developments indicate that Iraq was dragged into a more bloody sectal war than the 2007-08 period. We bring this risk to the attention of all relevant actors, especially the United States of America. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, unfortunately, our Turkishmen in Iraq are also negatively affected by this crisis. In particular, our family members in Telafer have fought a great battle for the past two days. After all, Telafer was dominated by ISIS last night. Just before that, our government immediately took action to provide immediate humanitarian assistance to our Shii Türkmen, who left the city and had to take refuge in the Kurdish-dominated Sincar region. The required work by the AFAD has been initiated immediately. Basically, similar humanitarian aid was quickly delivered to as many as 500,000 of our Iraqi brothers, who had to take refuge in the Iraqi Kurdish zone last week from Mosul. These recent events have once again shown that our country is always on the side of those who are persecuted, those who are in a difficult situation, regardless of any sect or ethnicity. We will continue to monitor closely the situation of all our relatives in Iraq, including Kerkuk, Mosul, Telafer, Tuzhurmatu. We will do everything in our power to ensure the safety of these regions. It's been one-sided, and we're definitely not gonna let it be created. In this regard, we continue to have high-level contact with all relevant parties, including the United States, the United Nations and NATO. On bilateral and multi-sided platforms, we also see that a state of al-Qaeda, which began from Syria just south of our borders, divided Iraq and reached the border with Iran, shared our views, not only to the Middle East, but to remind us of what it means to the whole world. Mr. President, the most important development that upsets us in its nature is that our Musul consulate staff, our citizens who took refuge in our consulate, and our brothers who carried gas to the power plant in the Geyara region of Alexander. Our consulate staff and other citizens and their safety are vital to us now in Mosul. We are also at a crucial stage for Turkey's economic and strategic interests. It's a very delicate process. You'll appreciate that it's not right to go into detail, to make a lot of statements about such sensitive matters in public. The two key elements of foreign policy are that it is more important than ever to observe privacy and secrecy at this stage. In that regard, our government and the State Department's statements have been carefully and carefully done so far, and this will continue to be the case from now on. At this critical stage, our Foreign Minister has made it possible for our political parties, who have been exposed to the group in parliament, to inform directly the presidents, to be able to be informed again if necessary. But we have a critical and dynamic process ahead of us. On the one hand, as we do these briefings, as we shed light on our public, on the other hand, all the necessary efforts are being carried out in Iraq to ensure that 31 of our citizens return safely to our country as soon as possible, as well as the staff of our consulate in Mosul, which has been held in Iraq since 11 June. I sincerely believe that such work will result in a positive outcome and that we will be able to meet our brothers as soon as possible. Security warnings regarding this country are being issued by our State Department due to a crisis in the area of security in Iraq. In this framework, it is strongly recommended that our citizens in Mosul, Kerkuk, Milahattin, Diyala, Anbar, Baghdad and Basra be cautious about their safety, leave these areas as soon as possible, and avoid travel to those areas. At the safety guard bar, our First Consul of the Basra was released this afternoon. The consulate employees were safely transferred to Kuwait. Mr. President, these developments in our region are capable of creating long-term transformations. Naturally, the sight of conflict and violence that emerges is unacceptable. However, the reason why Iraq and Syria have come to this situation must be carefully examined and remembered. Today's rulers are responsible for their falling into the chaos of these countries, the cradle of ancient civilizations. These executives, who fuel social polarization in their political interest, will, of course, answer in front of history. Our country will continue to do its part in the establishment of peace and stability in Syria and Iraq. Our goal is to establish good relations with all our neighbors based on mutual interest. However, in these two countries, we have a minimum expectation that the laws and human rights of our neighbor will prevail and that the fundamental principles of democracy will prevail. At this very important stage, our political parties, our parties in parliament, have shown a very exemplary solidarity. We really have them to thank for that. However, I think it's very important to consolidate this solidarity as much as possible and to share as little of the details of the events with the public as possible in the environment that we are in, and to consolidate our energy to ensure that our brothers return to Turkey, which is the main goal. With these expressions, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0074par0118	Thank you, Mr. Bozır. I'd like to submit the National Movement Group's proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting Tuesday (17/6/2014), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. Balıkesir MP Namik Havutça and his friends submitted a parliamentary research proposal (1403 ranked 1403), which was submitted to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 17/06/2014 to investigate the problems and student forgiveness of university students. lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the reviews and held in the same dated combination of its talks on Tuesday (17/06/2014). In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr. Namik Havutça MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, if you speak more slowly in the ranks of ministers... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0075par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been promised a group proposal for the pardon of our college students. I salute your high council. My fellow lawmakers, of course, the country may have many problems; inflation may be, unemployment may be, but in one country, if that country's youth trust in the country, the ways to be happy in that country are one of the greatest disasters if it is shut down. Therefore, look, the right to education is a right guaranteed in international contracts. The European Convention on Human Rights states that no one can be deprived of the right to education in Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Again, no one can be deprived of the right to education and teaching in Article 42 of our Constitution. The state provides scholarships and other ways to support successful students who lack material resources to continue their studies. Now, before there was a law that went to university -- before there was a Law 6111, with a bag of laws -- before February 25, 2011, somehow, there was forgiveness for students who had not been involved in any other crime, for financial improbability, for family reasons, for any other reason, for any other apology, February 25, 2011. So, what happened to our students after February 25, 2011, and what happened to their right to education? My fellow lawmakers, look, I've proposed a law on the right to education of our young people, and I've done this many times... the President of the Board of Education is here. Our students keep telling us, "Mr. Deputy, empathize, think of us as your own children." Emre says: So by leaving us out of the educational system, you also obstruct our individual rights and collective rights. Perhaps a very important value will grow from within these children to change the system of Turkey, so we need to listen to it. Look, I'm giving you numbers. At the core of our research proposal, Turkey is now suffering from housing issues among the most important problems of our university students, valued lawmakers. Look, there are 673 thousand new registers in the 2013-2014 academic year, 370,000 of our students have applied for dorms, 87,000 of them have been accepted into dorms, so that only one fifth of our students who have won our universities can find shelter in dorms. Today, we have 5 million students in Turkey, one fifth of whom can only find shelter in the dorms. So, where are our remaining students going to live? His parents don't have the means, he works for minimum wage, we have to solve the housing issue of his students. Look, it's our students' economic problems again. A student of ours, the student entitled to live in YURTKUR dorms, is a valued lawmakers who paid $120 in 2014. It's between 124 TL and 201 TL that a student pays during his stay at the dorm. He's paying $190 deposits and he's paying 250 liras. The price of food in the dorms is $5.00 minimum, and when we do a rough calculation, the student's housing and food cost is $369, so even that's half of the minimum wage family's money for a student, so that's their economic situation. Now, when you come in here, beyond housing, beyond economic problems, the real problem is -- as I just mentioned -- it's pushing these students out of the system. So now -- just as it puts it -- after the law that we passed, the law that you passed, the bag of legislation, and the law that brought forgiveness to college students -- 200,000 students have been pushed out of the system since then. What are these students doing? My fellow lawmakers, the hopes of these students for the state of the Republic of Turkey and for the future have failed. Look, I'm going to give you an example of these: Ersan Ayvaz, who lives in Istanbul, 28 years old, was expelled from school for failing two grades when he was in the 3rd class of the Department of Political Science and International Relations at Yıldız Technical University. Kenan Genghis, 26 years old in Diyarbakır, had to drop out of school because of financial impossibilities when he was a first-year student at the Tossian School of applied sciences. Alper Çamoğlu lives in Mersin, 25 years old, Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey University Department of Sociology dropped out of school in his 1st class for family reasons. Soner Mountaindelen, 25 years old, lives in Malatya, is cut off in 2011 due to financial impossibilities in the 2nd grade, lost two years even if he re-educated. Look, what does Emre Yilmaz say again? He says if this law comes out, Namık Abi, I'll be born again. Look, it's our student's thing. And also Emre Polat, and Buse says: "Everyone put your hand on your conscience. Think of us as your own children. My dear friends, I have seen this cry. Our students are from Balıkesir, Diyarbakır, Hakkari, Mardin, all over Turkey, all of our children, relatives, relatives, relatives, relatives. Look, there are 200,000 victims after Bag 6111. The students are waiting at the door, staring at the House. Yeah, we made a decision in the Board of Education that we... I've already proposed a law on this, and I think the DP has a law proposal, and I think that our friends in the AKP are taking a positive view of the problems of our students, and we've talked to him before. So come, see, from February 25, 2011 to May 25, 2012, 106,791 college students were cut off from universities for various reasons. That's 200,000 today. If this proposal is discussed in the main Commission, and a joint inter-party settlement is reached, our students will be re-coordinated as training, perhaps making new discoveries in this country. We will raise important people who will secure Turkey's tomorrows and open the way for Turkey. It's under the education system of a young, 18-year-old, 25-year-old, within the world, by closing the doors of the state's university, no, you've been absent. You'll never have the right to education again. Do we have the right to say that, dear MPs? Therefore, my dear friends, it is not his responsibility that we, as Republican People's Party, have proposed that Turkey should be a social state, the legal state of Turkey, the principles of independence of the judiciary, and that our students, these poor students, work at minimum wage. It is not his fault that a student is thrown out of the educational system, but the responsibility there is the problem of the system that can't raise him well. As we say in law, there is no crime in being born of a guilty mother. The disciple does not fail to be born of a mother. It's the problem of the system that can't train it that way, it's the problem of the system that makes a person guilty. So let's not do politics from here, you know, through the painful families in Soma. But let's not do politics from students who are waiting at college doors and being thrown out of the system. Come, to our sons, the security of tomorrow, which will bring the Republic of Turkey to the bright horizons, the nation of this country's state, the nation's nation's most important -- their eyes are here, and their future will be reopened by the law that will come out of here, and a bright Turkey will be born, and let us give them a life here as the Turkish Grand National Assembly, a solution to Turkey. If we don't do this, we'll lose the hopes of these children, of Büşra, of Yilmaz, of Kübra, of Murat, of Malatya, of those who follow us from here, and of Turkey. We've made our proposal as Republican People's Party. I am speaking from here to Büşra. I am speaking to Murat. I am speaking to Esra. The Republican People's Party is expressing all its will for this law to be passed. We're ready. In order to bring these young people into the future, all our efforts will continue with the adoption of this law, and I ask that this motion of research be put on the agenda to form a common will in Parliament, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0076par0143	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Against the Republican People's Party Group proposal, Mr. Mehmet Naci Bostancı, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0077par0146	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you first. They're asking for an investigation into student amnesty as part of the CHP motion. There's already a draft on the commission's agenda, on the Health Commission's agenda, on the student pardon, there's a bill. This will be discussed on Thursday. It'll probably be discussed in the commission, and it'll be a positive decision. According to CHP, the bill came from the government, and since the MHP sees it as positive, the HDP expects it to end in a good way. So it's gonna be tied up on Thursday. The point is, if this motion had been dealt with only with with logic of language and expression for student forgiveness, then I would have ended my conversation here. Since this is going to end well, I shouldn't have had any more discussion about it. But when I read the motion, I noticed two things. First of all: A picture of Turkey's higher education system is drawn so negatively that it's been drawn so critically that for ten or twelve years, it's as if higher education has been walking in its own form, and the AK PARTI is watching, and everything is getting worse. Of course, we don't expect beauty from opposition, but there's a saying in Anatolia: "Kill a man, kill a man, but give him the right." He could try to kill a man, but he had to write a few ideas about giving him his due. Because if you've been traveling around Turkey in these ten or twelve years, if you've been looking at universities in cities, buildings in cities, and improvements there, you'd have to look at it with an understanding, with a mind, with a sense, with a sense, with a sense to give it its due. I'll give you the numbers on this. The second is the logic here. I have to say, I find the logic here a little odd. It's like this: when I read the proposal, it says that almost all of our high-schooled students have problems -- all of them -- are getting worse every day. At the same time, the economic problem is devastating. And look at the sentence: ▪ As a result of these problems, about 200,000 college students have been suspended from education. • Since the economy is bad, the students failed because they were unable to provide a home for these students, because they could not be granted a scholarship. They have no fault, no sin. Oh, come on. If I read this motion as a college teacher and agree, will I grade the kids on the test? I say: 'Children, all of you pass, none of you have any flaws.' The motion says: "All flaws are in the system." There's no such thing as failure. It's not about you. This is all about your terms. No one's left, no one's past... when you look at the logic of this motion, of course you're making a logic that I'm going to criticize power, that you're ignoring the personal responsibility of people. When I read this, I thought of enlightenment. As a political follower of the Enlightenment in Turkey, the CHP and its tradition have its interest in enlightenment. Kant. Kant. Kant. Kant. has a very beautiful saying about enlightenment, which says: "The illumination is that a person should be saved from being a teenager whose own fault he is. " It is very important that he begin to use his own mind. " So, what he means is that if a person doesn't see his own flaw in the problem he's having, if he's always looking for other reasons, then that's behind the enlightenment. ▪ Enlightenment means asking what is wrong with me. He says. Friends, we also forgive flaws. Of course, one can be flawed. We forgive the students who failed because of their own flaws yesterday, we forgive them today, we speak on Thursday. But an understanding that puts aside everything about people's own flaws because I'm going to criticize power is not a right understanding, but a conflicting understanding that contradicts enlightenment, an understanding that pushes personal responsibility aside.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0078par0153	So, with the pardons that have been made before, you've been opposed to enlightenment?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0077par0154	And then I thought, "Why is HPP making such an argument?" And it seems to me that the overall assessment of Turkey's politics could be the result of its general outlook. I know that there are very valuable friends, and when we talk, they also make very realistic assessments in personal conversations, but when we look at the general politics of the CHP from the public, there are always others who are responsible for the failure of the political position of that political party. For example, they get angry at Mr. Recep, they get angry at the AK PARTY, sometimes they get angry at the nation. Brother, doesn't the party have its own responsibility for a conclusion? Is it because he's not a teenager, just like Kant said? Of course, when a political understanding is presented to the public in this way, you have no problem, you have no problem, it's not your fault. This defect belongs to the EC PARTY, which has completely ruined higher education for ten or twelve years. Therefore, teachers, correct this error, allocate it, pass it all. There is such understanding, such perception. I'm just saying that you really have to be careful with these expressions. What does it mean, what logic is the result of this? You gotta watch out for these. Dear friends, let's talk about what happened in high school. I'm traveling around Asia Minor. They build great buildings once. I went to Müsh University, lectured there. Buildings where people would be honored. Not only outside, but inside; not just building and stuff, but also human. I saw Pain University. It was amazing. I saw the University of Siirt, I saw the University of Rize, I saw the University of Aydın. Our University of Amasya was founded in 2006, creating great places, important. Things will be good, places will be good, because that's what respect is all about. That's our understanding. Only people grow up who rely on themselves and have the guts to conquer the world. That's our perspective. So, from his desk to his chair, from the research lab to the building itself, to the sociocultural fields, colleges are supported by an understanding of quality, aesthetics. There were 76 universities in 2002, 179 today. 76 in 2002. The university budget went up to 17 billion when it was 2.5 billion. 188,000 people live in dorms, 311,000 people live in dorms today, and new dorms are being built. In addition, municipalities will be given the opportunity to discuss it in the Parliament. Hopefully, there will be a mandate to fully meet the needs of this matter. 45,000 people get loans, 300,000 people get loans, 50,000 people get scholarships, I stress -- 1 million, 711,000 people get scholarships. When 451,000 people receive the student loan, 667,000 people receive it now, 405,000 people receive it, 509,000 now. We give 600 lira to graduates, 900 lira to PhDs. We provide $220 feeding aid for students at the dorm. All of this is a sign of how much the AK PARTI government actually supports the university, how each of its students sees each of them as a precious individual, a flag that will carry Turkey into the future. So, I understand that criticism, well, you'll certainly do it, but in order for that criticism to be a response to the public conscience, it also has to add information that the killing of the martyrs won't do him justice, so that people, yes, let them be lawful, they criticize, but look, they act with justice, they see the eyes, and they express them. I expect such an eye, such a mind, from a party with a long-standing tradition such as the CHP, but the language of this motion is not very appropriate, forgive me. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0079par0160	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0080par0161	Sir?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0079par0162	Sir, the speaker has made a theoretical assessment of some of the concepts that he had received from the Republic's People's Party Group by going up to enlightenment and taunting our group in order to say that the proposal of the person described by Immanuel Kant would be in line with the fact that the person described by Immanuel Kant is not a teenager. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0081par0164	No insults. Is that an insult?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0082par0165	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0079par0166	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have now made an astonishing assessment. Our proposal is clear, there's trouble in college, people have lost years, let's give them one more limited opportunity, don't get their records erased, don't get out of college. There is the Enlightenment Theory of Immanuel Kant. Yes, Kant wrote an article entitled "What is Enlightenment in 1784?," and the Revolution of Enlightenment begins with this article by Kant. In its description of enlightenment, Kant says that the fact that a person is not a teenager because of his own flaw is that he is unable to use his own mind in the guidance of another person. Well, I'm asking you: you've been pardoned a few times before. On what grounds did you receive these student pardons? Didn't you say then: "You're rude, students, don't you have any sense?" No, you said, "It's a problem." You took it off. Now, Mr. Bostanci, I'd like to give you a piece of advice: you always go and go to Kant. Yes, Kant has done a great service to mankind, he has led the Revolution of Enlightenment, but there have been many other minds since the Mind Theory of Kant. Habermas has come out, the tool mind has come out, the communication mind has come out, the evaluations that matter to man's feelings have been made. Come to the mind of a little communication and admit that man is not only a mind, but also a creature of emotions, come to the age. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0083par0171	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0084par0172	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0085par0173	You're in line now, Reverends. Please, Mr. Havutça has a priority. In the meantime, I'm gonna make a promise to my other friends before the TV goes off. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0086par0177	My dear President, my statement in the research motion is exactly this: Today, almost all of our high-school students have economic, education, education, scholarships, sociocultural problems, especially. I say that the problems mentioned are growing every day, and I don't use any other expression, it's growing. For example, when the AKP came to power in 2002, the number of teachers who were not appointed in Turkey was around 45-50,000, 2002. Look, Turkey's population profile is clear. I served 25 years as a history teacher. In Turkey, when we finished school, we finished school in June, we started working in September, we started teaching, we drew our rules, we started teaching. So, in Turkey, how many math teachers do you need in the five-year period, how many history teachers do you need, it's obvious; the population growth of Balıkesir is obvious, the population growth of Ankara is obvious, Hakari is obvious. So, 50,000 teachers in 2002, more than three years later, up to 80, four years later, up to 100,000. Do you manage Turkey as Minister of National Education? Don't you see how many, how many math teachers Turkey needs in Turkey, five years later? Then you tell us, "Why are you telling us this? " The teacher who can't be appointed in Turkey is 300,000, Mr. Hajji. Did we open these schools? Did we send out more of Turkey's math teacher? Why didn't you plan this? Isn't that what we're going to ask here? And when I say that... the math teacher's staff are watching us right now, asking why we can't be assigned. It can't because it's too much. We need one math school, and you've opened ten. The National Ministry of Education couldn't plan it with the NGO. You couldn't coordinate it. So, we don't have a scribble here, we have a definition of a fact. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0087par0181	Now, Mr. Bostanci, I promise you, but I mean, I have to go through a subtitle. Neither Mr. Hamzacebi nor Mr. Havutça, our insult to what you have said, have said a sentence against severe criticism, so I have listened very carefully to everyone. I'm going to promise you now, but I mean, please don't give a speech that forces you to answer. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0088par0184	First of all, I didn't insult CHP, I mentioned an assessment of its public appearance. Second of all, I don't think Kant is insulting either, nor does Mr. Hamzacebi. Here I repeated the word of Kant. Was Kant insulting you when you said that? No, he was trying to make a statement; you agree, you disagree. So I tried to make a statement about the state of the CHP. I understand Mr. Hamzacebi disagrees, but while I was making this determination, I went over the language of the motion here. If you read the proposal, the proposal lists the problems of higher education and is called 200,000 students who have failed as a result of all this. And I'm like, "Oh, my God! So these students don't have their own flaws, they don't see their own flaws?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0089par0186	The students have the right to be lazy.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0088par0187	Besides, even if it's people's own fault, we'll forgive it. I said, I didn't make any sense. Why do you do it in 2011? There is no such thing. The guy doesn't pay taxes, the pardon comes in, and what does he do? You forgive your own flaw. Why? Let there be peace. In the same way, of course, you can forgive your own flaws. This does not mean that humans are perfect, nor are any of us perfect. I mean, why are the students imperfect? We're all perfect, but what's their flaw? It doesn't make sense either, but don't you think it's wise to see everyone's own responsibility? There may be problems with their circumstances, but there's no problem with life. If you look at it, it may also be possible to make a motion regarding Mr. Hamzacebi's problems. For what I'm saying, for my problems... one has problems, one has problems, one has problems, and there is no such thing as having problems. I'm talking about responsibility, the responsibility of his will and his initiative. If you refer everything to the system, then they all have to pass, not personally responsible, and there's no such logic. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0090par0191	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0091par0192	Here you go. Now, from now on, the last word is for you, I promise no one else.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0090par0194	So, I don't have any problems that require a motion, and if you do, we can help you, and we can support you, if you bring that motion. Now, dear friends, the problem is clear: around 200,000 students have problems in college. Our friend says if he had used his mind, if he had worked, are we responsible for them all? If he didn't, he would have continued in the classroom. I mean, yes, the mind of Immanuel Kant. The enlightenment of Immanuel Kant would have required this, and he would have said, "Use your mind." It's not a false theory, but I mean, human beings aren't just minds; they have feelings, they have social circles, they have friends, they have problems. You're going to take a human with this environment, with these problems. This person, he may not have been able to attend this student school, he may have had problems in his personal life, he may have had problems in his family life, he may have lost his job, he may have lost his job, he may have been broke, he may have been lazy, he may have been all of them, but he may have regretted his lazyness. It's the government's job to give these people another chance. I mean, no, you're responsible, we don't agree. I don't think it's in the sense of government, there's no sense of government. Governments exist to solve problems. Why does Plan and Budget Commission now have a tax and bonus pardon arrangement? We support the Republican People's Party Group. Six times you've forgiven him, he'll only find 10th with them, except for tax pardons, bonus pardons. Why are you doing this? If you had used your mind, paid for it in my brother's time, it might have been said. Let's give him another opportunity, which he didn't pay, which he didn't pay, which he didn't do well in his finances, which he didn't do well. There is no double standard; consistency requires that you be the same everywhere. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] No government, no parliament can ignore 200,000 people. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0092par0201	Thank you. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0093par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to give Naci Hajji a hard time right now: Before he makes these speeches, I wish he'd reminiscent of Mr. Naci's role in 20 minutes as he passes the 4+4+4 Act. If you want that video, take it and watch it. Friends, raise your hand. Here, it's accepted. I mean, I wish that mind had used it correctly, and after it passed 4+4+4, the government said, "Excuse me." Naci Hodja, can I have your attention?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0094par0207	I'm listening.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0093par0208	The government said I'm sorry. We've been wrong for 66 months, I'm sorry. This nation has forgiven him, and I want to remind him, and I want to make a point here. [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] Now, we have received a pledge from the CHP Group as the National Movement Party in the parliamentary investigation motion. We salute you all. The AKP's power, yes, is all that they've done here, in fact, in plain sight. There's a policy going on that doesn't really matter. We can see that very easily in all the sectors. So, as we're now discussing in education, we can see this internationally, and we can see how recklessly people, young people, are being spent. Today, we also understand policies for Kerkuk, Musul, Telafer, and East Turkistan, on the current hot agendas. People's cries turned into silent screams. Desperation, pain, sobs, knee-deepness, but the policies of this power of desperation also show how seriously people are taken here. At this time, when are we going to respond to this pain, this screaming? That's how much a man's worth, and we want to emphasize it. Now, the worthlessness that took his head off has been particularly out of control in the field of education. In exchange for all these problems, the power's retort and rashness have come to the point where it's time to give up. We are facing some very important problems in education. One of them is the part about the dorms that the Republican People's Party spoke about in its motion. In particular in 2011 and 2012 -- the response we asked for -- 26,000 students were reported staying in the dorms, while 310 thousand students were served in 2013 and 2014. Despite increasing bed capacity of 45,000 in two years, the demand has increased by 70,000. If these projections were done correctly for the student's application, we wouldn't have such a problem today as a dorm problem. So, the demand increased by 70,000, while the capacity remained at 45,000. The state is seen as inadequate to provide housing for students. In particular, only 50 per cent of students who continue to study knitting can be met with dorm demands. There are other problems where lucky students enter the dorm. One of them, in particular, is a terror problem based on the information we've received from students from the media in the last year. In particular, there is no longer the safety of the students in the homes where terrorist organisations move around and improve their activities. It's possible you can confirm that from the media reports. We'd also like to inform you that you're having trouble with the food. In most dorms, students stay in rooms of eight. In addition, there are practices in the dorms that do not conform to the understanding of the social state, such as higher wages and low wages. So we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't accept, and we want them fixed. In particular, I'd like to share with you the statements made by Mr. Prime Minister about the dorms that show that things are getting out of hand. It says, Mr. Prime Minister: "If there is no room in the loan dorms, we will welcome you in hotels, we will entertain you in the institutions of the state, because we will never address you for their cruelty." We ask the Prime Minister: "We want to remind you that when we face certain problems, we need to show this kindness to our young people, this grace, this celebracy, but we need to show this kindness to a certain group. It's not just one group, it's the problem of the whole youth. This youth is for all of us, and if we don't have this youth, we'll find it like a boomerang tomorrow. Is it possible for a prime minister to say such things? How can a prime minister express his hatred, his hatred? You, as Prime Minister, are the Prime Minister of the entire country, and we want to remind you how we forget the oaths taken from this bench on our honor and honor. And again, there's a pardon that includes 200,000 students mentioned in the motion, and we'd like to bring it up. We know that some students were victims of over 100,000 students -- more than 100,000 -- who were not allowed to be pardoned after the law was passed. For that, we say, especially, that a chance should be given to these children again, so again, these 110,000 students need to be compensated. And again, no one can be denied the right to education and teaching under Article 42 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. And we also want to point out that no one leaves their education behind without obligation. We've all been through that process, who knows what we've been through, and if those opportunities hadn't been offered to us again, maybe we wouldn't have a chance to live around here. We need to look empathically, and for that, I think that if we look empathically, then we'll realize a little bit more about what those kids, what they're dealing with, what they're dealing with. Who knows what financial problems they're facing. They're facing family, personal or psychological problems, and these kids, these kids, they haven't committed a shameful crime. In a place in this country where even those who commit shameful crimes are pardoned and considered a first-class human being, we would like to see this pardon removed for their own personal financial impossibilities or innocent problems. And again, in 12 years, we've seen that students, parents, everyone is anxious. This power is no longer able to respond to the problems of both parents and students. And again, 6,000 students were victims. In particular, when they applied for the university entrance exam, their applications were not accepted due to problems caused by the system; they also invested their money. We're saying, if we could look at it empathically, it's a problem this time, but wouldn't it be better if we turned to forgiveness? Chief Ali Demir has made many mistakes, but he's still sitting in that chair. The nation's education ministers have made many mistakes in this country, but we've seen that if he can still sit in that chair, the mistakes that are not caused by those children, the mistakes that are caused by the system, need to be rectified again, and the victims need to be eliminated this Saturday, Sunday and next week's trials. And we've seen that the cumulative sum of this government's emotional intelligence is no longer enough to understand and solve the problems of this country's people. We now say, "Hopefully, I give you all respect for the faith that we are moving towards a very different future that can understand and solve the problems of this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0095par0224	Thank you, Mr. Gunner. Mr. Recep Special, Isparta MP on the Republican People's Party's Group proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0096par0228	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's request for a motion to investigate. The speakers who speak for both the Republican People's Party and the National Movement Party have drawn such an educational model in Turkey that it's as if we don't live in this country...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0097par0230	That's right!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0096par0231	We don't know what country they're talking about. Of course, we have more students than most countries have populations; we have 17 million students in secondary school, and we have 3 million students in higher education. When we came to power, what was the number of students, the number of universities? Currently, there has been an increase of about 100 percent, and we have a university close to 197. It is the common goal of all of us, all of us, of all politicians to study under better conditions here, but without seeing what has been done, without seeing the increase in student numbers... In the past, the National Ministry of Defence budgets have received the highest share of the budget, and for the first time in our time, the National Ministry of Education has become the highest share. Without seeing the good things that have been done, not only is education a non-problem field, of course they have problems, they have problems, they have a will to be resolved, a policy is set up. We're about 200,000 young people, so, therefore, they've frozen their records on some educational rights, they're expecting forgiveness. It's wrong to turn each one of these, yes, the expectation of forgiveness into an expectation of such a sociological event. Part of it's about to be pardoned. We think it's a little unfair to our students to try to get a result by making them a political polemic issue here, and it might be a little bit of a deterrent from their efforts to work. Of course, when there was a pile-up, a collection of pardons came up at various times in the past, and it came up, and there's a bill to discuss at the National Education Commission next Thursday, and there's an offer. It will be evaluated again there. The conditions of our country, the expectations of our college youth, will be answered. I also think it's wrong to expect a pardon as well as to wait for Bedelli's service. Of course, investments in education are not all about that; the smart board came in our era, all the technology classes are in our era. Now, is it possible to say that education has gone backwards in a country that has developed its own tank, its own rifle, its own defense industry? If our education had gone backwards, the fact that we were doing all these inventions that we couldn't do in the past, these breakthroughs at this time, so we're about to set up a solid foundation for education, which means that we're about to build this kind of... our national helicopter that we've had the delivery ceremony in this period... is it possible for a state that doesn't invest in education, a country that doesn't invest in education, a country that doesn't invest in education, that kind of investments like this? Now, we're going to put our hands on our conscience, we've done well for good deeds, thank you, but it's better to do so. We all have to demonstrate the virtue of being able to say as a political institution. Of course, in our country, we all want all of our college students to be able to read without problems, but where there are three million college students, 17 million middle students, there will be problems, of course. We hope that we can find a good outcome in this amnesty that is on the agenda. Our goal is that everyone in Turkey can read in high school. Hopefully, it's our basic desire to give our country a time when the exams have been lifted and make colleges a transition without exams. Do our college students have dorm problems? Yes, you do. We have added a clause to the new bag of legislation to fix these, and now our municipalities will have the opportunity to build a dorm. As soon as possible, solving the dorm problems of our college students is one of our main goals. Of course, today we've been talking about the Turkish Penal Code for two weeks -- last week -- and he's hanging. Hopefully this week, as of today, we hope and desire to end this. With the overwhelming support of the opposition, with their contributions, we have a working schedule for this week. I'd like to thank you in advance for your good efforts. I'm afraid I can't agree with your motion, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0098par0245	I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now let me ask you something, dear MPs. According to Article 37, if you wait ten minutes for him to be taken directly into the agenda...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0099par0247	Let's meet.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0100par0248	I'll see you, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0098par0249	Oh, I'll see you. And then I'm gonna take a break for dinner. You asked me to take a break; I don't want to be annoying. Yes, now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be put on the agenda, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The original number (2/353) (the Law Proposal for Changes in Higher Education Law No. 2457) I propose that the act be carried out according to Article 37 of the Civil Code. 05.04.2012 As the owner of the proposal, İstanbul MP Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0101par0259	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this bill includes the amendment of Article 54 of Higher Education Law 2547. We know that after the coup of September 12th, the NGO Law was designed to reduce the freedom of universities to put academic and administrative pressure on faculty and students. However, after thirty years, it is still applied to the centralist philosophy at its core. The SEC Act eliminates academic and administrative freedoms for political reasons. The SEC is not an independent and neutral institution, it has not been; rather, it is a political institution. The reason for existence is not academic anxiety, but purely ideological control. The student disciplinary regulations are organised by the Board of Higher Education on the basis of the ruling in Article 54/a of the SEC Law, which states that the framework of regulations is regulated by the law. Some changes have been made in 2012, some definitions and provisions have been lifted, some additional changes have come in 2013, but changes in regulations remain fundamental, as long as the law remains the law. This law can only be a basis for antidemocratic regulations. The basic understanding of the law will not make any difference in any new regulation, since it considers students potential criminals, and it has not already. In addition, with the latest additional arrangements, unauthorized handing out notices is still a punishment. According to Article 54, acting contrary to honor and honor in the title of higher education studentship within or outside higher education institutions is the reason for the investigation, the reason for the indirect course of conduct, and the reason for the investigation of learning and teaching freedom. I mean, these are sanctioned, open to interpretation, subjective concepts under the law. For example, respect is one of the unwritten rules that vary within the community, but is not quantifiable, so it is not acceptable to be punished for disrespect. Now, these aren't actually in the new regulations, but according to the existing law, they're a crime. Another political control element in the law is the ban on participation in anarchist and ideological events. This statement ignores the Constitution's 25, 26 and 34th Articles that guarantee individual rights and freedoms. Dear lawmakers, these regulations that affect the education and future of the students show that the NGO is continuing today to intimidate young people and to silence universities. This results from the policy of intimidation of students, not only in exams, but in the process of extending the school, but also in the process of getting kicked out of public homes. In particular, arrested and convicted students have a lot of shortages and problems. To achieve progress in our country, science, technology, social sciences, academic freedom is essential, international academic staff and state funding. I don't know, a country that has entered the top 10 economies in the world without producing science, just concrete. There is no doubt that one day this law will change. In 2012, the Board of Higher Education presented a draft law to the MEB that contained some very controversial changes. However, there is no positive change in student disciplinary regulations in this draft. As a result, the democratic and modern reformation of this criticised regulation depends on the restructuring of Article 54 of 2547 (the 2547), which is based on this regulation. I hope that this offer can be accepted to ensure that regulations and laws meet the needs of our age, the needs of our young people, and the democratic rights of our students. My respects.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0102par0270	Thank you, Mr. Danishoglu. Manisa MP Free Special, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0103par0273	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Charter, we have an offer to be brought to the attention directly because of the 45-day absence of our RD Law Proposal on the relevant commission. We care deeply about that. However, before I express my opinion on this matter, I'd like to share with the House a situation I've been in. I think it's a common problem because we had a major disaster in Soma, and we promised Soma. We said that Mr. Salih Kapusuz came as the Prime Minister's envoy and in five days we'll make arrangements for Soma. It included six hours of daily work, 36 hours a week, a special minimum wage for the underground, a home, a salary, a job for those left behind from job security. At the point where we're coming up, as the days go by over Soma, Soma, to be forgotten, to be neglected, to have these eight-point proposals about Soma, to 50 articles in the Plan Budget subcommittee, 104 articles in which we're discussed, we're afraid that now the main commission is moving to a point that will exceed 200 articles. Now, without promises made to Soma, I regret and shame to talk about something else here every day as expectations of other matters have been a little more futile, while six hours of work has been thrown back on the subcommittee with the ruling party lawmakers withdrawing the motion. However, I stress once again that the key responsibility in this matter belongs to the ruling party group and the ruling party's government, and that the situation in the lower commission needs to be interfered with. Our proposal for the law is based on the Higher Education Agency. Once again, the trial of democracy by the Justice and Development Party, once again the test of consistency, here's the good faith, once again the ruling party group facing a test of rights. Until ten years ago, where are the men and women with women and protestors with external support after every Friday prayer at the White House? Were you objecting that day, because the YKK was not yours? After being taken over today... the opposition parties will soon raise their hands about the removal of the ECHR, which is one of the cornerstones of the 1982 Constitution of the 1980 coup of Kenan Evren. Now, will you join me in raising that hand? Kenan Pasha is watching you carefully at the GATA Palasta. He'll stand in a bed like this, with a smile on his face, and we'll see what our boys do. They haven't embarrassed me until today. I asked for the authority to issue a decree under the law, and my friends said, "This is too much!" I said yes, yes. I said yes. I used a little bit, and the AKP used as much as I did. I thought I'd legalize martial law courts, not so much. They said, "The AKP has set up special authority courts that will then trouble itself." I've set up the election dam. They say Paşam won't be in democracy. The Prime Minister continues to defend like lions. Now, they won't embarrass me in the CEC Law, but there's a vote coming up, and our boys are going to defend the PLO, no matter what they say. Maybe the BDP and the MHP will vote together with the CHP, but the children of Kenan Pasha will continue to defend the YKK. Don't embarrass Pasha!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0104par0278	Whose child are you?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0103par0279	Paşa would be uncomfortable with that, and he'd go to bed with his eyes open. So in order for him to sit down with a smile, you must continue to defend the CEC Law. I told you over and over here last year, it's not a surprise. The September 12th referendum... November 7, 1982, and the vote was held. There were 91 per cent votes in Turkey, transparent envelopes and so on. Everyone may have their excuses, their reasons, their fears, but after a pause against the question asked in the previous referendum, do you know that the Prime Minister who said "No" was the only one who voted and voted with his wife in that box? I'm asking you: bring the result of that chest on this, we want the result of that chest. And don't embarrass Kenan Pasha, he's watching you very carefully.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0105par0283	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0106par0284	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit04spe0105par0285	Now, I submit the proposal to your votes, and I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient: All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit05spe0105par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Turkish Penal Code, which is ranked in the 3rd place, with the draft of the Law on Changes in Some Laws, and the similar proposals of the law, as well as the Women's Association of Opportunity Commission and the Justice Commission Reports. Commission? Here. Government? Here. According to Article 91, Article 91 of the Interior Charter of 12/6/2014, Article 86 was adopted in the fourth chapter of the bill, which was considered the fundamental law. Now, there are three motions on Article 87, which I'm going to read and process in order. Seeing 592 S. Your law is 87. Article 5549 S. Article 9/A of the Law. It's a joke. We propose and propose that the notification be removed from the text, which does not use those who have been established, that they must use available electronic addresses and provide answers in the electronic environment, that they be delivered in the electronic environment, as well as other procedures related to the notifications in the electronic environment. Faruk Bal Ali Longırmak Yusuf Halaçoğlu To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 9/A, which is added to the framework of Article 87 of the current law bill 592, be removed from the draft text of Article 1/A. Erol Dora Idris Baluken Nazmi Gür I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 592 rows, 87. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Riza Özturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit05spe0107par0038	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit05spe0105par0039	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit05spe0108par0040	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit05spe0109par0041	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit05spe0105par0042	Read the reason. It violates the system of the law. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9/A, which is added to the framework of Article 87 of the current law bill 592, be removed from the draft text of Article 1/A. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit05spe0110par0051	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit05spe0105par0052	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit05spe0111par0053	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit05spe0105par0054	Read the reason. The Law on Obstruction of Terrorism is a law based on the Anti-Terror Law and built on it. As a matter of fact, when this law, which is very broad in its scope, came to the agenda of the House, we suggested that it should not be brought up, not legalized. We would like to propose that the proposed provision for this law, which we have already envisioned being abolished, be removed from the draft text, which is not acceptable by our side. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit05spe0112par0058	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit05spe0105par0059	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit06spe0105par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 87 of the Law Bill 592, there was not enough decision in the vote of Mr. Idris Bauken and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. Now, since there's been a disagreement between the clerk members, I'm going to vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. We continue the talks of Bill 592. The commission is here. The government is here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 592 S. Your law is 87. Article 5549 S. Article 9/A of the Law. It's a joke. We propose and propose that the notification be removed from the text, which does not use those who have been established, that they must use available electronic addresses and provide answers in the electronic environment, that they be delivered in the electronic environment, as well as other procedures related to the notifications in the electronic environment. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit06spe0113par0017	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit06spe0105par0018	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit06spe0114par0019	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit06spe0105par0020	Mr. Faruk Bal, you're on your way.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit06spe0115par0022	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party, in connection with the matter we've discussed, are putting a state understanding of one man's administration into this clause as well. The legal conclusion of the notification should be determined by the law, but it's handing it over to a TİB president, an administrative agent, who is the body of running its procedures and foundations. This is contrary to democratic values, the essence of the parliamentary system, the relationship between legislation and governance. I don't think this anomaly will be resolved by AKP votes. So, I'd like to bring it to a different point. Dear MPs, there is blood flowing in the Turkmeneli region of Iraq, and Turkishmen's scream from the Turkmen district of Iraq is spreading throughout the world. The blood that flows there has turned into a lake that leaves a heavy stain on the human conscience. This cry is not seen, hears not, blind, deaf and dumb against them, in Telafer, in Mosul, in Tuzhurmatou. My dear friends, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This is where the law of every element of the Turkish nation will be protected. Other regions of Mosul, Kerkuk, and Turkmeneli (Turkishmeneli) in that area were in Misakimilli as this assembly was established. Now, if those places that were in the middle of the Islamic Liberation War were ripped out of Turkey after the war, and the oil networks, oil fathers, oil trusts, cartels had been drawn with toyed ruler lines in 2014, those holding that ruler are now trying to draw a new map again and again at the desk. To this end, we see the progress of the project of reshaping the Middle East, called the BOP project. As co-chairman of the BOP project, Mr. Prime Minister has also carried out some very important tasks. During the process of the instability of Syria, of course, a number of ties were established with terrorist organizations whose weapons would one day return to Turkey in the fight against Esed. The headquarters of these terrorist organizations were invited to meetings in Turkey, a number of logistical training, supports were given, and now they appear to be ISIS bandits, ISIS terrorists and ISIS massacrers. The AKP has the plague at the distance from which ISIS has taken, and the Turkish blood, which ISIS has slaughtered, has AKP's plague. The ISIS, which he supports and feeds, has now taken the Musul consulate in Mosul, where the Turkish flag of the moon, the flag of the moon, is waving, without firing a single shot, and has taken the Turkish citizens, diplomats, and diplomats, with all sorts of legal values, hostage, with a complete sense of terrorism. Of course, it is the AKP government's job to find a cure, but it faces the threat: If an operation is carried out, their lives are at stake. The AKP also submitted to ISIS's threat because it followed its policy of surrender against terrorism, while it was expected to take a step within the information framework of Parliament starting last Friday, four days and five days later, the AKP still failed to take a step to inform the parliament on this matter. Because the voices that rise from here will explain that ISIS is a terrorist, that he is a barbarian, that he is covered in Turkmen blood, and that he will be able to announce a cry for help. The Justice and Development Party, who can't even think to announce it, has left the Turkmen community alone in a complete surrender policy. The plague of this is great, heavy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We expect the AKP to stand somewhere in the struggle of the Muslim Turkmen, just as Egypt, Azekah, Somalia, Sudan, some injustices, irregularities. But your position is obvious, obviously, not with the Turks.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit06spe0116par0029	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four proposals in Article 88; the two are the same property, so I'll read them and process them in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 592th Amendment of the 592th Amendment be replaced by Article 88, which is included in the Fifth Amendment to Article 13 of the Law. Mihrimah Belma Line Mehmet Doğan Kubat Azize Sibel Gönul İdris Şahin Ahmet Berat Çonkar llyas Şeker To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The framework of the 592 row bill, which is in question, is Article 88, and we propose and introduce the addition of the declaration to the article 5549, which is included in Article 13 and thus following the declaration. Erol Dora Idris Baluken Nazmi Gür Now, the two proposals I'm going to read are the same thing, and I'm going to process them together, and I'm going to promise separate motions if asked: Seeing 592 S. Your law is 88. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Faruk Bal Ali Longırmak Yusuf Halaçoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Riza Özturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Do you agree with the commission's motions?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit06spe0117par0058	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit06spe0116par0059	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit06spe0118par0060	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit06spe0116par0061	Mr. Faruk Bal. Congressmans, in the back row, laughter is good, conversation is good... Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit06spe0119par0065	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'll pick up where I left off. Some of our friends prefer to chat while I talk. You may be comfortable in this world, but perhaps I suggest you listen to it to help your afterlife. Of course, Islam, which has made great contributions to human values, commands to stand with the oppressed, and commands to stand against the wrongdoers, in every way and in every way. Within this scope, the state of the Republic of Turkey and its governments have opposed some injustices in Somalia, Azekat, and around the world. In this scope, the Justice and Development Party's governments have also opposed and we support every move against persecution as the National Movement Party. However, something is missing. What is missing is that there is Rabia in Egypt, and Rabia in the land of Egypt, and Rabia in the name of Rabia, and Rabia in the sign of Rabia, and there is Rabia in East Turkistan, which is oppressed under the Chinese parable. While this Rabia was a businesswoman and in great prosperity, the Uygur Turk raised a flag against the persecution of China and fought a battle. He had to leave his country, his home, his furnace, his work, his family, and took refuge in the United States of America. Just two days ago, three Uygur Turks were executed under Chinese tyranny; have you heard, do you know, AKP MPs? Before that, two Uygur Turks were sentenced to death and executed by the Chinese court. Why wouldn't the press that you controlled with the Alo lines get this to the Turkish nation? Isn't that your responsibility? Here are the two Rabias; one is the Muslim Rabia, which you have exploited politically, and the other is the essence of the Turkish nation, and the essence of the Islamic world, Uygur Türku, the Rabia of East Turkistan. Let's go from here to Iraq. You laid the stones of the road to Iraq one by one in Syria. Assad was your brother, and you turned your brother Assad into an enemy, and you changed his name: you collaborated with terrorist organizations when you were fighting against him. The Undersecretary of MIT has agreed that 2,000 truckloads of weapons have gone, at a meeting of the Minister, the Deputy Chief of Staff. Where did that gun go, brother? I'm interviewing all Turkishmen's officials. We don't even need diapers, it didn't come from Turkey. We didn't get any help, so put the gun down. In need of help, in need of water, in need of flour, in need of sugar, Turkmen is now under the threat of ISIS weapons. In his temple, ISIS's weapon is at a point of choice between life and life, and hundreds of thousands of Turkishmen have taken refuge in the deserts, fleeing from their areas in Telafer, Tuzhurmatu, and elsewhere. Last night, the president of the Turkmen Assembly was told on all televisions- we need water, water. The answer to such persecuted Turks is obvious, Mr. Bkent Arinc explains yesterday after the Council of Ministers: Turkishmen are wise people, they know that Turkey cannot intervene there, they need to act smart. It is wise either to shed blood under the gun of ISIS or to give up the identity of the clever Turkmen. My dear friends, why don't you reach out to the Islamic world and see the Muslim world and the Turkish world? The Lord God has given you two eyes, so that you may see the world straight, don't look at it with one eye, and give an answer to this cry. One day tomorrow the problem here will be reflected in Turkey, so there's no need to be a fortune teller. The problem there will be reflected in Turkey just as the problem in Iraq is reflected in Syria.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit06spe0120par0075	Thank you. Does Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk speak?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit06spe0121par0077	Motive.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit06spe0120par0078	I'm reading the reason: It violates the system of the law.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit06spe0121par0081	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit06spe0120par0082	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit07spe0120par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the unanimous vote of the two motions for the release of Article 88 of the Law Bill 592. Now, I'm going to put the motions back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't accept... there's enough to decide, it's not accepted. We'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. The commission is here, the government is here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the 592-line bill, which is in question, is Article 88, and we propose and add the declaration of the Article 5549 to the 13th amendment. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit07spe0122par0012	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit07spe0120par0013	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit07spe0123par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit07spe0120par0015	Read the reason, please. The change was intended to make the narrative clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 592th Amendment of the 592th Amendment be replaced by Article 88, which is included in the Fifth Amendment to Article 13 of the Law. Mihrimah Belma Row (Istanbul) and friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit07spe0124par0024	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit07spe0120par0025	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit07spe0125par0026	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit07spe0120par0027	Read the reason. This motion was made to increase the upper limit of administrative fines issued in the article. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In the accepted framework of the motion, I submit to your votes Article 88: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three proposals in Article 89. I'll have them read and processed in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of Article 89 of the 592 rows of the law shall be changed in five days' notice until a thousand days. Erol Dora Idris Baluken Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Sırrıyya Leader Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 89 of the Law Act 89 be replaced in the following way by the Turkish Penal Code 592. Mihrimah Belma Kiyet Mehmet Doğan Kubat İdris Şahin Ekrem Çelebi A. Berat Çonkar Fatih Han Ünal Ağrı İstanbul Army ADADDE 89-21/2003/2007, article 3/07 of the Anti-Trafficking Act No. 5607; the person involved in the second joke "using false documents" in the form of "insulting transactions and actions," "for one year" in the form of "two years" in the form of "two years" in his third joke, "two years" in the form of "one to three years" in the form of "one year"; the person acting as in his second joke "existing out of the country with a fake document" in the form of "three years" in the form of "one year," "two years out of another year" in the form of a double-year" or "tribution" in which he has issued a new charge of "two months," according to two years" in his "tribution" or "trials" in the same manner as a double-year" in his "trial year" or "trial year" in the same manner as the same manner as a double-year" or "trial charge of a double-s" in his "trial year" in his sentence. "The punishments will be increased from half to twice as much, according to the jokes above, but with the implementation of this joke, the punishment cannot be less than three years." The eleventh and eighteenth jokes have been changed as follows, and the nineteenth and twentyth jokes have been removed from effect, and the following joke has been added to the article. " (11) The National Marker, which includes or does not contain national markers below the level set by the Energy Market Editorial Agency; A) who produces, maintains, or transports for commercial purposes, B) Saler or seller, C) Buying this property knowingly and commercially, A person is sentenced from two to five years in prison and to 20,000 days in criminal fines. However, if it is understood that the fuel, which does not contain markers or whose level is invalid, is smuggled into the dorms, the sentence shall be ruled as punishment for the sentence of the tenth joke." " (18) Tobacco products, ethanyl alcohol, methanol and alcoholic beverages with no label, holograms, stamp, stamp, or similar markings on their packaging, or fake or misleading bandols, labels, holograms, stamps, stamps, or so on; a) Trade maker, owner, or transplanter for commercial purposes B) Saler or seller, C) Buying this property knowingly and commercially, A person is sentenced to three to six years in prison and to 20,000 days in criminal fines. However, if it is understood that tobacco products, ethanol, methanol, and alcoholic beverages are smuggled into the dorm, the sentence shall be ruled on the sentence of the tenth joke." "22) In case the value of the object of the crime described in the above jokes is excessive, punishments will be increased from half to half." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders Numbered Legislature 89. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text. Faruk Bal Ali Öz Reşat Right Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Şandir Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit07spe0126par0065	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit07spe0120par0066	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit07spe0127par0067	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit07spe0120par0068	Mr. Faruk Bal, you're on your way.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit07spe0128par0070	Mr. President, when we looked at the day of Iraq and Syria, it was clear from Wednesday that Thursday's coming. With the BOP project, the shape of 33 countries in the Middle East and Central Asia region has been changed, while Turkey has supported this project under the name zero problem policy with neighbours during the co-chairing process. Earlier, in 2002, we became completely hostile in the scope of the zero-problem policy with our neighbors, who were not at least enemies, in which we had good relations. I'd like to consider the issue for Iraq and Syria only because of the time. My dear friends, in the process of destabilisation of Syria, ISIS and other terrorist organizations have received substantial support from the Justice and Development Party. All democratic countries know you're not going to fall in love with a terrorist organization. However, the Justice and Development Party, which did not embrace democratic tradition and democracy at its core, supported these terrorist organisations, thinking that Esed would move quickly with its short-day accounts or aim to achieve such a goal. The day came when the ISIS, which they had been supporting, hoped to bring down Esed (Esed) from power, revealed its brutality when it became stronger, and began to demonstrate more barbaric practices than the most serious barbarians history has ever known. Today, in virtual media, we can't see this in the media, we can't see it in the media, we can't see it in the friendly and friendly media, but the images on virtual media are capable of putting your heart into your mouth and freezing your blood. In support of your support, the ISIS, which you have uncovered to destroy Esed, declares to the world its brutality enough to cut off the heads of five people and have their heads lined up like sheep's heads and photographed. A single person in charge of 15 prisoners of Turkmen and other ethnic groups wants to use the power of terror to spread violence against the hostile forces around him by shooting, shooting, killing, and showing blood through their own broadcast organs to the world. It's all so obvious, so obvious. In this framework, ISIS seized Mosul, Tikrit, Anbar, Telafer, and Fallujah. He traveled 150km between Mosul and Baghdad, and at that distance he gained a fear-based advantage. Of course, it is your responsibility to bring this superiority to light, but what I want to point out is that there are Turkmen who are afraid of it. The only people who are afraid of it should hear it from Turkey. However, you became friends with BOP and global forces in the policies of this zero problem and the BOP project; you went further and became subject to the Turkish enemy, the Muslim Turkish enemy, and as a result, you were toasted among terrorist organizations such as the PKK, such as the ISIS, El Nusra. And this toast will allow you, in the coming process, to be accounted for, respected, and subjected to the public conscience.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit07spe0120par0073	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, I'm gonna take a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0120par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 592 from where we left off. The commission is here, the government is here. I'm reading the other motion on Article 89: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 89 of the Law Act 89 be replaced in the following way by the Turkish Penal Code 592. Mihrimah Belma Row (Istanbul) and friends ADADDE 89-21/2003/2007, article 3/07 of the Anti-Trafficking Act No. 5607; the person in his second joke "using false documents" in the form of "insulting transactions and actions," "for one year" in the form of "two years" in the form of "two years" in his third joke, "two years" in the form of "one to three years" in the form of "one year"; the person in his fourth joke "expensing money from six months to three years" in the form of "expenstmentalting property from one year," "for another year" in the form of a new year" or "two years," according to a new year's report, "indictation" in the form of an additional year" or "indicative year" from two years, "indictances" in which "existed" in the same manner as a double year" or "indicted by the same manner as a double year" or "indictee" in which he referred to two years" or "incarnation" in the same manner as "exitives" as a double year" in which he referred to a double year" or "exitives" as a double year" as a double year" or "exitives" as a double year" as a double year" in the same year" as a double-year, "tage, "ts" as a double year" as a double year" as a number of the same year" or "t" as a double year" as a double-year, "t" or "t" as a double year" as a number of "exe" as a double year" as a double year" as a number of the same as a number of the same as a number of "t" as a double year" as a number of "ts" as a double year or "t" as a number of "t" as a number of "t" or "tage" as a number of "tage" or "exitives" as a number of "tage" or "t" as a number of the same as a number of the same as a number of the same as a double year or "ts" as a number of the "The punishments will be increased from half to twice as much, according to the jokes above, but with the implementation of this joke, the punishment cannot be less than three years." The eleventh and eighteenth jokes have been changed as follows, and the nineteenth and twentyth jokes have been removed from effect, and the following joke has been added to the article. " (11) The National Marker, which includes or does not contain national markers below the level set by the Energy Market Editorial Agency; A) who produces, maintains, or transports for commercial purposes, B) Saler or seller, C) Buying this property knowingly and commercially, A person is sentenced from two to five years in prison and to 20,000 days in criminal fines. However, if it is understood that the fuel, which does not contain markers or whose level is invalid, is smuggled into the dorms, the sentence shall be ruled as punishment for the sentence of the tenth joke." " (18) Tobacco products, ethanyl alcohol, methanol and alcoholic beverages with no label, holograms, stamp, stamp, or similar markings on their packaging, or fake or misleading bandols, labels, holograms, stamps, stamps, or so on; a) Trade maker, owner, or transplanter for commercial purposes B) Saler or seller, C) Buying this property knowingly and commercially, A person is sentenced to three to six years in prison and to 20,000 days in criminal fines. However, if it is understood that tobacco products, ethanol, methanol, and alcoholic beverages are smuggled into the dorm, the sentence shall be ruled on the sentence of the tenth joke." "22) In case the value of the object of the crime described in the above jokes is excessive, punishments will be increased from half to half." Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0129par0021	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0120par0022	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0130par0023	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0131par0024	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0120par0025	Sir.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0131par0026	Look, we forgive gas smuggling, oil smuggling, arms smuggling. Now, let this government explain to us, this Commission will explain, sir. At a time like this, who are these people who forgive so much smuggling without our knowledge? Are these smugglers partners or not? Bekir, explain why you're laughing!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0132par0027	Is there such a procedure, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0133par0028	You're lying.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0131par0029	Now, sir, you're bringing in a two-page pardon law, explain that to us.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0132par0030	The fines are going up.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0131par0031	Mr. President, we vote here as MPs. Now, at the last moment... The technique of making laws is clear: first, the law will go away, the commissions will be discussed, commissions will come to a conclusion there, and here it will come.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0132par0033	The members of the Justice Commission know.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0134par0034	Can't he recommend it?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0131par0035	We don't know the substance, there's nothing brought in. At the last moment, the AKP group MPs bring in tax traffickers, zoning smugglers, oil traffickers, arms traffickers who are close to them and forgive them here, my conscience does not accept, sir, let them explain, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0135par0036	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0136par0037	Thank you. Now...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0137par0040	And at a time when the TV doesn't broadcast, they do, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0138par0041	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0136par0042	Now, the government will make a statement. Please...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0138par0044	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0136par0045	Sir?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0139par0046	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0138par0047	Mr. President, in particular, of course, lawmakers are always entitled to make a motion.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0136par0048	No, I know that. Now, Mr. Secretary said: I'll make a thousand statements.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0138par0050	Besides, this motion was also discussed with the deputy leader of the group... and I know there should be no problem with the Republican People's Party Deputy, so I'm trying to tell you that what he claims is not the right thing.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0140par0051	No, no, not like that, sir. Now, I'd like to see...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0141par0053	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0140par0054	Just a moment, Mr. Secretary. Sir, it's been seen. When you say that, it's as if I knew about this motion as Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group; there's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0142par0056	It's been briefed, so it's been suspended.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0143par0057	Why are you giving it to me at the last minute?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0142par0058	It was delivered last week.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0144par0059	When I saw this motion just now, I asked because it was such a comprehensive motion, and you paused, and we got in the back, and I got information from Mr. Chairman of the Justice Commission, and I got information from both the Vice President and the relevant technical friends about the motion. So, Mr. Kamer's objection is, in a sense, true, such a comprehensive motion should have been given by the General Assembly in advance. Because what's being done? We've received information from the President of the Justice Commission on this matter as much as time allows, but I'd appreciate it if he could give it to us again.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0145par0060	Mr. Secretary, are you going to talk or are you going to talk?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0146par0061	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0145par0062	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0146par0063	The amendment proposal for this substance and matter is essentially not subject to any reductions in penalties. During the Justice Commission negotiations, this clause...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0147par0064	Why don't you give it to me in time, on time? Who are you smuggling from? What are you missing?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0146par0065	...as the negotiations were held, some work was done on this clause, as the Commission requested, and the matter was changed according to him...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0147par0066	Is that the law, Bekir?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0146par0067	There is no way to go backwards from the current law. For example, here's the thing, using forged documents...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0147par0068	Yeah, now you're threatening to punish someone, and now you're forgiving them.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0146par0069	...incarceration of customs taxes, partly or completely unpaid, from one year to five years in prison and up to ten thousand days in prison... I don't read them all, all the headlines are increased in fines, there's a reduced sentence in one title. If he says I'm lying as Minister of Justice, then I'll admit that I'm lying, but look, there's no discount on one item, there's no pardon on one item; we're raising sentences, but you're objecting here. I don't want to report you...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0147par0070	Why bring it back later?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0146par0071	It wasn't made later, this motion was made last week, it's been here since last week, it's been recorded here.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0148par0072	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0147par0073	Let's see the motion.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0146par0074	This motion was not made later. It was given last week, so I don't know if there's any...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0147par0075	Give me the motion, give me the motion, and we'll see!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0149par0076	What do we do?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0150par0077	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0149par0078	The reason... one second. I'm going to read the summary of the reason for the motion now that it's past 500 words, and the entire reason will be in the report magazine. [[*]] The regulation of Article 3 of the Law Against Trafficking No. 5607 has shown that different penalties have been held in the same manner in terms of trafficking verbs, so there has been hesitation in implementing them. On the other hand, there are narrow interpretations of trafficking verbs and criticisms that some smuggling acts remain unpunished due to the provisions involved in the trafficking crimes. In this context, the phrase "using false documents" in the first joke of matter is changed to "in deception and behavior." A similar arrangement is made in the fourth joke. On the other hand, punishments in the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and eighth jokes of the substance are increased in order to deal more effectively with trafficking crimes. With the change in the tenth joke, the issue of the trafficking charge has been reduced to fuel and tobacco products, ethanol, methanol and alcoholic beverages, and the crime described in the above jokes of the substance has been reduced to its qualified state. It is also organised as part of a single joke because the elements of crimes described in the 18th, 19th, and 20th jokes of the substance are similar. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Since this motion has been adopted and the clause has been changed completely, I am withdrawing the motion of Mr. Idris Baluken and his friends, which envisions a change in this clause.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0151par0088	Mr. President, we need a motion.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0149par0089	No, you talked, we're in Article 89. Yes, I submit Article 89, in the accepted draft framework, to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three proposals in Article 90. I'll have them read and processed in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "The President of the Board of the Board" in Article 90 of the current law bill 592 is changed to "With the President of the Board." Erol Dora Idris Baluken Nazmi Gür Now, the two proposals I'm going to make you read are the same thing, and I'm going to make you read them, and I'm going to promise the motion holders that they want, and I'm going to process them as one. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 592 rows, 90. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Riza Özturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Kamer Young Mehmet Haberal Ali İhsan İkturk The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Erdoğan Alim İk Seyfettin Yilmaz Ali Öz Adnan Safik Ugly S. Nevzat Don't Fear Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0152par0113	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0149par0114	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0153par0115	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0149par0116	Mr. Ali İhsan Kokturk, Zonguldak MP.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0154par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on the 90th article of Bill 592. First of all, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, the clause we have agreed on and the ten articles that continue to regulate the structure of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. We all know that much less than two months ago, the same materials were brought to the Justice Commission and to the General Assembly of Turkey, with an understanding, with another context, to the tail of running the judiciary through the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. During negotiations at the General Assembly and during negotiations with the Justice Commission, we all witnessed scenes that were not exactly desirable. We, the Republican People's Party and opposition groups, in fact, suggested that this motion would not be processed because it was contrary to the first three articles that could not even be offered to change the Constitution, because it had eliminated the rule of law. In our thesis, we have repeatedly stated that the principle of separation of forces is not only the precondition of parliamentary democracies, but also the precondition of the state of law, that judicial independence has become an indispensable principle of the legal state, that both the principle of separation of forces and the principle of judicial independence are clearly included in our constitution and the principle of judicial independence, that law enforcement and judicial authority are separated from one another in the beginning of the Constitution, and that the matter of judicial authority will be used by independent courts on behalf of the Turkish nation. We didn't just agree that no matter how many votes he received -- whether 40 per cent or 50 per cent -- we repeated over and over and over again that his sovereignty, according to the Constitution, is not just a right to exercise sovereignty, that his sovereignty cannot be left to any body, to any person, to any class, and to be used by the channel of organs shown in the Constitution. However, the motion, since it changed the basic qualities of the republic, was a proposal that could not even be proposed, because there was a bill, and because it eliminated the principle of separation of forces and the principle of judicial independence, we could not discuss it, while the Justice Commission unfortunately saw flying kicks, flying punches. Yes, we witnessed the same scenes as this law was being discussed in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, while the law was being discussed, the fists spoke in parliament. Not just with a majority of fingers, but with a punch, with a kick, with a nose, with an unprecedented way in democracy, you passed them through the General Assembly, didn't you? You passed these substances. Why did you do that? You did it to cover corruption investigations of December 17th and December 25th, which reached the political power of Turkey's republic's history, to avoid public opinion of shoeboxes and bank vaults, to disband the judiciary, to prevent the judiciary from going through these investigations with determination. In doing so, you have made us a third-rate democratic country, both in the press and in the outside press, unable to internalize the state of law, unable to establish its democracy. What happened here, the fists flying in the air, the kicks flying in here, the noses breaking in here, and the blood being spilled here, not only in Turkey, but on the front page of the world press. So, what happened, dear friends, I ask you, what happened two months later? We have a Constitutional Court ruling. Look, please, the Constitutional Court has agreed that the Republican People's Party and opposition parties will not be able to discuss this law in this parliament. The Constitutional Court said that HSYK is not a governing body, that the administration cannot be transformed into a promotion and a transfer office, that it cannot be converted into a second secretary of the Ministry of Justice, that the regulation is clearly contrary to Article 159 of the Constitution. So, this is the Constitutional Court's decision. Now, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary here, and I'd like to ask the members of the Justice and Development Party, as well as the members of the group, so do you feel a slight rash? Do you think you owe the Turkish people an apology? Do you intend to come out here and apologize to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, both to the opposition parties and to the people of Turkey, whom you have sworn allegiance to the Constitution? Otherwise, democracy is a tool for us, not a goal. We can't just... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... we've done our job, we've done our job, the cancellation doesn't go back, we've covered up those corruption investigations. Are you planning to sit back and forth here? I think the Minister, the Justice Commission and the Deputy Justice and Development Party, should come out here and apologize. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0155par0128	Thank you. Mr Mehmet Erdogan will speak on the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0156par0132	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the amendment motion we submitted in Article 90 of Law Bill 592. I hereby salute your high council. First of all, I wish that our Turkish brothers, Musul, Kerukuk, Telafer, Tuzhurmatu, and ISIS terrorist, should be shown the necessary sensitivity to taking care of our consul and his staff. May God help our Turkmen brothers. Of course, at this point, I would also like to point out that if we don't take care of our Turkmen brothers there today and make sure that they live in their homeland, we must remember that tomorrow our own security will also be threatened. I've expressed it in my previous conversations. Making many laws does not ensure justice, making righteous and lasting laws and making laws equal to all others can bring justice. The power has to put the hat in front of it and think about it. Trust in the judgment has sunk in 12 years. If this is a success, then this success belongs to you, the power, you can brag all you want, you can brag all you want. But to say that such a lack of confidence in the judiciary is a success is probably a mockery of the human mind. Then this failure, this mistrust, is your creation. The way back from here is to sit down, not with the appointment of a prosecutor, but with the judicial system and the procedure legislation, to put the penal code on the right ground. Democracy is a regime of institutions and rules. Lately, institutions have been pretty worn out. Now, the judiciary is being debated as a whole, all judicial decisions, especially the Constitutional Court, are being discussed, the rules are being discussed. Because you keep changing the rules as the game continues. There's a law being passed overnight to block the prosecution against the Undersecretary of MIT. The law is passed overnight to legitimize the Imra talks. These examples are possible to increase. Of course, it also undermines the reputation of the Legislature, the Veteran Assembly. The condition of the executive is the same. What we haven't thought of in years, what we can't imagine is coming true. We've lived in the university exam, in the courtroom, in the SBS, in the police test, in the courtroom, in the judge's exam; we've lived in your transfer. To ignore all the illegalities and attacks, the administration has become yet another insensitivity. Diyarbakır is holding a flagless rally, which is not prevented by the execution, but cannot be punished by the judiciary. Our consulate is occupied by terrorists, our consul and consulate staff, our truck drivers are taken hostage; there is no sound. What's the point of the laws we make if you can't run institutions and rules in such critical times? What's the point of making the best laws in the world unless it's applied in the best possible way? Power is not a place to make excuses. Power is the place to ensure the peace and well-being of society by applying the laws we make here in the best possible way. The power is a place for our nation, our state, by using the powers and powers vested in you by the law. The power is a place to protect the reputation of our government, our nation, by using the power and power vested in you. Power doesn't just give you strength, it also gives you responsibility. In this regard, power is not a place to lie down; it is a place to fulfill the responsibilities you have been given; it is a place to remove the people from the turmoil they are in today. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0157par0139	Thank you. I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "The President of the Board of the Board" in Article 90 of the current law bill 592 is changed to "With the President of the Board." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0158par0146	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0157par0147	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0159par0148	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0160par0149	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0157par0150	I'm having it read. The change was intended to make the narrative clear. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions in Article 91, which I shall have read and process in order: the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The current bill, 592 rows, is frame 91. 2 in the article. We propose and supply that the last word of the bendin be changed to..... Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Kamer Young Sinan Aydın Aygün Ali Haydar Proposes Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the draftment of Article 91 of the current 592 rows of the bill be changed by choice. Erol Dora Idris Baluken Nazmi Gür I'm going to read the current motion and process it. It's the 91st of Bill 592. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Bill text. Scholar Light Seyfetttin Yilmaz Ali Öz Emin Çınar S. Nevzat Don't Fear Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0161par0175	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0157par0176	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0162par0177	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0157par0178	Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Ilk, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0163par0180	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 91 of Law Bill 592 under discussion. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, this is a clause that envisions some changes in the original form of the article on the creation of apartments in the Supreme Council of Judges Prosecutors, the selection of office heads and the mandates. However, when we look at it, unfortunately, this arrangement is part of Law No. 6087, dated December 11, 2010. An amendment to the Law, which was issued on September 12, 2010 after the referendum. During the referendum, we changed the Law by emphasising the will of the nation. You brought it here, so we shared it with you, and we warned you. What is done is wrong, it is an arrangement for direct politicisation and execution of your high judgment, which is not true. You didn't believe it, it's been a while, and three years later, you changed it back yourself. When? Two months ago. Mr. Ozturk just expressed himself. And we said, "Don't do it." But there was supposed to be this kind of turmoil that day, because the agenda of the public today was full of corruption and bribery claims, which filled up its sixth month, and it had to be closed down immediately, and it had to be removed from the duties of prosecutors and judges, and it had to be stopped by corruption that touched the power and the families of some people in the government cabinet, and the purpose became subject, and the Constitutional Court declared that the arrangement on this matter was wrong, and now you're bringing it back. Dear friends, before it was wrong, now it's wrong, or it's both wrong. Come on, let's stop making mistakes. Let's stop running this grand coven to set things straight. For him, this arrangement is not a proper arrangement, but also an arrangement that will bring up the decision to be carried out and to lose its independence. That's what our motion is intended for. Today, unfortunately, media reports have reported that ISIS (Iraq Damascus Islamic State) has been banned from the Turkish Embassy in Mosul (Musul) and taken hostage. What kind of judgment is that? If it was forbidden, then why did you start an investigation last week by the Bureau of Criminals Against the Constitutional Order? If you were going to ban this ban two or three days ago, why did you bring it after Mr. Prime Minister's warning to the media? Aman ha, don't write too much about this ISIS. Dear lawmakers, if you play so much on the judiciary, if you make so many changes about the judiciary, you will be able to prevent a judicial decision today that will discredit the state of the Republic of Turkey and undermine the conscience of the Turkish nation, and bring in news, publishing bans. No Internet, no television, no newspapers. What do we do? Let ISIS feed, let him shoot where he feeds, and let the Turkish people go back to sleep. I can't, I can't, I can't! Again, the mistake that will be made... with these arrangements, the conscience of this nation will continue to bleed, the wounds won't close, they'll grow. For once, I warn you, the government must work in this direction, whatever the Turkish nation's attitude should be, whatever the national will has sent us here for. If this country is getting hurt today as a result of your aid to a terrorist organization, I believe you'll find it when you consult your consciences. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0164par0187	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the draftment of Article 91 of the current 592 rows of the bill be changed by choice. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0165par0194	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0164par0195	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0166par0196	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0164par0197	Read the reason. The change was intended to make the narrative clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 592 rows, is frame 91. 2 in the article. We propose and supply that the last word of the bendin be changed to..... Kamer Young (Tunceli) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0167par0206	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0164par0207	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0168par0208	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0164par0209	Mr. Kamer Young. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0169par0212	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion on the 91st Amendment of Bill 592. My respects to all of you. Congressmans, actually Ali İhsan İkturk just told us about this incident. Now, after Bekir Bozdağ became Minister of Justice, he was given a post. On December 17th and December 25th, it was the duty to dismiss judges and prosecutors who were caught in the act of stealing, caught red-handed, investigating people who were caught in the money. As soon as he arrived, he changed the judges in this relevant apartment of the HSYK. After that, he dismissed judges and prosecutors who identified these thefts and corruption. After that, we said, "This is against the Constitution."
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0170par0215	Yeah, why don't you account for your son's apartments, your son's?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0169par0216	The appointment of the Board of Judges and Prosecutors should be in the HSYK, not in the Ministry of Justice, in the appointment of the Court of Judges and Prosecutors, at work, to appoint offices, to establish courts. Bekir, because I said so, he went and offered me 20 billion reparations against me. If you win, it's forbidden to you. You should know that.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0171par0217	Why are you opening it?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0170par0218	You're suing.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0169par0219	Now, what did he do? He did his duty. After he did it, he changed the judges, changed the prosecutors, and then you filed the motion to investigate. If it's December 17th and December 25th, why did you file an investigation motion? Why did you relieve these ministers? Why did these guys quit? You're always in a tent. So you were caught red-handed here. Now, your purpose is not justice, it's not justice. I, my friends, have been in that Parliament for over thirty years. I've never seen a government that forgives thieves as much as the AKP government, forgives zoning corruption, forgives tax traffickers! You won't be so mature, and you'll pay dearly for it. Look, gentlemen, the Musul Turkish consulate is Turkey's Chankaya. Turkey's Çankaya (Kankaya) is now under occupation. A hundred-odd citizens of the Republic of Turkey are prisoners, and you are responsible for them as prisoners. You're the one who sent the weapons to the prisoners. And you're the one who gave me the weapons that killed 1,700 innocent people. Gentlemen, sirs, a man has a sense of responsibility. Don't you have a conscience when all these people are being slaughtered? People of the AKP have not been accused so strongly of sitting on this bench at this time. Why are you guys so quiet?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0172par0223	Watch your language!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0173par0224	Your son hasn't been charged with this much. Why don't you answer for him?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0169par0225	Now, didn't Bekir Bozdağ change the prosecutors here a while ago? Look, they brought in a prosecutor. On December 17th, December 25th, the prosecutor said, "I declare these phone calls void." He made a non-retraceable decision. It was never seen in this world's most primitive homeland. Do you think with these fingers you'll forgive the biggest thefts, corruption, dishonor...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0173par0227	What an asshole!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0169par0228	You can't destroy these thefts...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0173par0229	Why don't you talk straight?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0169par0230	These fingers will break. You can't account for these fingers, you can't give them to your children.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0174par0231	Why don't you answer for your son? And do you answer for your child, your child?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0169par0232	So, you're bringing in this coven, you're dealing with empty things. Look, you just brought a pardon, a law. There's a law, you bring them in, you argue on the commissions. Guys, you're attacking me a lot. Last week, I told them that a loan from the People's Bank was given to a company at $575 million and it went bankrupt. Ayþenur, the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, told me: "Sir, don't open them..."
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0175par0235	And what kind of language are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0169par0236	Aren't I going to open up the thefts? He's punishing me. What about you guys, what are you gonna do?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0175par0237	Mr. President, what kind of talk is he to the presidency?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0169par0238	Look, you can't go public tomorrow. Look, you can't go public tomorrow. Ben, get out, tomorrow...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0175par0239	What are you gonna do? Do you travel?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0169par0240	Look, you destroyed Turkey, destroyed it with its state, destroyed it with its military, destroyed it with honor. Today, your land is occupied, your citizens occupied, you do not defend their rights, your conscience does not ache? Today, members of ISIS who killed 1,700 innocent people are behind you. You gave them the weapons of the people who killed them.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0175par0241	And how do you know that?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0169par0242	Those people's sins are on your neck. You're gonna pay for this. Of course, if I had the time, I'd give you these in more detail.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0175par0245	We'll give you more detail, come...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0169par0246	Yeah, you don't mean anything by attacking me. Is your conscience clear?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0176par0247	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0177par0248	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0169par0249	If your conscience is clear... but this people will bring it from your nose.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0177par0250	The motion...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0178par0251	Let's go! Let's go!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0177par0252	Mr. Can, please...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0178par0253	Let's go! You're out of here!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0177par0254	Mr. Can, please... please...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0179par0255	Why would I walk?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0177par0256	Mr. Young, thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0179par0257	Mr. President, will you step in?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0177par0258	I did, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0179par0259	But I mean...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0177par0260	Now, look, everybody says the same thing to each other.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0180par0261	Get out of here! Sit down!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0177par0262	Mr. Can, please...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0180par0263	Let's go!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0181par0264	Who are you? You're a sinful man.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0177par0265	Mr. Young, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0181par0266	Is that a thing?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0177par0267	Thank you, Mr. Young. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0181par0269	The decision is sufficient, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit08spe0177par0270	Yes, I will. Those who don't agree... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0177par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 91, the decision of Mr. Kamer Young and his friends had not been reached in the number of votes. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 592 from where we left off. Commission? Here. Government? Here. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 92: There's a five-minute vote, Reverends. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the bill of law 592 is adopted under Article 92 and changed to the terms of the declaration. Erol Dora İdris Balüken Nazmi Gür I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 92 of the 592 Orders Numbered Legislature. We request that the Article be removed from the Bill text. Scholar Light Seyfetttin Yilmaz Ali Öz Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0182par0026	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0177par0027	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0183par0028	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0177par0029	Adana MP Seyfettin Yilmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0184par0032	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the Turkish Criminal Code and to the amendment motion to Article 92 of the Law for Change in Some Laws. I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, at the end of 12 years, unfortunately, none of AKP's insights and policies in domestic and foreign policy have been in the right place. We're facing a process where it's impossible to talk about justice, his justice, my kin's justice, as long as we're looking at justice. Four years ago, five years ago, some people were listening to our phones; as a government, do what is required by law. When you said these phones, you didn't go over them in the process that you considered against yourself. You didn't think that there was a place in the law for these wiretaps, is there a legal element of crime here? At this point, even when the bagel shop's phones were being tapped, you went into a supporting group of studies -- you wanted to go over them -- but when December 17th and 25th came up with the corruption of the century, our phones were being bugged. You went through a screaming process. Now, dear lawmakers, I ask you clearly from here: is the Prime Minister of a country right to be Prime Minister in this country if he can't protect himself, if he can't protect the institutions of the state, if he can't protect the most sensitive information of the state? Now, think of a prime minister who runs this country for 12 years, and on TV, he says: I'm resting as Prime Minister of the country, the President of the Constitutional Court is listening. I'll understand if it's Ahmet Aga in the village and so on. So, don't you ever think of the AKP Group as: Mr. Prime Minister, we've stood up for you as a parliamentary group. You've managed this country for 12 years. If you can't protect yourself, if you can't protect the President of this country, if you can't protect the President of the Constitutional Court, if you can't protect the most sensitive cosmic rooms in the state, if you can't protect your knowledge, then, Mr. Prime Minister, haven't you thought of doing it for 12 years?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0185par0037	Let's get it over with.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0184par0038	So, now, today, you're going to go through this, shouting, Mr. Metiner, no parallel structure, no community, no Hashishhi, you're going to go through this, you're going to go through this. Yesterday, the Minister of Justice is taken from the Ministry of Justice, where he says: "There is an imam of the judge, an imam of the judiciary." I mean, I'm not the opposition MP who said that, or Ahmet Aga in the Shakirpaşa neighborhood of Adana. Minister of Justice, if there's an imam of the judiciary, take it out, and he'll do what he has to do. Today, when a Minister of Justice touches him, when the tip touches the government, when he touches the minister, when he touches the minister, when he says the imam of the judge, they ask him, "What Ministry of Justice have you done in a year? What Ministry of Justice have you done for many years?" Now, valued lawmakers, consider this: The situation you have brought the country into is obvious. If a Prime Minister can't protect himself today, he can't protect the Turkish flag.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0186par0040	Come on!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0187par0041	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0184par0042	In Mosul, the Turkish state is occupied, the Turkish soil is occupied, and with what logic do you expect it to protect it?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0188par0043	Ekmeleddin will protect Ihsanoglu!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0184par0044	But remember, if those trucks that are leaving today have the blood of the Turks, if they have the blood of those Turks, if the blood of those innocent Muslim people has been spilled, you will pay for it in this world and in the afterlife. These things will come out, nothing will remain secret. We have been telling you from time to time: You will be righteous, you will believe in the truth, you will be for the truth. As long as you're not one of these, you can do a hand gesture, you can say a word, you can keep swearing...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0188par0045	We've got it all.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0184par0046	But there is a place where we will swear, that justice and justice of the Lord God will surely come to pass. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0189par0049	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the bill of law 592 is adopted under Article 92 and changed to the terms of the declaration. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0190par0056	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0189par0057	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0191par0058	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0189par0059	Mr. Buldan, should I have the motive read?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0192par0060	Mr. President of Reason, every time the motive is read.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0189par0061	Okay, fine. The change was intended to make the narrative clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 93, I have them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 592-line bill of law be changed in the form of the following. Erol Dora Idris Baluken Nazmi Gür Gülser Yıldırım Abdullah Levent Çüzel Mardin İstanbul I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 93 of the 592 Ordered Bill of Law. We demand and demand that the Article be removed from the Bill text. S. Nevzat Don't be afraid Oktay Vural Emin Çınar Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0193par0080	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0189par0081	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0194par0082	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0189par0083	Mr. Faruk Bal, you're on your way.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0195par0085	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are nine. I'd like to talk to you about the court's restraining order. Now, we see that the Justice and Development Party in Iraq considers the events in two ways: One, the raid of our consulate in Mosul, and our consul general, his colleagues around him, Turkish citizens, are being held hostage by ISIS terrorist organization. He's got some work to do with it. We support his work on this as we do as the National Party of Action. So, the consulate building in Mosul is Turkish soil, the flag there is Turkish flag, the ISIS terrorist organization that downloaded it. In contrast, let the state of the Republic of Turkey do whatever it has to do, including armed intervention, including diplomatic routes. The second thing I'd like to talk about now is that there's violence outside of this in Iraq, a Turkmen massacre. Half an hour ago, there was a call, a massacre at Tuzhurmatu, Kerkuk, Mosul, Telafer, and Telafer. The Justice and Development Party doesn't hear this scream, doesn't see it, and doesn't make any moves on it. In addition, Mr. Prime Minister says: "Don't go after this, don't mix it up, don't talk, don't write, don't draw, don't draw, don't draw." Dear friends, a nation has two most important dimensions of its existence as a nation. One will suffer together; if there is pain in Turkmeneli, we will feel it in our heart, we will live it together, we will live it together, we will realize that we are a nation, we will heal it. In addition, we will enjoy joy, compassion, and compassion together. Now, for the Turkish nation, a 9. The High Criminal Court of Justice there is a court order that prevents our citizens from hearing the elements that they can live with in grief, in sorrow, in pride, in joy, in the existence of the nation. There's no Attorney General here. I'm here to complain to that judge that the real constitutional offense is this judge. Can such a unnecessary decision be made? As my people, I need to do this, see how my fellow citizens suffer, how their heads are cut off, how their blood flows, and pray to help them, and curse the curse, and arms aid, and financial aid. If I don't know it, if I don't see it, if I can't hear it, how can I become a nation, how can I say it's part of me? So let's put it on the record, and I'll follow it. From the judge who made this court decision, if someone pressured him, I'm going to press him before God and before the people.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0196par0093	Thank you, Mr. Honey. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0197par0095	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit09spe0196par0096	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0196par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 93, there was not enough decision-making in the vote of Mr. Faruk Bal and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. They didn't get along. Electronically... I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 592 from where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 592-line bill of law be changed in the form of the following. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0198par0016	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0196par0017	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0199par0018	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0196par0019	Read the reason, please. The change was intended to make the narrative clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 94. I'll have them read and processed in order: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the declaration of Kurul (Kurul) in Article 94 of the current law bill 592 is changed in the form of the General Assembly. Erol Dora Idris Baluken Nazmi Gür Seeing 592 S. It's 94 of the Bill of Law. We offer and propose that the word "also" in the context of the word "also" and "also change" in the form of the word "also" in the form of the word "also" in the article. Faruk Bal Lütfü Türkkan Mesut Dedeoğlu Alim Light Zuhal Topman Adnan Chiefk Ugly I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, number 592, is 94. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Riza Özturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Kamer Young Mehmet Haberal Bedii Süheyl Batum Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0200par0045	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0196par0046	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0201par0047	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0196par0048	Eskişehir MP Süheyl Batum, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0202par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we all remember the clauses of this law that came after Article 90, including the clause that we are now discussing. You brought these amendments to a law that you've made here before, and the Constitutional Court has annulled it. Dear friends -- you'll remember -- while we were changing the provisions that we brought in earlier, after the 90th Amendment, we all told Mr. Bekir Bozdağ here and you here that the HSYK Law clearly contradicts the Constitution. So there's no need to be a minister, there's no need to be a lawyer, there's too much discrepancy. Not just us, but the Turkish Bar Association, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. The president, the Vice President, the lawyers, the barrooms, they all said it was clearly against the Constitution, and at the time, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, as Minister, came out, and told us this: no, no, no, no, it's not. The 159th article of the Constitution is open, we can make any law we want, we have discretion.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0203par0053	There are rejects, too.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0202par0054	How come you didn't see the obvious contradiction that even a law school student with the usual intelligence would know, even a first-year student would know? How come Minister Bekir Bozdağ didn't see it? And the Constitutional Court cancelled it on 10/4/2014, and they're telling the truth, and the regulations they brought are clearly against the Constitution. Dear friends, now, when you're doing the HSYK Act, you'll remember, the evidence has been blacked out, and you've brought in a law that the Minister will be in control of all things, in order for the judges and prosecutors to be replaced. We said: it is against the Constitution. You said, "Let it be, the kingdom is a day's kingdom, and we can get what we want." After that, we told you as we removed the special authority courts. Dear friends, for what it's worth, you've got some pretty obvious discrepancies. Once again, I think this is going to be one of the last conversations -- there are very obvious discrepancies. There's something incredible. People have been tried with false evidence, even the Prime Minister's Special Advisor -- I don't know if he is among you right now -- a plot was set up. He said, "One of you told me, but I look at you, you ignore it, it's like a violation of the Constitution." Where is it, dear? What have you done in Turkish law for four years, five years, six years, seven years in prison for our friends here, even now? But if we ask, we've done the Penal Code. We won't be able to tell our children. But I want to stress one thing in particular: this is the Parliament, the Parliament of the Republic of Turkey, the Assembly. What? The state of the Republic of Turkey. If I ask you, what is a state? The first-class students of the law school say that the state will become what we call a certain piece of land; there will be a community of people living above it, called the nation; and there will be a superior, sovereign, effective force to rule it. But it's not enough, it's not enough, what's going to happen? The power with this organised sovereignty will not be based on arbitrary or brute force or special instructions from the prime ministers. Based on what? To the law. Thanks to you, the state of the Republic of Turkey is no longer a state, it has become an organisation, it has become a gang. Why? Because he has no law, because you have changed his law according to the instructions of Bekir Bozdağ, the Prime Minister, God help you! My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0204par0060	Thank you, Mr. Batum. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Seeing 592 S. It's 94 of the Bill of Law. We offer and propose that the word "also" in the context of the word "also" and "also change" in the form of the word "also" in the form of the word "also" in the article. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0205par0067	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0204par0068	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0206par0069	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0204par0070	Read the reason, please. The motion is made in accordance with the lawmaking technique. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of Kurul (Kurul) in Article 94 of the current law bill 592 is changed in the form of the General Assembly. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0207par0079	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0204par0080	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0208par0081	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0204par0082	Read the reason, please. The change was intended to make the narrative clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 95. I'll have them read and processed in order: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 95 of the 592 rows of the law shall be replaced in the form of... and........................................................................................ Erol Dora Idris Baluken Nazmi Gür 592 S. S. 95 of the Bill of Law. md. The 6087 S. Law 18. We propose and propose that the article be added in objective measurements, after the declaration of the Article (2) will be irreparable. Faruk Bal Ali Öz Seyfettin Yılmaz Zühal Topcu Alim Ilm Mesut Dedeoğlu I'm going to read the current motion and process it.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0209par0101	We're pulling the motion.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0204par0102	Okay, we got him. Then, the last reading motion... Reverend Commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0210par0105	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0204par0106	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0211par0107	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0204par0108	Mersin MP Ali Öz. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0212par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on Article 95 of Law Bill 592. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, in the last decade, almost all basic laws have been changed. Legal changes will, of course, be made to answer society's changing needs and maintain social peace, but our objection is that the right to law enforcement is very sloppy and unpredictive. With the power of the ruling numerical majority and the resources provided by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Civil Charter of Turkey is very humblingly using legislature activities. During this period, the basic laws were passed, and the laws of the Turkish law, which we had forgotten the number of, and the bag of laws, were practically patched up. In the process of making laws, the government is preparing drafts of the law with non-participation, conjunctural responses, and is impatiently asking the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to adopt law. However, what needs to be done is to patiently follow the implementation of the laws passed by the Turkish Grand National Assembly and to make a new arrangement with all parties if there is a problem. Those who commit illegal acts in the state of law are tried by the courts and sentenced by the legal system. As far as we're concerned, I'd like to express my regret that Turkey is no longer a state of law. It appears that prosecutors and judges have been deprived of initiative, that law enforcement has been brought into action for social peace and peace instead of law. The continuation of this notion that provokes polarization in society will create a greater chaos. In a country dominated by law, those who act on behalf of the state must know that justice in a country is the only and only legal system. The judge, prosecutors and lawyers, who constitute the rule of justice, should be able to serve independently as collateral for justice. But from the moment he comes to power, the power that determines law, peace, peace, justice, justice, public order itself today is a concept that paralyzes the judicial system and, depending on it, causes chaos to society. The AKP's government is trying to establish its own judge, its own prosecutor, and ultimately instead of universal law, its own law. We all know about the talks in Congress. While making the laws here, I did, I did. The attitude of the AKP government brought the country to this point today. The government, which brought the commission talks to an end, could not argue that it was a healthy and just lawmaker who ignored the rising voice of opposition during parliamentary talks. The court that you founded in Habur will also reveal how lame your understanding of the witch hunt, which you started in court after the corruption operation, is. Courts must decide on behalf of the Turkish nation. But thanks to you, it is not possible to talk about the nationality of many recent decisions and the conformity of universal law. Clearly, therefore, your view of judgment is not universal. Your view of the judiciary is based on covering up your staffing crimes, protecting what's yours. Judgement, however, should not separate people from us, without us, and should be independent. Although institutional inspectors in this article will be selected for at least five years by being appointed by prosecutors and judges who have served for at least five years, it is a true reflection of your desire to appoint only those who are to be predicted by the board, and those who are close to you, and those who will do what you want. On this occasion, in the laws you have made, I urge you to pass these laws, lift your fingers, and salute your great delegation, thinking of all 76 million people in this country.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0213par0120	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 95 of the 592 rows of the law shall be replaced in the form of... and........................................................................................ Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0214par0127	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0213par0128	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0215par0129	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0216par0130	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0213par0131	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to make the narrative clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are agreed. There are two motions in Article 96, both are the same property; I will have them read and processed at the same time, and I will promise those who have the motion: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the declaration of the law, which is in Article 96 of the 592 rows in question, should be changed in the form of a similar form. Erol Dora Idris Baluken Nazmi Gür Seeing 592 S. 96 of the Numbered Legislature. Article 6087 S. Your law is 16. Article 1 of the article. We propose and propose that the word "e" (e) be removed from the text, and the word "like" be added. Faruk Bal Lütfü Türkkan Mesut Dedeoğlu Zühal Topcu Ali Şim Imlight Ali Halaman Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0217par0150	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0213par0151	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0218par0152	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0213par0153	Adana MP Ali Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0219par0155	Mr. President, thank you. Law number 592, Article 104, a law which has been insisted on, has been going on for ten days. And I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made in Article 96 of this law. On behalf of the National Movement Party and myself, I salute the General Assembly and our nation with respect and love. Although the law is 104, it's usually repeated. Laws that have been passed before are now being upgraded. It's more like the logic of the laws that increase crime, punishment, task and authority, politics, the government's mandate, more political, personal, initiative, than institutionalisation. Despite the fact that these laws have been passed, they don't respond much in society, even though they've been out for a long time. Because if he did, the trade shouldn't be so corrupt, it shouldn't increase so much. Turkey, where terrorism increases, noise, fighting, unhappiness, injustice, injustice, torpedoing, bribes, a crackdown Turkey, a period where the flag goes down, the Istrillal Anthem is not read, the Musul (Musul) is being held hostage by the embassies in Kerkuk. Now, because of the governments in the past years, we grew up realizing the poetry of Sheikh Shamil in the Caucasus, especially after the Battle of Salvation, which is outside the borders of this national Misak. Again, we grew up looking at their poetry, their life, by noticing the struggle of Tatar Mustafa Cemiloglu. Again, we grew up in Azerbaijan following the struggle of the late Messenger. So, in Crimea, we noticed the poems of Ismail Gaspara. Then, in Kerkuk, in Mosul, we saw their zeal at the point of protecting, guarding their homeland, moving forward, saying the Iraqi Turkmen's Front, the Menim quarter. But, at the point where we're here today, the government, the government, the government, has not been able to help and help these noble groups, the clusters, the PKK, as much as it has helped the Iraqi Turkmen Front, which has come to the agenda today, to prevent the flag from falling down there. So I would say, today, I would like to thank you all, with respect to the great Turkish nation, all of you, for not speaking about a policy that is so humiliated by the Turkish race -- although we have not spoken about the motion that we have made in this Article of the Turkish race -- and that I condemn the government from here.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0220par0161	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Reason: The change is intended to make the narrative clear. I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions in article 97, which I shall have read and process in order: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the sign shall be changed after the declaration of the judge and prosecutor in the 2nd chapter of the 592th article of the current law bill. Erol Dora Idris Baluken Nazmi Gür Seeing 592 S. 97 of the Numbered Legislature. Article 6087 S. It's the 19th of the law. Article 2. The last sentence of his joke is to be removed from the text, and the names of the five candidates who received the most votes for each empty membership are reported to the TBMM. The General Assembly of the TBM is selected by the two-thirds majority of these candidates and the number of the two-thirds of the majority in three rounds, unless they have a two-thirds majority. The addition of the sentences will be drawn between them. Supply and offer. Faruk Bal Lütfü Türkkan Mesut Dedeoğlu Zuhal Top Guy Alim Light S. Nevzat Don't Fear Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0221par0181	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0220par0182	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0222par0183	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0220par0184	Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0223par0186	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I bid you all good evening and salute your grand delegation. Dear friends, the judiciary is not viewed as a package or a bag, but as a state where it is treated as a fifth - grade country. The state of modern law looks at the justice mechanism with a pair of glasses. What you're doing is not a facility of law or justice. It's the conquest of the last strongholds you can't take in our judicial system that produce justice only in the name of independence and neutrality. Dear lawmakers, the AKP has many shortcomings -- we're saying this on every platform -- but I think the biggest thing is that it doesn't consult with opposition parties or different parties. This Parliament is made up of power and opposition. The intelligent authorities are the ones who do not hurt the opposition, but who take advantage of their differing views by keeping them in the process. What kind of arrogance and contempt is his idea of how he puts you in a mood to discredit everything the opposition has done and to see everything he's done as harmful? There are many examples of this today, but the latest example is the nomination of Mr Ekmeleddin Ihsanoğlu. In God's name, it's becoming an operation to discredit the island.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0224par0189	Good luck, good luck.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0223par0190	Not much, but just two years ago, you were describing Mr Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu's election as Secretary General as an AKP success. Again, another example, the opposition candidate said, "You didn't get lazy, you went down to the base, you went up to the roof." Oh, what's wrong with having fun, dear friends? So the two parties who thought differently came together to see how we could resolve this issue in terms of compromise, without causing new crises, sir, not only did they visit each other, but they visited more or less all the political parties, outside the parliament, and visiting large NGOs. What did you say? Instead of congratulating this pluralistic quest for democracy, you go door to door. So, if necessary, you go door-to-door to obtain consent. But what did you do, dear AKP MPs, what did you do? Let alone the different opinions of political parties, even the smaller parties outside the parliament, your official spokesman, did he get 1 per cent of the vote, and did he get 1 per thousand votes? It's probably not the search to run the democratic regime together, but the only man the AKP has ever done is to criticize the show. You show the same bigotry under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as you know, runs by commissions. You see commissions as a burden on the work commissions represented by the opposition, and if possible, you will remove all commissions. On December 17th and 25th, you are constantly making excuses not to form the agreed-upon Commission to investigate corruption issues. You've created a censorship, a veto board, just like the September 12th junta, who will enter Parliament, who won't. Like the veto. Why? Because they've made their point. Dear friends, you will live in Turkey and will not reveal your view of the 17-25 December (December), the biggest corruption claim of the century. What's it gonna say, flowers, bugs, butterflies? Is that what you want? No, what you want, dear friends, is to leave this commission to the post of the presidential election, to get it out of the way. It's not just that. You've passed the National Intelligence Agency Act. In this law, you said: "We will set up a permanent commission that will oversee the employment services of the national will, which will make suggestions." Where is this commission? Still, the Justice and Development Party didn't sign up for this commission. Look, we're under fire, we're on fire. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This crisis in our neighbours will be brought to Turkey, but this commission will make recommendations on national security issues, not through you. We love democracy, pluralism. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0199	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and recommend that the sign be changed after the statement of the judge and prosecutor in Article 2 of Article 97 of the proposed bill 592. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0226par0206	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0207	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0227par0208	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0209	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to make the narrative clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two proposals in Article 98. I'm having them read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and demand that the declaration of the law, which is in Article 98 of the 592 rows of the proposed bill, be changed to the appropriate form. Erol Dora Idris Baluken Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 592 S. 98 of the Numbered Legislature. Article 6087 S. You have a 29th law. Article 2. In his joke, we offer and offer to remove the crop from the text. Faruk Bal Lütfü Türkkan Mesut Dedeoğlu Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0228par0228	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0229	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0229par0230	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0231	I'm reading the reason: This motion has been made so that matter can be understood better. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply the necessary change of the terms of Article 98 of the current law bill 592. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0230par0240	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0241	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0231par0242	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0243	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to make the narrative clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. There's a motion in Article 99 that I'm going to read and process. 592 S. S Law Bill 99. Article 6087 S. Your law is 36. We propose and propose the removal of the word "to be carried out" from the text, which is found in the (1) joke of the article, and the addition of the word "to be done" in its place. Faruk Bal Lütfü Türkkan Mesut Dedeoğlu Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0232par0256	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0257	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0233par0258	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0259	Mr. Halaçoglu, do you want me to read the motive?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0234par0260	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0261	I'm reading the reason: The motion was made to make the disciplinary investigation more understandable with the verb to be done. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. There's a motion in Article 100, I'm processing it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and offer to replace the term "also" with the statement taken out of the text of Article 3 of the 100th article of the 592 Numbered Bill. Faruk Bal Lütfi Türkkan Mesut Dedeoğlu Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0235par0274	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0275	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0236par0276	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0277	Do I make you read the motive?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0237par0278	Yeah...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0279	Motive... Reason: This motion has been made to make matter more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 101 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders Numbered Bill 101. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Faruk Bal Ali Öz Reşat Right Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Şandir Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0238par0291	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0292	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0239par0293	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0294	The reason, please. Reason: With this clause, new staffs are requested to be committed. The benchmarks will be used mainly in the litigation courts. Since there is no infrastructure for the regulation of the court of law and the politicisation of the State and the Supreme Court, there is no need for the staff. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause can be discussed on the motions the commission has already attended, and a number of motions may be submitted in this article. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the commission. If the commission joins in the motion, mostly with 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Now, I'm going to read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the addition of the following clause and other substances to the current Law Bill 592 rows. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Muzafer Citizen of Nurettin Canikli Ali Aydınlıoğlu Erkan Akçay Özgür Special Selçuk Özdağ Vural Kakuncu Hasan Fehmi Kinay Tülay Babushcu Ali Ashım Uğur Aydemir Recai Berber Pervin Buldan İlknur Denizli Sakine Öz Mehmet Cemal Öztaylan The following temporary clause has been added to the Law on Unemployment No. 4447, dated 102-25/8/999. THE LAST MADDE 12- Operating in the area of stone coal mining and lignite mining in Manisa Province; A) As of 13/5/2014 in the Eynez mine business, the last month's net payment is paid by the Minister of Labor and Social Security on the basis of the last month on the basis of Articles No. 5/5/2006 and Article 4 (a) of Article 4 of the General Health Insurance Act (a) to those who are insured or those who have the same rights as under Article 34 of Law 5510. There will be no taxes or cuts on these payments. B) Eynez, Atabaca and Light mines are paid monthly from the Fund, as of 13/5/2014, as part of Article 4 of Law 5510 (a) to those who are insured as part of the period of the closed work; as a part of the period of the 25th article of the Law (6331), the payment specified by the employer is collected from the Fund on a monthly basis of legal interest. Commission, do you agree with the motion, mostly?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0240par0322	We agree because of the majority requirement sought in Articles 45 and 87 of our Civil Charter.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0323	I have nothing to say to that.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0240par0324	Okay, thanks.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0325	The government isn't asked. Well, now, there's no demand to talk about matter, no question-and-answer process, but there's a motion that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current 592 rows bill is 102. In the last line of the Interim Article 12 (a) joke, we would like to have it replaced by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, replacing it with the Department of Labor and Social Security. Mehmet Erdoğan Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu S. Nevzat Korkmaz Seyfettin Yilmaz Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0241par0334	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0335	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0242par0336	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0225par0337	Mr. Erkan Akçay, the Manisa MP.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0243par0339	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion to the esteemed MPs. I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to say that we accept and support the offer that has just been requested to be added to Article 102, which is our signature. After we've said this from the beginning, it's a big debt to be sure to deliver what we really want to say in these few minutes. Dear friends, as we all know, on May 13, 2014, a major mining disaster took place in Soma, and 301 of our miners lost their lives, and more than a month went by that day. Just after the accident, some government officials and some Justice and Development Party headquarters made promises and promises. The day after the incident, Mr. Prime Minister Soma came to Soma on Wednesday -- you all know the living -- and then, a week later, 10 mine workers were brought to Ankara, accompanied by Plan and Budget Commission Chairman Manisa MP Recai Berber. They arrived, met with the Minister of Labor, the Minister of Energy and the Prime Minister. The workers have expressed their demands and have made certain promises, but none of these promises have been fulfilled during this period, and these legal arrangements have not been made, and between the promises, we will make all these laws within ten days, and we will make the arrangements. On June 4th, the Plan and Budget Commission launched talks on a bag of bills, including some materials related to the Soma mining accident, business security and underground mining. In the Commission, we insisted that those substances be immediately removed and brought to the General Assembly and continued to meet other substances, and as of today, the subcommittee's work went and began, although we continued our insistence, our demand, the government stubbornly, the ruling party did not separate the materials related to Soma Özakça from the bill, and Soma came to an explosive point. Their demands failed, and as of yesterday, the miners were unable to receive their wages. Because all the assets of the mining company, the bank accounts, were also confiscated by the Savings Trust Insurance Fund. Of course, in this case, it's a quick, quick arrangement that sort of solves nothing. However, even for a few months, even a month or two, there is an arrangement that allows workers to receive their wages somehow, and this is our support. From now on, these permanent arrangements must be made immediately and fulfilled. There are commitments to the families of those who have lost their lives, there are employment demands of mine workers who have lost 301 friends underground, and we will not download them until job security has been provided. Against the word, the employer has requests for a written job. In response to these demands, the Somese mining workers are indiscriminate. They're reacting rightly, and in return, the police face the baton, pepper spray. The people who lost their wives were met with their children, unfortunately with a police baton. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As the final word from this place, I warn the government: The Soma is on edge and is like dynamite ready to explode. I'm particularly reminding you of that.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0244par0347	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. There's got to be another motion now. You're breaking the deals, you're making it hard for me, and I'll put that on the record. We recommend that the declaration of the matter in question be replaced as................. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Özgür Special Ali İhsan Kokturk Ramazan Kerim Özkan Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0245par0357	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0244par0358	Do you agree with the government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0246par0359	We disagree, Mr. President. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0247par0362	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Now, what we're actually doing here is that more than 100 articles have been added from the Plan and Budget Commission to the subcommittee and the arrangements for the miners to be made. In fact, there was a time in terminology when there was a crisis opportunity, and now someone's creating an opportunity from disaster. At the point where we lost our 301 miners, what we need to do now is to eliminate our shortcomings, especially to sign ILO (ILO)'s regulation on working underground, then to make the proper laws, to publish the proper regulations, and to conduct them in the mines according to this. Why? I am the liar of Taner Star. Taner Yildiz said: "The Eynez mine is one of Turkey's most secure mines, perhaps in Europe." When? He said that last year in July. What happened? Seven to eight months after he said that, Turkey's biggest mining accident, business accident 301 took our lives. So according to our current legislation, according to our current control methods, none of those mines in Turkey is safe anymore. In addition, the teams who came to Soma, after the disaster, took the miners who had done the sitting-in-the-Soma action and brought them to Ankara, the people who had talked to Recep Tayyip Erdogan and those who had come to Soma again and said the words of Recep Tayyip Erdogan to the miners, said many things. In it, until you tell the families of the miners that they will be paid by the government for three or four months if they need to be forced into the mines, until they have one of the jobs left by their families, one of the dwellings, up to the extra salary, or the mine workers, if necessary, they will be paid by the government for three or four months, and then the Prime Minister asks: "How much money do you charge?" Let's make at least 2,000 lira. Do you want to buy? We don't buy. Let's give six bonuses a year. How many hours have you been working outside of this? They've sent miners with a lot of things that would please the miners, such as a king who's been in his presence, and the sit-in is over. He said, "Give us five days, Salih Kapusuz, who did his work through the Prime Minister, so that the sit-in would be over." They warned me on the side, five days is less, eight days, ten days at the top, five of them are less, and twenty-three, twenty-four days are past that promise, and they said on that day: "If we are not done, we will come and sit with you. Those who make that promise today are sitting in the seat of the council, in the commission, but the miners have begun to sit down again. They cut off the road today, had to fight with truckers. As of this moment, 750 miners sit in front of the Soma subcommittee. Two thousand of them were in front of you during the day. The new governor is here, and no one is satisfied with what he says, Mr. Governor, and we have no respect for you, and those who promise to come here, said the miners. So, this is what happens to these kids if we don't pay for this mine, even though we've only warned it so many times. We said, well, now we're bringing a piece of that word together. If not, the state will pay, then go after the employer through the collection of public debts. Today, to those who died in the mine that day, to those who were wounded from that mine, we do the job of that employer who didn't even pay his 13-day salary, and then we collect. You have ten promises. We'll see if the prime minister's word is superior and his uncle's. They say, "We'll continue to follow the ten states to keep their promise." We suggested it upstairs, they wouldn't take it. The job is to remove the 8 articles in which those words are contained and the 2 items you have not paid, from the Plan Budget, and from the bag, and bring them here at once tomorrow. Otherwise, the bag will be in the referendum, covering it with sugar and making people suffer, as you can see later, at which point it will be accepted. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...has reached the point of deployment, along with things that cannot be accepted. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0248par0373	Thank you, Mr. Special. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I believe there's been another motion. Now the Manisa MPs are in competition. Here you go, and we've agreed to that. Here you go, and then I'll take an hour off.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0249par0378	Let's reconvene at two o'clock.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0248par0379	You broke it, so it went on. You guys agree to keep the deal going, so I'm doing the wrong thing, right now, is that what's going to happen? Anyway, read it, okay, it's all accepted today. Get five signatures, I'm waiting. Another motion came in, and I'm going to read it: In the first joke of the Interim Article 12 (Manisa Province), added to Article 102 of Law Bill 592, we propose and propose that the declaration be changed in the form of "Manisa" (Manisa) Province of Manisa. Mihrimah Belma Line Muzaffer Citizen Bayram Özçelik Mehmet Şükrü Erdinç Selçuk Özdağ Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0250par0390	I'll leave it to the General Assembly's discretion, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0248par0391	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0251par0392	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0248par0393	I swear, he scored before me.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0252par0394	The victorious Citizen...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0253par0395	Then he can't talk.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0254par0396	No, he can't.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0255par0397	Huh?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0254par0398	He can't speak, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0256par0399	If the commission goes in, he can't talk.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0255par0400	Mr. Muzaffer Citizen, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0257par0402	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have done their work in the area, in order to repair the soma-truck in Soma, after the accident in Soma. And now, in the House, we've drawn up this bill to address the victims of the problems here, the immediate recovery of the workers' problems, the loss there, the loss of paying their salaries. Hopefully -- our Free Special Congressman has just stated -- that the government will pay off the workers in order to avoid being victimized, and the government will reproduce from the boss here. From day one, we were there as Manisa MPs, and we did studies on how to repair the victims of our workers. Of course, what's expected here is the wages the workers will receive from the boss. If production is stopped at this workplace by the Ministry, within three months workers will be paid by the state, by the fund, and from the employer there will be collected by the state. The goal is to compensate the workers there for three months. We -- our government's work on this -- hopefully, within the next week, we'll have organized the pension rights of 67 of our employees who don't deserve to retire in a bag of legislation, who don't earn retirement. After these arrangements, our workers' rights to pension and salaries will be fully regulated before this summer's holiday. I demand that all parties support this motion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0258par0406	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0259par0408	Mr. President, this motion has not been handed out to us.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0260par0409	Yours wasn't disbanded either.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0258par0410	Now, since you've all submitted the motions at the last moment...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0259par0411	Sir, you've broken our motion.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0261par0412	It hasn't been distributed.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0259par0413	So, has there been a significant change?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0262par0414	In the province of Manisa, they made the city of Manisa.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0259par0415	Now, I wonder if the province of Manisa was called "Manisa" instead of "Manisa." Mr. President of the Commission has submitted it to the General Assembly's discretion, and the Minister has said he agrees with this significant change.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0263par0416	Can you look at what we're dealing with at this hour?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0259par0417	So we suggested a change, and we changed his expression to. The commissioner didn't attend, Mr. Secretary didn't.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0264par0418	Both of you are very serious!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0259par0419	I mean, what kind of partisanism is that, Mr. Secretary? If a word change comes from the Justice and Development Party Group, you join, not if it comes from the Republican People's Party Group. I'm curious. I'd appreciate it if you'd explain.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit10spe0265par0420	Now, you tell each other. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0265par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th Session of the 104th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 592 from where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the motion to vote on the new clause violation: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Thus, the bill is subject to new material as Article 102. To avoid any confusion, we will continue negotiations through the current number of lines text. Article numbers will be identified during the writing of the law. There are two proposals of the same nature on the current article 102, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders Numbered Bill 102. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Faruk Bal Ali Öz Reşat Right Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 592 rows, 102. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ali Riza Özturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Kamer Young Mehmet Haberal Commission, do you agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0266par0022	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0265par0023	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0267par0024	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0265par0025	Mr. Akif Hamzacebi of Istanbul, please come in.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0268par0027	Mr. President, we're discussing a bill that covers various regulations regarding the judiciary. One of the items we passed has also been modified by the Trafficking Law, and some penal clauses have been reorganised. As the smuggling law was under way, a review by the Prime Minister about smuggling came to my attention three or five years ago, and I felt the need to share this assessment and my views on it with you. The Prime Minister made serious assessments of fuel smuggling at the Justice and Development Party group meeting on February 13, 2007. At that time, the Prime Minister said: "The automobile in Turkey, the automotive sector, is constantly improving, It's constantly growing, the number of cars, the number of motor vehicles is increasing, but even so, there's no increase in fuel consumption in parallel with this increase, and the opposite is fuel consumption. This shows that there is a smuggling in fuel. Yes, Mr. Prime Minister was actually moving from the right place, and we started a study by seeing this fact, how much fuel has come to Turkey from abroad, according to the records, and how much fuel has been sold in Turkey, according to the records, we took it out, and we wrote to 48 countries, and how much fuel did you sell to Turkey? According to the answer from 31 countries, 28 billion dollars of oil has come to Turkey in the last two and a half years -- $28 billion -- but according to customs records, the amount of oil entering Turkey is $9.3 billion. Adding that to the VAT, ETV, and the EPDK share, the size of this smuggling has reached $38 billion. Here's a $38 billion figure that goes into the smuggler's pocket. We've identified it. He said. After the Prime Minister's statement, we waited for a review of the money that went into the pocket of this $38 billion smuggler, waiting for a procedure, waiting for an investigation. The year 2007, now 2014, seven years passed, and the Prime Minister never opened his mouth about it again, not a word. Now, I'd like to ask Mr. Prime Minister, who represents the government here, I'd like to ask him: What transaction did you make about the $38 billion in smuggling that you detected, the money that went into the smuggler's pocket? About the smugglers who put this money in their pocket, your government, what procedure did the Prime Minister make? If there was no transaction, why were these smugglers tolerated in exchange for what? I have to take credit for what the Prime Minister said, the smugglers put $38 billion in their pockets. I ask the Prime Minister: What process did you do about the smugglers who put $38 billion in their pockets? Or did you come to terms with them later? Did you make some unofficial compromises, deals that the government didn't know about, in exchange for what? Or a third possibility, none of that was true, Mr. Prime Minister wasn't telling the truth, so he was lying. Which one? You'll object to me, Mr. Prime Minister doesn't lie. Yes, I believe the Prime Minister shouldn't lie. I'm expecting an answer from Mr. Secretary -- you're making arrangements for the smuggling law here -- what did you do with the $38 billion, who pocketed it, who took it, why was it tolerated, or did the Prime Minister lie, twist the facts? Mr. Secretary, I'd appreciate it if you'd explain. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0269par0034	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0268par0035	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0269par0036	I'm sorry, I'm gonna call him... For the other motion, Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0270par0038	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0269par0039	Read the reason. In accordance with this clause, some of the laws of 276, 277, 271 and 5320 are repealed, as well as misdemeanor and criminal justices. Due to the lack of a substructure on the exception courts and the purpose of politicising the State and the Supreme Court, the judicial justices do not need to be removed from force because of the purpose of politicisation of the judiciary. I submit the motions to your votes, I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, the motions have been rejected. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, there is now a motion for the new interim clause violations, which can be considered a new clause according to Article 91 of the Civil Code, which will be discussed on the proposals which the Commission has mostly participated in, and the number of motions specified in this clause may be submitted. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the commission joins in the motion, mostly with 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Now, I'm going to read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current 592 rows bill is 102. To come after the clause, we propose the addition of the following Interim Matter and the provision of other substances according to it. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ömer Süha Aldan Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan İkturk Ramadan Kerim Özkan According to the general election results carried out on June 12, 2011, the sentence of those elected to parliament shall be postponed until the end of the execution of the sentences of those whose sentence has been finalised. Lawmakers sentenced to death will be released immediately when the law is enforced.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0271par0054	Mr. President, may I make a statement?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0269par0055	Sure, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0271par0056	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers now stipulate that the sentences of arrested or convicted lawmakers should be postponed by the end of the term. Mr. Engin Alan is the only member of parliament currently in prison. Seven MPs have been arrested or convicted for this period, but have come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and have taken an oath to take office. There's only Engin Alan in prison. It is a shame that Engin Alan is still in prison. I'd like to invite all the commissioners over to the commission desks, sir. Just now, just as in Soma's motion, if we've established a ruling-opportunity majority there, we can make that majority in a different motion, and we can enforce it. I offer it to the General Assembly's discretion, to free the Grand National Assembly of Turkey from this disgrace.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0272par0059	Thank you. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0273par0061	Mr. President, since we don't have a majority, there's no possibility of a will for the commission's participation.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0272par0063	I'm afraid I'm dropping the motion now that the commission has not been in the motion for the most part. There are two motions in Article 103, which I read and process in order. 592 rows of the Law Bill 103. We demand and demand the removal of the word "sentence" in the article, which is included in the text, and the addition of the date of.01.01.2020. Faruk Bal Lütfü Türkkan Mesut Dedeoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 103rd edition of the Law Bill, which is currently held at 592 rows. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Riza Özturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0274par0078	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0272par0079	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0275par0080	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0272par0081	Mr. Akif Hamzacebi of Istanbul, please come in.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0276par0083	Mr. President, I'm here to discuss the next clause motion because of the motion that was not approved because there were no Commission majority. Dear friends, when the 2011 elections were held, eight of our MPs were in prison. First of all, Mr. Mehmet Haberal, our Zonguldak MP, was released after more than four years of imprisonment, following the court's unjust sentence for the Ergenekon trial, with a comparison between his sentence and his stay in prison, and Turkey arrived at the Grand National Assembly, under oath. Of course we're proud of it, we're happy. Later, Mr. Mustafa Balbay, our Izmir MP, was released because of his individual application to the Constitutional Court and was sworn in by the Constitutional Court to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr Mehmet Haberal and the MPs of the Peace and Democracy Party, who at the time set precedents for these decisions, have also appealed to the court. After a series of procedures, after various decisions by the courts, the MPs were released, they came to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and they took the oath to take the post. Now the only member of parliament remaining in prison is Mr. Engin Alan. Seven MPs are here, Mr. Engin Alan, the 8th MP. Next weekend, Turkey's Grand National Assembly will finish its work and go on vacation. Mr. Engin Alan will continue to stay in prison, and we'll go on vacation, vacation, as if we'd finished our work in peace of mind, stay in Engin Alan's prison. It is an injustice, an injustice to the vast area. Let's leave that sledgehammer, Ergenekon, the injustice of the cases, the unlawfulness, the injustice of the conviction of those cases, the unlawfulness. All the public knows this now, but even though seven MPs have come out of prison and come to Turkey's Grand National Assembly, Engin Alan is still stuck in prison if he can't come, and the Turkish National Assembly is watching this, it's a shame, my friends, it's a disgrace! Dear friends, I wonder what's wrong with Engin Alan. An honorable commander of the Turkish army has done all his duties, entered the 2011 elections with his eyes wide open, elected MP by the nation's votes, and has been in prison for five years. We'll shut down the House and go on vacation as if nothing had happened. This motion has been rejected, it hasn't been processed, but come on, I'm calling it in: we have until the end of next week. The constitutional amendment is the amendment, the amendment is the amendment, let's make it happen. Yes, I have a lot to say, but time is limited. That's the bottom line: freeing the vast area, bringing Turkey to the Grand National Assembly and starting its mission. And the content of our proposal is that the sentence is only postponed until the end of the term, that's all. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0277par0090	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. 592 rows of the Law Bill 103. We demand and demand the removal of the word "sentence" in the article, which is included in the text, and the addition of the date of.01.01.2020. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0278par0097	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0277par0098	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0279par0099	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0277par0100	Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0280par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, first of all, I would like to thank the Republican People's Party for offering to release Engin Alan Bey from prison. But, in fact, the way this works is much simpler, it doesn't even need a motion. This is the case: Engin Alan Pasha is being held in accordance with Article 14 of the Constitution. Article 14 states: None of the rights and freedoms involved in the Constitution can be used in the form of activities aimed at dissolution of the state's non-divisible integrity with its country and its nation and eliminating the democratic and secular Republic based on human rights. In fact, it is not acceptable to a commander who has served honorfully in the Turkish army, fought terrorism, fought Cyprus, had served in Azerbaijan, had accomplished many tasks, in such a way, that a person who is constantly working on the issue of the country's undistributable integrity would not be allowed to be brought in prison by this name. First of all, the government, which says the military has been framed, has become much more active in the matter, and if it's been set up and it's been discovered by TÜBITAK that there's been a fraud, then the Engin Alan Pasha, our MP, must be removed. Dear lawmakers, the only thing that will be done is that the Supreme Court's Attorney's office in the Supreme Court of Appeals shows that the evidence is insufficient or that there are some wrong circumstances on the evidence. In the face of such a situation, our Engin Field Congressman's conviction for retrial falls. In this case, he can be released, just like other lawmakers. We've confirmed that in our personal discussions with the prosecutors, the Supreme Court prosecutors. So, a very simple thing, it turns out, the Supreme Court's Attorney -- again -- has dropped the conviction and the path to a retrial has been opened after the Supreme Court declared that the evidence was insufficient. Such a speech is actually a subject that will save the squirming Turkish Parliament or the MPs of the National Assembly from boredom. Although we've said it over and over again, I'm afraid no one's taking a step towards it. Because, Engin Alan Pasha, I believe, is being held hostage against Abdullah Ocalan. Otherwise, why is the government or the Department of Justice not making an attempt to free him? Is it really not interesting that those who engage in all matters do not attempt to do so? I'm saying it's very simple, I repeat. It is not possible to remove it with any legal proposal, as long as the 14th Article of the Constitution is found. If you remove this, it can only come out. But I'm telling you the opposite. The Supreme Court's Attorney only reduces the conviction and allows him to retrial the lack of evidence at the Criminal General Assembly or to declare the need for a review within the framework of the decision made by TÜBITAK. If this is done, he will take his place in this House because he has been chosen by the grace of the nation. I invite you all to work together on this. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0281par0109	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion in Article 104. I'll have it read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current bill, 592 rows, 104. We propose and supply that the statement of the Council of Ministers be changed as Minister of Justice. Ali Riza Özturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0282par0120	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0281par0121	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0283par0122	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0281par0123	Mr. Turgut Dibek of the 40s, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0284par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the final clause of the bill, we are completing the law. And in a moment, I think by voting all of them, our friends will be legalizing them. Now, it's a 104-point bill.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0285par0128	The reason for this motion is... it's a very important proposal.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0284par0129	Of course, the motion is an important motion.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0285par0130	Very.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0284par0131	Yes, it's a very important proposal. I could have said something about the last thing, the last thing. Actually, my goal is to make final assessments of the bill in brief. Now, friends, it's a bill that's changed 15 different laws, which I believe is an additional change, and I think it's sixteen. Actually, his spine is a little different. I mean, there's the Turkish Penal Code on the spine, there's the Executive Judicial Law, there's the Penal Code. It covers more of the arrangements, including a couple of changes in matter. Actually, when we look at that spine, it makes sense in itself. I mean, the burden of the Court and the Court's work -- I've been talking on the stand here for years now and again -- is a constant complaint. In a sense, it is said that the Court of Justice and the State intends to reduce the burden of this work, to bring the court of law to life within a very short period of time. Those arrangements are understandable. What's going to happen in practice? So is this going to be useful in practice, or is it going to be harmful? I don't know if any of the new arrangements will come within a year, because we've done wrong. Of course, you know that there has been an increase in the criminal code in public sexual immunity attacks, especially in the attacks on children. There have been increases in the quality of theft crimes. Again, there are regulations for drug supply and use. Now, other than that, there are a few things that don't really suit this bill, dear friends. I mean, you know, it doesn't really suit the House, and it doesn't suit us, and it doesn't suit you. We've tried to explain this as constructively from the Justice Commission to here at every opportunity. And in the commission, as the Republican People's Party Group, when we discussed this bill, I think, for four days, five days, we expressed those complaints there, and we expressed the wrongs there, and we spoke here. Now, I think there are regulations that cloud this bill, sully it, make it really illegal, politicize it, make it unconstitutional. Here's one, our dear congressman friend, in order to save your general executives, in order to save those who make false memberships, fake membership records, and are currently on trial, here's a request for you to lower the sentence on Article 114 of the Political Party Act, and you've accepted it. In fact, this was clearly in violation of the 207th article of the Turkish Penal Code, which constituted the charge of fraud in the private document, so those two articles were all arranged. The punishment was arranged there from one year to three years, so using a special document as a fake, drafting, editing, whatever, from one year to three years, but when your friends committed that crime, you organized the punishment from one month to three months. You've made such a strange arrangement. It doesn't suit you, dear friends. Now, other than that, you're still interested in Article 277 of the Turkish Penal Code. The Minister is in position. I don't know if it concerns the Minister directly. I mean, did he call the prosecutors? It's a crime to influence those who serve as judges. But the undersecretary must have picked up the phone, and other people did. Here close the file. Here, change the prosecutor. Take the file. There have been instructions. The one who eliminated those investigations... In Article 277, you have ruled out the crime of the investigation to influence the person who served as a judge. That's not very nice either, dear friends, and I'll tell you that. Other than that, there's an immediate trial, which we've already stated. We insisted, as well as other party representatives of the opposition. That arrangement was a special arrangement for this bill, a periodical arrangement. Dear friends, he wasn't there either. Look, those regulations are the 10th article of the Constitution, Article 36, Article 138... He broke that bill, that stuff.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0286par0139	104 is 4, 6 is...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0284par0140	There's more, there's a few more. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But what I'm trying to say is, I wish this hadn't happened, and I wish you hadn't made those arrangements, dear friends. At least it could have been...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0286par0143	It's not enough, but yes, you say...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0284par0144	No, I mean, we've actually expressed our reservations about those other arrangements, the removal of the court of justice, turning it into judges, but... I think your arrangements here have fallen down in history, and I don't think it suits you at all. I'm offering these to your appreciation.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0287par0147	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The negotiations of the bill are complete. Now, according to the Civil Code Article 86, it is in favour of Manisa MP Selçuk Özdağ. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0288par0154	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We've reached the end of a bill. In a moment, with our votes, God willing, it will be put into effect and it will pass. Social life is variable, social actions are variable, and according to the social life and social form of this variable, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, from time to time, makes laws, and from time to time makes changes in the laws. This bill is one of them. You know, one of the key clauses in this law was the motion that we gave, and at the same time, the opposition party MPs signed their signatures, and together, we want to heal another societal wound, and we're going to wrap it up. You know, on 13 May 2014, one of Turkey's largest business accidents in the history of the republic had occurred, and 301 of us lost our lives, and there at the same time, 494 of our citizens were saved or saved. From that day on, the government reached out there, the NGOs were there, the NGOs were there, and we were trying to patch together a social wound, but there were people who were exploiting it. However, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is making sincere efforts to wrap up the wounds here in relation to our state and government. I'd like to say something about that. After the incident here in the business accident, as soon as we got there, we were confronted with the feelings of some of our citizens. A body was coming, a body was coming, and a woman from there was saying: "Mustafam, Mustafam, Mustafam! A child's body was coming from there, and when his hand was opened, my son said to me, "Give me your blessing." Also at four o'clock in the morning, when we said to him, "No, I will not go, my child is four years old, do not come to me without bringing my father." He called out to me, saying, "I will bring his father dead or alive." With such a public wound, these people have taught us lessons, and we have endeavored to take these lessons in the measure of our understanding. Now, with this motion, I said we're covering another societal wound. What is this? By the 17th, the employer had to pay the wages of these friends, these fellow workers, both in Atabaca, and in Lights, and in Eynez, until 17, but they did not pay them. Today, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has made a move against unpaid salaries and has said: "We will pay these salaries from the unemployment fund, and then we will then have the employer design it with legal interest. We use the expression, and hopefully we will heal another societal wound. I'd like to address my fellow workers here: of course you can use your legal rights, of course you may want to assess your rights on legal grounds in social matters, but please, in case of abuse, let's not let the people who have been abused make them, and we believe that in this bag, we put this clause in the law. As someone said, you acted, and today the Grand National Assembly of Turkey came in. Ten days later, this law would come out, the bag would go out with the law, then go to the presidency, be approved and put into effect, but when the salaries weren't paid today, the parties in the Turkey's Grand National Assembly made a motion to wrap up this social wound. I address my fellow workers from here: Please do not open the door to abuse in action, return to your homes. The state is strong, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey exists for this, our government is strong and will surely pay your wages and will continue to pay them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] At the same time, we're paying our friends here for their monthly deaths. As for the rest of our 64 citizens, hopefully, the bag will be paid from here, along with the law, and they'll get their monthly death benefits, they'll be tied to their pensions, and they'll try to hold on to life. At the same time, we will continue to support these people in the same way as the money collected and the help collected in AFAD. At the same time, our municipality will be assigned a place where our 301 citizens will be housed and delivered to them. Therefore, I would like to stress in particular that there are those who would like to make the abuses here. There are certain people who want to do these abuses. They say: "Your wages will not be paid." They say: "You will not receive your months of death." They say: "Your prims will not be paid." They also want to provoke the people there, but let them know that the people there, our workers, our government, and our government, are strong, these salaries will be paid. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's why we've made this arrangement, and we'll keep doing it. I wish this law to be a blessing, and I offer my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0289par0167	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Mr. Secretary, I can promise you your position now, or I can promise to thank you from there after I finish the vote.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0290par0169	My place.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0289par0170	Your position, yes. I mean, we're going our way. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0291par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Group Deputy Chairman Akif Hamzacebi has just made some assessments with reference to a 2007 speech. I have to make it very clear here that I am deeply disappreciated as acting president of a group. In a field where it's extremely difficult to make a clear number, such as smuggling, some theoretical computation can always be done, it can be subject to different calculations. You catch smugglers, you figure out a clear number, but you can do some sort of indirect, indirect calculations about what you can't find. You can set up a different method, you can do different calculations. Of course, we're not seeing that text right now, not in front of us, but there is the Prime Minister stressing his commitment to this, stressing the importance of this issue. I'd like to point out that I'm very surprised that he's going to be able to deflect it from its purpose, remove it from its context, and bring it to a point where it shouldn't be drawn at all, in such a manner as this, to bring it into the night. Our government's policies on smuggling are obvious, its determination is obvious, but as they do all over the world, it's certainly not possible to reset these things in our country, but they've done their duty in the matter of smuggling, with coordination mechanisms, institutional capacities, legislation, with all their means, our government, our institutions, they've done their duty, and they'll continue to do so.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0292par0177	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0293par0178	Mr. President, now, Mr. Secretary, he says he's offended my tone of speech. I don't like the way he talks. I mean, it's like she said I said something unreal. That's not what the Prime Minister said. He twisted my words by saying I said something unrealistic. I'd like to speak to Article 69, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0292par0179	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0293par0180	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs will, of course, defend the Prime Minister, who sits in the position of the government. But, Mr. Secretary, you've come from bureaucracy, without planning. You sit down and work a little. He'll study a little, and then he'll answer, and he'll say something consistent. So you're saying something random. You'll protect the Prime Minister, or the Prime Minister will answer to you. Minister, what did you do there? Did you stand there while Hamzacebi sang?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0294par0181	Roof tension.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0293par0182	Yeah, yeah, you're saying something random out there with that fear. Look, if you did anything smart, you'd shut up. You're doing something worse by not being quiet. What in God's name is in my language? At a group meeting in 2007, the prime minister said $38 billion went into the smuggler's pocket. We've written to countries, we've taken numbers from countries, $38 billion into the pockets of smugglers. We'll pay for this. He said. That's what the AK PARTY government said. What's the big deal? You can't say it's a lie. You're going to defend the Prime Minister. No, that's exactly what the Prime Minister said at the group meeting. In the meantime, you must have entered the Internet immediately and seen them. You see, you can't say anything, you have to say something else, you're lying, Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0295par0186	No!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0296par0187	Isn't that something to be ashamed of?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0297par0188	It doesn't... it doesn't...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0298par0189	Well, then you're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0296par0190	It doesn't look good on you! It doesn't look good on you!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0298par0191	You're perverting the facts in order to defend the Prime Minister. You're saying you don't like my style. I don't see it in you. Bureaucracy...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0299par0193	You're insulting here and you're being rude! This doesn't suit you as a group vice president!
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0300par0194	Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0301par0195	He insulted me again.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0302par0196	Mr. Secretary, where he sits, he says you're being rude.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0303par0197	You say he's lying. When did I tell you a lie?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0302par0198	It's an insult. I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0304par0199	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0302par0200	Now, that's what the Prime Minister's fear is like. What does he call me?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0305par0201	It's a matter of level...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0302par0202	Of course it's a matter of level, of course...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0305par0203	Yes, it's your level.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0302par0204	I mean, the level thing, the whole man thing, the whole human thing... Now, what's wrong with what I'm saying?
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0306par0207	Everything's wrong...
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0302par0208	The person who has some knowledge, some numbers, some legislation, says something else there in the interest of defending his Prime Minister. This process is not over. It may say, it continues. To say so, you had a friend here today who spoke ill of Immanuel Kantt. Okay, guys, I really can't think of anything to say. I'm just saying, he's trying to teach me a lesson in decency from there. Mr. Secretary, I blame you. I'm not going down to your level. I'll return this sentence to you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-17sit11spe0307par0212	[[Applause from CHP rows]] I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
