tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 13th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, who wants to talk about the problems of retired workers with a stake in Alexanderun Demir Steel Factory. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Congressmans, if we can please be quiet, we'll be able to hear the congressman on the stand better. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath outside the agenda to address the problems of retired workers with a stake in the Turkish nation, Alexanderun Iron Steel Factory. I salute your high council. In terms of working conditions, the iron steel sector is the head of the industry where the worker is exposed to the harshest conditions. It's a sector where workers in the production process sweat at risk. In this regard, it is very important that employees with hard work and sweat in the iron steel industry have financial prosperity in their pensions. In many counties, the Alexanderun Iron Steel Factory has provided jobs and food for thousands of workers, especially my constituency, Osmaniye. These factories are producing iron steel, one of the most critical needs for the country's economy, while producing ore, adding our natural resources to the country's economy, providing foreign exports to exchanges. These factories were founded in the early 1970s. The governments of that day, which gave these factories to the Turkish nation, chose not to build a palace for themselves with the money of the state and the nation, but to build a bread gate for the children of the nation. In 2001, the 57th government, which was part of the National Movement Party, decided to privatise these factories. The decision of the 57th Republic government to privatise is adopted by the approach of the workers from these privatised factories, rather than throwing workers out on the street as part of the social government's understanding of today's AKP rule. Thus, a part of his sacrifice to the veteran iron steel worker, subject to heavy work conditions that involve great risks, has been tried to pay for his sacrifices. The privatisation decision envisioned the establishment of a foundation, and its 11 per cent stake in these factories has been arranged on the foundation transfer of employees. According to this decision, 11 per cent of İSDEMIR was handed over to the support box set up by employees in 2002 and registered to the share book. Around 11,000 people have shared shares in SSEMIRI, over the foundation. From the end of 2002 to the beginning of 2013, these shares in the foundation were not written in the name of the rightful owners. In 2013, upon the foundation's application, the Capital Market Board decided on December 13, 2013 that the shares of the rightful workers should be held as a written stock. Since February 2014, it has been registered in the company's share book, which has been written in the name. Thus, those who hold this kind of stock are allowed to sell these shares on the basis of overthrow and turn them over. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, most retired iron steel workers live on a pension fee of between 1,200 and $1,300 a month. These figures are below the poverty and hunger limit. In order to maintain their lives, iron steelworker, like other pensioners, has to work as a salesman or as a salesman or as a participant. Some awake politicians, trades and businessmen who know this take stocks in the hands of these retired brothers at very low prices, for the price of the dead. Retired iron steel workers condemned to poverty have to sell these shares, said to be worth 80 to 110 thousand liras, at low prices, between 15 and 20,000 liras. On the other hand, the management of İSDEMIR has reduced the percentage of the shares held by iron steel workers by 11% to 4.93. What this means is that THE SECURITY government will be able to buy these shares from these workers for a very funny price in time. Iron steel workers cry out for these things. As a spokesman for their cries, we have two proposals to the government of the Republic of Turkey: the first is that these shares are to be sold to the stock market as soon as possible, and that the stock market is to find its true value and deliver and transfer. The other is that it is the government's duty to prevent the 11 per cent share of these workers from falling back, affected by the increase in capital. It is the government's duty to implement administrative and legal regulations concerning this issue, to address these victims, and we expect that. By doing so, the opportunists must be blocked. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0003par0028	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mersin MP Aytuğ Atıcı who wants to talk about irregularities in amateur sports. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0004par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to corruption over amateur sports clubs. I salute all lawmakers who have not been involved in corruption, who have not tolerated corruption and who have not remained silent in the face of corruption. My dear friends, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, I love the smart, nimble and moral figure of the athlete. I don't think anyone would agree with that proverb. All sports executives need to remember this proverb when raising athletes. So, what's the current situation? Unfortunately, during the AKP administrations, sports has been made the address of corruption and irregularities. How? Look, I'll give you an example: Mersin was founded on January 2, 2014, in an amateur sports club. I'm just saying, who's the club president? The club's president is the Deputy Director of Mersin Youth and Sports County. Each of the other sports clubs, which have been established in Mersin for years, has been receiving about an average of 3,000 lira from the state, most of them, while this privileged group, less than a month after its establishment, is beginning to receive a large amount of help from the state, not even before its authority boards are formed, within a month. These funds reach 800 trillion liras before the club is built in nine months, my dear friends. This club gets $800,000 from the government while others get 3,000 liras. So he's getting paid 250 times more than any other club. When you inspected the club, it's only been a month. Does he have any successes? Nothing. Similarly, 200 thousand liras were transferred to another cabin, so within nine months, two amateur sports clubs in Mersin are transferred to exactly 1 trillion dollars through the state. It's the same person who bought it, the head of the sports club, the Deputy Director of Youth Sports County, who founded the club, he's the one who gave away the money. Now, don't take what I've told you so far as a bet. These have been collected from the official documents of the state, the information obtained by the right to information. It's just like that in Mersin. We don't know what the situation is yet in other places. How money is distributed into amateur sports clubs is also vital in the sense of morality that feeds the sport, which criteria are involved in distribution. This help to the sports club, founded on January 2, 2014, within a month, shows that the work is not objective, that it is not moral. My friends, amateur sport requires even more morality. Amateur sports should be a role model for society, a pure and clean athlete, grow, olympic soul implant. But it seems to have been abused like this and infected with corruption by the AKP government. Now, exploiting these pure and clean emotions to dirty purposes, such as corruption, is the greatest evil done to our children, whom we encourage to play sports. So, the AKP governments had no intention of doing this evil, and they also exploited amateur sports clubs and used them for their bad intentions. In our research, club managers say, "Mr. Congressman, I swear we didn't even drink a cup of tea from this money. What did you do? They told us: "Spend the money there. We distributed it there. Look, my friends, these coins were sent after the Mediterranean Games, and they continued to be pumped from here as if corruption in the Mediterranean Games was not enough for the Court reports. Two: The aid before the presidential election is unknown, and the money given to these amateur sports clubs before the local elections is not clear where it's going. Our Mersin was unfortunately abused in every way during this time of power. The Mediterranean Games were known by doping that would bring glory to our city, corruption reflected in the Court's reports, associated with stadiums such as Arena, which could not possibly be played. Just yesterday you built a stadium in Mersin for more than three times the amount of a sports facility that was built in Kayseri, and I ask the government here if you're not satisfied. For the young Minister of Youth and Sports, it will either be contaminated, like his brothers, or he will be cleared. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0005par0042	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. The third word outside the agenda belongs to Sakarya (Sakarya) MP Münir Kutluata (Sakarya) who wants to talk about problems in the village of Ortaköy in the district of Kocaali, in the area of the dam. Here you go, Mr. Kutluata.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0006par0046	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the High Council. What I have promised is a village in Sakarya, and the people of the surrounding villages are forced to migrate by power. Melen Dam is a town in the district of Kocaali. Migration is done to the locals without showing them a new site so far, wherever you go, it's called. State Waterworks 14th in Istanbul The notifications made by the Regional Directorate authorities are that on November 17 these people will be cut off from their water and electricity and will be removed from their homes within a week by the forces of the gendarmes, where they have lived for centuries. There are three relevant ministries: the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism -- which have been passed on many times by the two -- and the third ministry must be the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, since these families are being thrown out on the street. The ministries are not interested in this injustice. There are five MPs in Sakarya, one of the ruling party's ministers, and no one is interested. There's the mayor of the city, there's the Metropolitan Municipality, there's the town hall, no one's interested. In all their languages, the same reason: these people have taken their property price, there is nothing to do. This is the answer. There's a lot of people who don't get the title price, a lot of people who don't get the full price. But that's not the point. It is important to ask the authorities: Have you asked yourself, when you are invading these people's places and their homes: "This is your price of choice, do you want to buy this, or do you want to live with your family, your neighbors, your lifestyle? It hasn't been presented. After the Soma mining disaster, the final, which aims to address every legal issue of power rather than to address the problems of the mine workers, brought an arrangement under the pretext of Centralköy district, under the name of Article 139 of the notorious bag law. According to Article 139, a specific area from the Ministry of Forest has been handed over and registered to the TOKI, to ensure the settlement of the residents of the Melen Dam in the district of Kocali, Sakarya Province, and to ensure the settlement of the residents in the area of the reserve area of absolute protection. The law states that this area was taken from the Ministry of Forests for the people living in Ortaköy and the surrounding villages. The Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs, which gave the area to the people of Ortaköy, and the Department of State Water Department of Forestry and Water Affairs who tried to force the people out of their homes; I draw your attention to the contradiction. Now we have to ask: If you gave the forest land to the people of Ortaköy to settle down, why did you force the families into the streets? Since you did not make this arrangement in time despite all our warnings, why do you give the most private territory to the people who are desperate for the people of Ortaköy? I made this point when the bag of legislation was discussed, and I took the liberty of taking the word for the 139th article in question. It cannot be used for a purpose outside the residence of the villages of Ortaköy and surrounding the village of Caferiye. I wanted to add the statement, but it was rejected. If the problems of our people living in Ortaköy are not to be solved, we do not want the negatives and doubts that are often involved in Turkey to inform our districts and our districts. Now, I urge the relevant ministries, institutions and authorities to eliminate this contradiction, otherwise, the ruling that has managed to open a door of rants from every social problem that arises because of its own irresponsibility will be judged that the problems of the people of Ortaköy have not failed to make Ranta bonds. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0007par0054	Thank you, Mr. Kutluata. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a moment of my word to the lawmakers who have entered the system. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0008par0059	Mr. President, the AKP's years will be remembered as the years when PKK's demands were met by the AKP. The process, called a solution, left order to the terrorist organization in the eastern part of our country, and the state's official officials could not be allowed on the street. It has been known that the PKK and the ACK have established schools, courts, tax offices, and alternative law enforcement forces in the region, which form parallel structures to the state. At the latest, the apocalypse is reflected in the press where autonomy has been declared in part of the land, and is trying to massize and promote this ad step by step. The President of all matters is silent, the Prime Minister is silent, the Home Secretary is silent. Our people ask, "Is silence a declaration?" Two: Why does the government not intervene in this treacherous attempt to destroy the unitary structure? Three: Does the government have any idea where this inefficiency is going? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0009par0062	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0010par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Imagine a country where its Prime Minister is busy with the classic Kerbela-modern Kerbala segregation. Think of a country where President Erdogan, who has become practically the only official, will open a corridor under pressure from the United States of America. Imagine a country helping a terrorist organization that it calls a terrorist by its own hand. Think of a country where a million and a half people walk the streets as refugees. Think of a country where there are fugitives who can only be informed of accidental drownings that occur in the seas every other day. Imagine a country where the Minister of Energy is busy escorting most of the time to mass death in the mines. Think of a country where terrorists can cut off roads, collect taxes, execute justice, declare autonomy over autonomy. Imagine a country where someone will draw a map of Kurdistan, a road in Imran. Can you talk about public order, democracy, or stability in a country like this? What is more, do you think there is power in such a country, or what is it busy with?
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0009par0068	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Coacher...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0011par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. During the Turkey Innovation Week meeting held last week in Gaziantep, 8,000 participants in three days and all provinces have been broken. I'd like to thank the Turkish Exporters' Assembly and the Ministry of Economics for this successful organisation around Innovation Week. I'd like to thank the Gaziantep city of Gaziantep, the Gaziantep Chamber of Industry, our Chamber of Commerce, and our exporting troops, who are working to build the innovative city of Turkey. I would also like to express that the Gaziantep, who developed his own innovation, is on his way to becoming the valley of innovation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0009par0073	Thank you, Mr. Coacher. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0012par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Turkish Petroleum Association had recently issued an ad for hiring staff in Batman, Mardin, Siirt, Diyarbakır, Adıyaman and Thracya district managers. Now, the Thracian Regional Directorate, located in Lüleburgaz district of Cırklareli, my constituency, is also in different areas to receive 35 personnel. The problem is that there is a problem: Now, in the ad, many people from all over Turkey have transferred their residence to the cyclare in a way that is contrary to the fact that there has not been a time limit for the past six months, since there has not been a municipality of residence in Turkey for a year. Thus, the rights of our citizens, who live here in that city and are qualified, have been imposed. From here, I warn both the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources and the TPAO. I mean, this kind of ad is a violation of people's rights, and it also paves the way for good intentions to be abused. There must be a redesign for this ad. And 105 were called from the centipede, and 53 of them from the outside, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0013par0080	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0014par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I've told you over and over again that the tender for the transfer of the Palu-Young-Mush railway was 740 million dollars in irregularity during the AKP period, 740 trillion dollars, and that special laws were issued to cover up this corruption. Today, 740 million dollars were wrongfully paid, but 50 per cent of the work was completed. The Ministry of Development has officially written and reported that $740m was not enough to be eaten, and 930 trillion liras were transferred to the relevant company -- be careful. So the money that was paid illegally went up to $1 billion,630 million,563 thousand, which is more than $1.5 billion. That's where the AKP governments brought our country, and it's embarrassing.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0015par0086	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0016par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. The zoning plan for the property of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, owned by Genghis Construction, which was not dropped from the agenda in 2012, was changed by the Ministry of Environment by bypassing the City Assembly. The new zoning plan was only suspended a few months ago, but in the meantime, Genghis Construction has already completed its construction. How can it be explained that by disregarding the IBB Parliament's decision, someone will be able to build above their precedent value? What's the reason for changing the plan by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, ignoring the decision made by elected members of the Ministry's Council? Given that construction has already reached its end, has the Ministry changed its development to fit the building of Genghis Construction, or has the zoning change been foretold to Genghis Construction? Is it also possible that an area in Ataşehir is given to the municipality of Umraniye to provide ease for these development changes? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0017par0095	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0018par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. In a study of economic, social, cultural, education, health and environment criteria, Afyonkarahisar, which is my constituency, is ranked 58 percent among the habitable cities. At Afyonkarahisar, 1,800 of the 8,500 norm staff are still empty. There are 1,370 gaps in the classroom. The training ranked Afyonkarahisar, however, in the 52nd place. Does the government intend to close the teaching and classroom gap of the Afyonkarahisar (Afyonkarahisar)? On the other hand, will there be a teaching appointment in February? When do they plan to deal with the injustices that have been done to major teachers so far? I'm calling in the authorities. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0019par0103	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0020par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. We don't have a parking lot downtown, we don't have a parking lot. There are no toilets in our town of Şanlıurfa where our disabled citizens can afford toilets when they go to the center of the city. There aren't enough city buses and flights for our students to go to college and come to college on the university campus in Şanlıurfa Province. In this regard, our citizen is a victim. Also, there are no signs of historical sites, historical locations, tourist destinations on the E-5 highways. I'd like to ask all of you to take an interest in these issues, these sacrifices.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0021par0111	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Your Highness...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0022par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. The National Ministry of Education, published quietly in the Official Gazette on September 13th, has been brought in to make changes to the Central Education Institutions Charter without asking for points in high schools and schools. According to the regulation, students can be transferred no matter what the student's score, when the requirement for transfers of 10, 11 and 12th graders is not required. Before that, free quotas were created by increasing the quota, raising the class's assets from 30 to 34. Although recently the student's quota at Skopjedar American High School was limited even for the preregister, it was reflected in the press that the student's score had been recorded by the Istanbul State National Education Director and the Biatrical Minister of Education. This student is claimed to be the grandson of the chairman of a private broadcast group, and the Minister Avcı is said to have personally ordered the registration. How is that possible? I'm saying, can this fit into the law, into the conscience from here on out? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can the right of a child's future be condemned?
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0023par0118	Thank you, Your Highness. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0024par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of National Education through you. Is it true that the Little Kuyu Elementary School in our town has been closed for seven months because it is not earthquake-proof? If so, what procedures have been made about our school so far? Is it true that the mayor of Küçükkuyu warned that we should build this school as a municipality and reopen it? Even though the authorities have applied for it, do not interfere, we will do it. Is it true? Why wasn't the school allowed by the Mayor of Kuyükkuyu, since you did it? Students have to go to another school because the Junior School is closed. Are you aware that as a morning person and as a nooner, he starts teaching at 8:00 in the morning and is being taught five minutes of recess? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0025par0124	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Dear Little...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0026par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Some artists and businessmen co-operated with a foreign youth organisation and were discovered by police last year by Radical correspondent Ismail Saymaz, where he was preparing a trial last year for travel protests. Such a mind-blowing trial is enlightening to what might happen when the police, who are supposed to ensure the safety of all of us, enter into the wheelwater of politics. I condemn those who have prepared this trial and those who have prepared it. I think the security forces owe an apology to those who are being targeted like this. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0027par0130	Thank you, Mr. Little. Mr. Straight...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0028par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there's been a natural massacre at the Tokat. Just last summer, in Zile, the municipality had to bring home water in tankers. And yet now there are three HESs installed on it, and 19 village chiefs cry out because it is clear that as a result of the establishment of these HESESTs, the land here will be dry and unable to plant. In the same way, the beautiful canyons of Lake Zinav are used as quarrys in Reshadia. There's dynamite going off right now. Again, Kelkit Tea, Kelkit Plain is devastated. There's no Kelkit tea running right now. Thousands of acres of farmland face thirst, drought, and all living life in the river is over. I wonder what the Minister of Agriculture of this country, the Minister of Environment, does. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0029par0136	Thank you, Mr. Straight. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0030par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. A complaint has been made to my side that some recently conducted inspections at workplaces using false documents and the title of business inspector. They are also alleged to have sold books, magazines, and such publications for money. Is there any inspection on this subject? In Şanlıurfa, hiring is provided as part of the programme for the benefit of the community. I've had problems with that before. Hires are being made without rules, allegedly taken by AKP members of their own family. This year, fewer people have registered in the records where 10,000 people apply each year. They don't know how to tell them. How are these purchases made? What will these poor people do? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0031par0143	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0032par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister Davutoglu says in his dreams that he had seen Hegel. He wonders if we had seen the late Prime Minister Turkesh. Of course, every Turkish nationalist dreams of the late Prime Minister Turkesh. In our dreams, the late Basbug asks us to ask the people who divided the Turkish nation and the Turkish nation, the people who allowed it to be divided, and the people who negotiated with terrorists. In addition, the late Prime Minister Turkesh asks us to ask the account that Davutoglu, who has taken nationalism under his belt and who says, "It is time to settle up with nationalism." Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0033par0149	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0034par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. The December 17th and December 25th corruption investigations, prosecutor's amendments, judge changes, followed by a non-obsolving decision following legal amendments. So I'm not surprised because there are no independent judiciary and law in Turkey. Now, the Ministry of Finance has the authority to object on behalf of the Treasury on December 25th. There was an intervention, the Chief Justice was sent on leave, then retired and replaced by a new manager. This manager is the wife of the prosecutor who decided not to follow up on the investigation. So the D.A.'s wife will look into his decision, like it's a family matter. There's no way to understand this, but I'd still like to ask the Minister of Justice: Has the prosecutor's decision of non-obstruction been made to the Chief Justice of Istanbul? In what date was it delivered, and if it is not, what is its reason? How did the State Department respond to this notice? Did the family judge give the expected result? I think the Turkish people have a right to know. Yours truly, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0035par0156	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0036par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. The government has not issued a statement and the media has destroyed our beloved nation for its declarations of autonomy by PKK terror organization in Cizre and Silopi, under the eyes of Turkish law enforcement forces in recent days. Although the AKP executives who run the country have no voice on this issue, I say that it is treason for this nation to go on television every day and do political propaganda, but not to make any attempt to disrupt the so-called resolution process against the terrorist organisation, and I invite the government to make a statement to the mighty Turkish nation, particularly the Turkish Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0037par0162	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0038par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. Even though Adana was one of the first industrialized cities in the 1950s, even though he was, you know, one of the first industrialized cities at the end of the weekend at Adana, in various parts of the community, especially after 12 years of wrong policies by the Justice and Development Party -- the city of agriculture and industry -- is now in the midst of some chaos. Especially our city, where subcontractorization is common, is one of the most unemployed in Turkey. The incentive law, which was passed two years ago, also fueled the process. I'd like to point out that if there are no special measures taken by the government regarding Adana, the size of the social explosion will be advanced. Again, there have been serious problems with the law on the sale of forest and treasure land here last year. When we visit the area, especially in the sale of the agricultural land in the treasury...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0039par0169	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Finally, Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0040par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. In some neighborhoods of Manisa Province, Salihli district, Burhan, Ghatlı, Eminbey are halfway through the period, but the tender for schools to be carried by the system has not been completed, and the children cannot be moved. The small-income Oldville, called Yenimahalle, is making an effort to get our children to read in the settlements, despite the money they don't have families to read. The Ministry of National Education is responsible for the failure of the tender so far. Will it be considered that families who are unable to exercise their rights because of this responsibility should receive help from the Ministry, such as educational aid or road money? I'd like to ask the Ministry from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0041par0175	Thank you, Mr. Oz. We're going on the agenda, Mr. Lawmakers. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the incident in Akçakale, which killed five people, various reports have been made public that there have been armed aid to Syrian dissidents on the Turkish border. In order to investigate these allegations and how Turkey is secured on the border with Hatay in particular, I would like to submit a parliamentary investigation into the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, Turkish Parliamentary Assembly. On October 3, 2012, a shell fired from Syria at around 15.30 p.m. and no casualties occurred in the area of the Land Mahuller Office, about 200m from Akchakale district of Şanlıurfa. In less than an hour after this incident, two mortar bullets were dropped by Syria on Kazim Karabekir Street in the same area, the mother Zeliha Temudgin and her children Fatosh, Ayşegül, Zeynep and relatives Gülsen Özer lost their lives. Before and after this incident in Akchakale, and at various times, mortars have been seen dropping from time to time to some districts of Hatay, especially on the border of Hatay, Syria. At the time of these incidents, various reports of aiding money and weapons to mercenaries, Al Qaeda members and Syrian opponents have been reported in Turkey's media on the Turkish border, fighting against governance in Syria. Again, several strong allegations of recent Syrian refugees taking armed training from time to time in Hatay, building headquarters in refugee camp, and providing weapons assistance to opposition forces fighting against the regime in Syria through ambulances have been reflected in both the Hatay people and the domestic media in Turkey from time to time. These reports also show that a building in Hatay's Yayladakü district has been completely divided into paramilitary forces from Syria, where important information has been cut specifically for building bombs. These events, on the one hand, have caused the people of Hatay to be under constant stress, and thus, Turkey is becoming increasingly concerned by the public. I propose that the Constitution be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, to investigate how security is provided at Hatay's Syrian border in order to determine whether or not there is any weapons assistance in Hatay, to expose the possibility of provocation of attacks against Turkey, to examine preparations for a possible provocation, and to provide sufficient enlightenment for Turkey's public opinion on this issue. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The fact that Turkey is 70 per cent dependent on energy is an expression that no matter how much our country improves, it will never be able to have any prestige. The fact that our energy consumption increases by 4.5 per cent to 5 per cent per year, and that if production doesn't happen, it risks the future of energy dependence, supply security and the country's economic, commercial and industrial future. Therefore, our dependence on the outside of energy must be reduced urgently and regularly. However, new energy investments have been envisioned as the only way to cover the energy deficit in Turkey so far, and new investments have been applied to imported resources and fossil fuels. This has also increased the release of both external dependence and greenhouse gases. Ten percent of electricity produced in 2011 was produced from imported coal. The licenses of subsidiary plants at 181 per cent of current power are licensed, with the capacity of 8.965 megawatts, while the application for licenses of investments at 11.765 megawatts is under way. If these plants are licensed, the additional capacity for import coal-based plants will reach 20,730 megawatts. In other words, Turkey will have as many as 41 per cent of its installed power as new imported coal plants. As a result of measures for the use of domestic and renewable energy sources in the Power Energy and Supply Safety Strategy Document, dated 21 May 2009, electricity production will be reduced to less than 30 per cent. However, 44.7% of the electricity produced in 2011 was produced from natural gas. In addition, natural gas power has been licensed at 14104 MW capacity at 281 per cent of the current board power. The application is 30,422 MW, and the power of the plants in the process of review-evaluation is 30,422 MW. If these plants are licensed, an additional natural gas plant will be installed at 44,525 MW capacity, 88% of the total installed power today. For these reasons, in order to avoid any further problems, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to encourage and promote energy use and production in the fields of wind and solar energy, and to determine the measures to be taken. [[İstanbul]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] 8) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Niğde]] [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 15) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] [[Balıkesir]] 19) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 20) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 21) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 23) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[Mersin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Along with the massive earthquake that took place on October 23, 2012, and the after-after, hundreds of our citizens lost their lives, and tens of thousands of our people were left homeless. After a difficult winter, we found that our Vanli brothers were still having great difficulties, and on 19 August 2012, after 10 months, we conducted our investigations in Van central, Muradiye and Ercish districts and Canik Village. As there were many examples throughout the Van, 17 mosques were destroyed in Canik Village and around it, but no new ones were made in more than three hundred days. Although there is a health clinic in Canik, it is not possible for staff to stay in the village for the weekend and not even get a tetanus shot, for which our village citizens who are spending a lot of money have to go to Van 50km away. The DSI, Tapu Kadastro, who serves in Muradiye district, has come to a complete end because of the closure of the meteorology departments and the prison. Because there is only public services in the district with the Security Directorate, City and Agriculture Bank. In Ercish, the physically disabled, illiterate Menshure Durmez, who tried to survive in a wheelchair, said that his brother had died because of the earthquake in their rental home, and that he and his sister-in-law now widow lived in a container, and they were not given housing assistance. The lack of housing allowance for tenants is a common problem, especially for widows. Erciş is one of the problems that there are 17,500 populations in Barrack District, but it is only a school with 12 classes, and the fact that it is valid throughout Van is one of the problems. The lack of permission to replace the houses that were destroyed in the town of Çelebagek has raised a public interest in the runt. In Ercish, it is one of the remarkable problems when 7,000 large and small - headed animals are sent to Muradiye because it is safer after the earthquake, and then returned by its owners, but the government has promised 400 euros for the head and 60 euros for the small head. 5,350 containers were made in Ercish, but only 30 per cent of them are still said to be full. Again, 4,500 heavily damaged dwellings have been found in Ercish, but 5,500 homes have been built here and only 2,300 people have applied for them, and 90 per cent have been cancelled because their conditions are inappropriate. As a result, only 1,400 dwellings have been provided, and the public resource has been squandered without proper planning. In addition, it is not in the form of a social state view that only 30,000 of the dwellings were delivered to the earthquake victim for $100,000, and that only 30,000 of them were paid by those concerned. It is often said by the citizen that the TOKI must deliver these dwellings at their cost without profit. At the construction stage of the dwellings, the fact that contractors do not benefit from local resources in materials and labor also showed a sedimentary stance for the region's economy in terms of employment. Locals say that even in the 1976 earthquake, housing for buildings that had been badly damaged was delivered for 20 years without repayment, and today it is a big contradiction that they would have to pay the TOKI two years later. Due to the unique conditions of the east, the deeds are very distorted, for example, due to the fact that the father or father are registered to the elder brother, for example, in a ten - circle building that was destroyed in the earthquake, so that only 10 brothers or relatives living in the building would be assigned to one dwelling. The van shop lost its capital, but it is due to a delay in loans from Halkbank and Agriculture Bank, and there is a great deal of trouble with KOSGEB aid. The results expected to delay the loans have not been achieved, and it is remarkable that in this region even the penalty for delaying SGO bonuses has been issued in the earthquake zone. Electricity was raised in March 2012, but since the earthquake took place in October 2011, the bill could not be billed, a raise was reflected in March as well. In the freezing winter conditions, it is unacceptable for a citizen who has received a collective bill of between $650 and $2,000 in the spring, which can only be heated by an electric stove, to be able to repay it, but to reverse the increase that comes to this, to make the debt unbearable. Earthquake momentum 1. It's nearing the area of the quake zone, but it's the second place in Van where all the official buildings are located. A grave claim that it was built according to the degree area is also expressed loudly in the region. Even today, supplies and similar assistance are still being stored at the Department of Highways warehouse. For all these reasons, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to address the problems that Van and Vans face ahead of the winter season, in order to determine the urgent measures needed. [[İstanbul]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] 13) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 14) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] 17) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 19) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[Sinop]] [[Mersin]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Advice 12/11/2014 (now) Wednesday (now), I respectfully submit that the following proposal of our group should be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. It was given on 29 January 2013 by Mardin MP Erol Dora and his friends (2462 rows no. Lu) The employment and living conditions of workers working in the mining sector in Turkey have been proposed to be read in Wednesday 12/11/2014 and co-exploration of the parliamentary inquiry motion given to the Grand National Assembly to investigate the problems they face in the field of work, before other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. In favour of the proposal, İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0042par0347	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Because of the weight of the working conditions of workers and workers working underground in the mining sector, and because of the work killings, labor killings that are not missing from Turkey's agenda, our group recommends a parliamentary investigation into the matter. Besides, there's actually Clave research on this, after the major mining accidents, after the catastrophes. The last, however, was that a research commission was established in Soma (May 13, 2014) after the death of 301 miners, but due to the lack of compliance with previous commission reports, as the government was following all these painful events, we found it necessary to rephrase this issue on the agenda of Turkey's agenda and on the agenda of the Assembly. First of all, I offer my condolences for all workers who have lost their lives in this area, where 50,000 workers work in all the minefields, where thousands of workers and those who live around them eat bread and live. Finally, I ask patience for the painful families of the miners of Ermenek, whose bodies are still buried in the ground. Especially in all of our memories, my son can't swim. We share the pain of the grieving mother who says, "Well, unfortunately, there are forces that rule over this brutal capitalist order and this order, as long as our mothers don't stop suffering. Therefore, we feel that our request for parliamentary research is important for both the government's progress, for the miners waiting for parliament to work, for their families as well as for all the labour organisations fighting for the health and safety of workers. We've seen how hard, how difficult, how difficult, how difficult the conditions of working underground have been, and how cruelly, come on, how cruelly, so-called profit-seeking capital companies, or mining companies, have forced workers to make more production, more production, and more work hours, especially after Soma. And after May 13th, all who were responsible for this, especially the mining engineers' rooms, said that the area was a bomb ready to explode, warning that 250 mines in Turkey had similar conditions, but Ermenek did. Why? Because it's closed right next to you, but it's not controlled, it's flooded, it's flooded, it's flooded, but it's allowed to be produced in that basin. In fact, the lack of control is on top of all of this, but where is the responsible one, where will the flaw be called? Of course, this free marketer has to look for the privatisation logic that has given everything to the private sector as a cake since the Ozal era. This is exactly what happens when all minefields are presented here by the state's hand, privatisation, redevance system, and then the subcontractor system, as the government complains so much when it's stuck, it's forced to produce too much, it's called a ruthless profit ambition. On top of that, after the Soma disaster, after the Soma disaster, there was expected to be healing arrangements for miners in the bag law, while the government introduced practices to the finger of the blind eye, which would make the subcontractor system and the method of service in this entire area even more permanent, even more systematic, that would expand the workforce of their deaths. However, from the beginning of the year, their arrangement for occupational health and safety would put an end to all this cruel, life - taking environment, as the Minister of Labor said, but we can see that this is not the case. We see the same understanding, the same approach in the Business Health and Safety Package, which Mr. Prime Minister announced today. What is it? The Redevans system will last at least 15 years. I mean, what is it? The government, which is forced to answer to the public in the atmosphere of all these murders and disasters, declares a package with this jam, but this package, not a salve to the wound, but a problem to solve, not a problem in this field, reveals an understanding that opens more doors to suffering, catastrophes. Dear lawmakers, the control system is important. There's a lot of talk about living rooms, gas masks, station mechanisms, but the main thing is to run the scientific, technical arrangements that are appropriate for mining and preparation to prevent this without an accident. It's clear that the private sector, subcontractors, those who run this place by redevance, by hiring, are not going to do it with that desire for profit, and they're not going to. Political, management mechanism, representative... It's the government's job, they don't look the other way, they do it to make more money. It's not to complain, it's to set up mechanisms to prevent it. But can he do that? Of course he can't. Because those who choose this government, those who put brokers in place, those who say, "Don't close the mines when there's an incident." Those who call 50 people -- that's what the Minister of Labor is complaining about -- are actually the functioning of this capitalist system, and that politics is the way the bourgeois, capitalist politics governs. Now we're looking at this Business Health and Safety Package, which the Prime Minister recommended, and it's being abandoned to independent audit boards, building control companies, or markets. An understanding that makes everything completely irresponsible to the business expert there, to the physician, to the manager, to the contractor, to the contractors, and to the subcontractors, is now in the same way. No, there should be autonomous audit boards, not in the council style like now. Here's the representative of the engineering rooms that joined the council, where we have no function. Autonomous worker health and safety boards must be formed. It's important, of course, to eliminate and regulate small mining from the basin mining -- that is, based on this Ermenek. But if you act with a kind understanding of the bosses here, the end will be a disappointment. I mean, it's not acceptable for the government to collect all these premiums from these licenses, to improve and improve and rehabilitate these places, and to return them with the same privatisation logic. There is no deterrent for them, nor will they be brought back to life. Look, on top of that, the employer gets a bonus incentive for taking the necessary measures he needs to take. And if there's an accident, the punishment system will raise the premium. Is that possible, with what logic? Look, from the moment this law went into effect, 475,000 businesses, occupational health, safety specialists have failed to meet the requirements, hasn't paid their ten-month debts. The Court reports have made these, the irregularities there, the bonus fugitives a dump, but which one has been followed, which one has been carried out? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Organization, organization, organization... As long as the working class is not organized, as long as they don't personally exercise control, the unions will continue to take lives and kill workers as long as they don't stand by and act on all these workers' murders. It is also our Parliament's responsibility to prevent it. I invite you all to support and accept this motion of inquiry. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0043par0363	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. On the other hand, Ionya MP Ayşe Türkmenoglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Turkmenoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0044par0367	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are the members of the People's Democratic Party...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0045par0369	You never learned our name.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0044par0370	...I have made a pledge against the Parliamentary research motion for workers working in the mining sector to investigate the problems they face in the field of work and to take the necessary measures against the problems in these areas. I salute your esteemed delegation. First of all, I wish God's mercy to all of our miners who died in the accident in Ermenek district of Karaman Province, and to our families and to Turkey. But it's also not right not to say that, of course, the problems in the mining industry are back on track because of the accident that took place in Soma. But there's also this perception in Turkey: there is a lack of legislation or legislation about the market market or the hard working conditions. Of course it's out of the question. The arrangements have been made, the necessary measures have been taken, but can they be further detailed? Which is what we're doing right now. As it is known, there was a major accident in May in Soma County, and 31 of our miners were killed.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0046par0374	301, 301.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0044par0375	Because of the accidents in these mines, our Commission for Research on the Soma Mining Accident has been established, you know, about re-evaluating the mining disasters and the immediate implementation of the measures to be taken. A detailed investigation of the Soma Eynes January accident, which has heightened our social sensitivity to the causes of the accident, continues. At the moment, our Parliamentary Commission has made its final preparations; the report has come to the stage of preparation, which will be completed shortly. Research is also being conducted on improving security in the mining sector, improving security in business and organizing living conditions. Our research here, our research in the Soma accident, is not just the cause of the Soma accident, but our friends in the Commission already know that very clearly. We all went to the scene together with our friends, the opposition and the ruling legislator, and we studied in the mines. We were going to do it in Zonguldak, not just in Soma, but in Zonguldak, in Karaman Ermenek, which was canceled on one occasion, later, forwarded, but couldn't go -- research has been done in various parts of Turkey about accidents, experts have been heard. Of course, going abroad also came to the attention, but our fellow MPs from the main opposition party objected at the point of searching for secure mines abroad, so that there would be no further outings, no more spending, no more money from the Assembly. So we said to our research commission: "Will we know what the mines in Australia or the mines in America are like, or will we know what they are, or will we know by reading them?" I don't know, we'll all see what kind of decision to make in the future. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, as we say, our Commission is not only conducting investigations into the state of the mines, but is doing a broad and comprehensive investigation into the prevention of accidents that may later occur in the mines, about fixing living and working conditions, are being obtained from experts on this issue. After the Soma accident, 94 mines have been shut down after the inspections of both our Department of Labor and our Energy Ministry. Criminal charges have also been carried out, and the necessary procedures have been initiated. The point, of course, is that no one of our employees, no one's nose bleeds, the maximum measures are being taken on it, but you can appreciate that it's not the making of the perfect laws, it's how they're being enforced, it's how they're being enforced. Which, of course, is activated by organs that are the elements of the execution. In a sense, it's been said before: to increase control. There are some, you know, preparations that our Prime Minister has explained today about the fact that the audits that are being carried out are not on paper. In particular, I would like to point out that our friend from the People's Democratic Party just told us that the package that our Prime Minister announced today was inadequate, that if he could listen in a little bit more detail, they would actually understand that these are the issues that we're discussing with the Soma Commission right now. Because our scientists, our experts, who briefed us on the commission, gave us very detailed information about the measures in the mines, they gave us information from outside practice, and today while I was listening to our Prime Minister, I saw that they would be carried out. I'd like to share with you, perhaps in headlines: Mining companies will give life insurance to workers, and all miners involved in this transition will be covered by life insurance. The monitoring of the minefields will be carried out by accrued independent organisations. Yes, the legal legislation on this has been implemented, but right now, unfortunately, occupational health and safety experts are taking a salary from that office and checking out the workplace. We all knew that wasn't true, and we talked about it at the Soma Research Commission. That's why I think it's important for independent equity companies and corporations to conduct this audit. Again, the merger of small businesses will be provided. Part of the registration fee will be used by the Finance Ministry for rehabilitation and modernisation of mines. Especially at this point, the assistance needed by the miners will be done by the government because the upgrade of standards there will also reduce mining accidents. Again, arrangements will be made to prepare mining business projects for high standards. There will be training required to improve the quality of staff in mining businesses. Especially in our Commission research, we've looked into how the miners are trained. They were hired today, and you are hired tomorrow. We tried to get information at the point where they were employed after a long training period or after a long training period. Unfortunately, what we saw was that, yes, they had to start by being educated in the legislation, but in practice, we got information at the point where the miners were started by pretending to be educated. And perhaps after that, their inspection will be much clearer. Two million 700,000 employees who work in very dangerous jobs will be obliged to obtain a certificate of professional competence. The professional formation of our employees' professional work will be certified. This framework will include mandatory business health and safety courses for vocational upper secondary schools and university schools. Again, construction control firms will be burdened with responsibility for occupational health and safety. The sanctions will be compensated, bonuses will be raised at workplaces where there's been a fatal accident. Here, the employer pays the premiums of our workers regarding the SGK, and bonuses will be raised. The administrative fines will be increased, and the employer who does not provide personal equipment according to standards will be fined. Emergency stop operations in specific areas can be halted without the inspector's initiative. Sometimes with the inspector's arrival, time passes and dangerous work continues. At this point, the process will be accelerated. Again, the employer will be banned from state tenders for two years, in addition to the Turkish Penal Code's punishment, if there is a flaw in the fatal business accident. It'll be controlled by the chip next to where the ground mining workers are located. In particular, scientists who worked in Australia and in some other countries, the academics told us about this to our Commission; it was a beautiful practice. In Turkey, hopefully, this will be carried out. Again, underground studies will require plans to be three-dimensional. We think it's a particularly important step in training and reducing the risk of accidents. Documents on mining will be processed into electronic media, so that it will be known what's going on in a mine. There's been a lot of, you know, explanations about this today. Again, an increase in penalties will be made, and a one-year period has been reduced to six months, especially during inspections and exercises. You know, in the past working period, we've made special arrangements for the situation of our workers in the mining industry in the bag of legislation. I have to say, yes, the HDP proposal is correct, but there's already a parliamentary investigation on this issue, and there's a Commission study that's reached the final stage. So I don't think it's very reasonable to re-establish the Commission on the same issue. Therefore, the current Commission feels it would be more appropriate for the report to be brought to the General Assembly and discussed here, pending the outcome of our work, and I respectfully salute your delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0047par0398	Thank you, Mr. Turkmenoglu. On the other hand, Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0048par0402	Mr. President, I'm speaking as a friend of yours, a brother who has studied mining engineering at İstanbul Technical University Mining School from 1974 to 1980, spent 12 years in underground mining businesses, and then worked as a lawyer in case of a business accident in my life. Now, I have the measures the government has explained, which the Prime Minister has explained. Our friend who spoke for the AKP before me told me. In fact, I would like to say that what the Prime Minister explained, as an engineer, were accidents caused by the fact that the workers had no life insurance? The Prime Minister only says two things here that can be handled. First, we'll put it together. he says. I told you in 2008 that the watershed must be mined so that men can be operated effectively, efficiently, and in line with job safety. Now the Prime Minister says we're going to merge small businesses. I said that here in 2008, my dear friends. Now, none of what the Prime Minister considers a precaution, but none of it, as an engineer, is capable of preventing the work killings that are being committed. It seems that when the government wrote these measures, they did not even bother to discuss it with the experts. The Minister of Energy was here a little while ago -- something like this is being talked about, he's gone. My dear friends, 301 people died in the month of May in Soma. Now 18 people died in Ermenek. On the day after the incident took place in Ermenek, October 28, I went to Ermenek on 29th and threw it away, saying that 18 of our workers who had been told to be underground had died. There's no point in fooling citizens. 50 meters of water rising from the level where people are; you are still there as undertakers, giving hope to the citizens, being saved, being saved. There wasn't even any rescue efforts there. They're coming now. I don't know, the dirt's coming out, the mud's coming out. Of course it's coming out. My dear friends, in the measures explained by the Prime Minister, the criminals are employers and workers, employees, engineers. There's no government here, there's no government. Now, our previous friend said, "Sir, the legislation is sufficient. " The matter is not enough, my friends. Now, look, two things are noted in Western countries that minimize business accidents: first, regulations on safety measures in the mines; second, strict inspection of whether or not this regulation is implemented. In the regulations there, the measures to be carried out in mining are clearly and clearly counted, so a mining engineer, a mining sergeant, a mining employer, knows where to do what, how to do it from the regulations. In our country, there are no such clear regulations. Only nine articles of the rule on labour health and occupational safety in 2013 are related to security measures, all of which are vague statements. For example, the seventh article: "The employer takes the necessary measures at work. " Now, what measures are necessary, what measures are unnecessary? When there is a job murder at work, the employer or the engineer there claims that he has taken steps that he should have taken with good will within his own knowledge, so he tries to relieve himself of responsibility. In those countries, the first responsible state in Western countries was given responsibility to the government and to the employer in the regulations of those areas. The obligation imposed on technical staff is simply to ensure that the obvious measures are implemented in the regulation. We don't know who's going to take these precautions. The state has no responsibility, the Minister of Energy has no responsibility, the Ministry of Energy's General Directorate of Mining Affairs has no responsibility. We're dealing with a government that's so irresponsible that we don't have a mining engineer or an economist or a business friend who's in charge of overseeing mining businesses. With such an illegitimate understanding, there's no way to prevent mining business accidents and murders. There's no way you can stop job killings by making mine engineers, tech guys scapegoats, putting all the blame, responsibility on them, people. Second thing: inspection. In those countries, there are strict inspections made by really competent investigators. And think about it. There are only 565 business inspectors in the Department of Labor and Social Security who are responsible for overseeing more than 1.5 million businesses, and they're not experts. I know the chemical engineer who inspects the mines in practice, I know that economics-educated business inspectors come and inspect the mines; they pretend to inspect them. The third issue is: In Turkey, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, tasked with inspecting the minefields, 235 employees oversee over 25,000 license zones. Now can you understand how serious the control in Turkey is, how informal it is? With that understanding, it's impossible to solve these things, my friends. The government will know its responsibility first. Look, there was an incident at Soma, and I spoke on this stand after the incident. Now, all the doubts about the way that happened in Soma have been lifted, and what I said on this stand has been confirmed with an expert witness report. And now I'm saying about Ermenek, and I'm saying that the accident at Ermenek was the result of the flood of water from an old production. I said. The Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, who had never worked underground in his life, stood up, where he tried to draw public attention from the mines to the courthouse corridors, where he tried to direct the investigation the prosecutor had to conduct. A month and a half ago, they declared the female mining engineer guilty. Mr. Secretary, what are the members of the Department of Mines who won't give us the map of the production? On October 29th, Mr. Ilhan Cihaner, Mr. Gökhan Morning and I went there. There was no rescue effort. When I wanted to see the manufacturing map from the rescue team, they said there was no map of the shipment. Where? The engineer who entered that prison said to me: "You are our colleague. He didn't give us the manufacturing map because there's no manufacturing map in the Mining Office. It's a map of productions made in the construction process. Now, how will the engineer know if there's any old manufacturing there without that map? The Department of Mine was gonna give it to him when he signed up. I hereby declare that the first state responsible for the accident in Ermenek is the government's reflection, the General Directorate of Mines. I'm saying this as an engineer. I'm hearing now that a new manufacturing map is being activated in court, days after the incident. Our tech friends are passing on how that map was made. You guys can't avoid accidents like this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] These accidents are not prevented by concealing the cause and those responsible. Therefore, what needs to be done is to change the mentality of working health and job safety first, not to forget that the worker is human. In the process of production, I say it should be considered that a man is not just a meta where the labor force is bought and sold, but a man of honor. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0049par0418	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Against you, Silver House MP Kemalettin Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0050par0422	Mr. President, I have been promised to express my opinion on the parliamentary inquiry motion submitted by HDP. In 3/3/1976, as a 14-year-old middle school student, I would like to start my words as a mine worker and a mining city of the Silver House, MP, and not only in the mine, but in all business accidents, controlled and preventable accidents, to receive mercy, and finally to our brothers and sisters in Ermenek, and Soma. The heart never desires another human being to be lost in accidents that man can prevent. And I would like to share here that you are responsible, as a 14-year-old mining worker, for all the measures that are in place of living, all the measures that are in place for the execution. The parliamentary research motion was issued at an old time, given when needed, but when it came to the agenda today, we also see that our brothers and sisters have been subjected to these accidents in the last few days. In May, after the loss of 301 brothers and sisters in Soma, there is a Parliamentary Research Commission to investigate the mining accidents established by the common opinion of our Parliament, in order to determine the work health and safety measures that should be taken in this sector, and we believe that the Parliamentary Research Commission will present its views with the General Assembly in a short period of time, and the General Assembly will agree to do so according to the products provided by this study. Of course, the Parliamentary Research Commission is under way, but in the meantime, we're forced to understand that our government is working rapidly on measures that must be taken with Ermenek, especially after the Soma accident, that legislature is doing what needs to be done in public, that the human factor, or that the capital is doing public tasks, and that it's difficult to understand the lack of measures that it has done in order to increase its own revenues in order to exploit labor. For this reason, our entire nation, who live within the borders of the Republic of Turkey, knows whether to increase the revenues of this capital on human labor or to stand upright against the exploitation of violent capitalism. In this direction, especially with the rapid implementation of the last measures explained by our Prime Minister, in addition to the Ministry's doing its job in these accidents, the family's presence at the scene of the accident and the person who caused these measures to be incomplete will be asked about his account, especially because we believe that the Parliamentary Commission will continue its work, Mr. Taner Yıldız, and that it is on its way to our Minister of Labor and Social Security and to our government, the President of our government, Mr. Davutoglu, who will never tolerate these matters, and whose arm will be cut off or whose bread will be taken away from his hands; because we believe that we have full faith in order to continue today's Commission's research, and that everything is on its way today's on its way, and that it's on it's on its on its way to the way. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0051par0429	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group proposal to your votes: All in favor...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0052par0432	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0053par0433	Those who agree... after saying...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0051par0434	Those who don't agree... there's not enough of a decision.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0054par0435	He wasn't asked to...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0053par0436	Then he told me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0055par0437	No, he said it at the same time.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit01spe0056par0438	No, but... they asked for the number of decisions. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit02spe0056par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 13th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The vote of the People's Democratic Party Group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse...
tbmm-2014-11-12sit02spe0057par0005	There are 116 people, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit02spe0056par0006	We'll do it with an electronic device, and I don't see it. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0056par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 13th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the second vote of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, the decision was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's enough to make a decision. HDP group proposal has not been accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I'm going to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 12/11/2014 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. Tripoli MP M. Volcano Canalioglu and 23 lawmakers have proposed a parliamentary survey of parliament, which was submitted on 24/10/2014 to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in order to determine the measures that should be taken by investigating the problems of fishing activity. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations on Wednesday 12/11/2014 and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. In favour of the proposal, Tripoli MP Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Canalioğlu.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0058par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the CHP group regarding the problems of water products co-operatives and fishermen. Vira Bismillah.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0059par0024	There's a very serious hum in the hall, Mr. President. I can't hear the preacher from the hum in the living room.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0058par0025	Yes, my dear President, Mr. President, a lot of humming.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0060par0026	Congressmans, would you please be quiet? We'd like to hear more of our MPs on the stand, please.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0058par0027	Now that you've given me the roll call, you can have tea, but let's hear it, folks, let's hear some of these fishers' problems.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0060par0028	Here you are, Mr. Canalioğlu.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0058par0029	Yeah... Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the CHP group regarding the problems of water products co-operatives and fishermen. As I salute the High Assembly, I say "Vira Bismillah." Precious lawmakers have four ecological seas, 200 natural lakes, 293 dam lakes, 1,000 ponds and 8,333km of sea shorelines, 33 rivers surrounded by sea and three sides of the world. Although our country has its own ecosystem, its rich water supply, and its most important seas in the world, it causes fishermen to fail to get to the sea because they can't get the efficiency they want. Among the main reasons is the lack of long-term management, strategy and plans for implementation. In particular in the 1980s, the development of our country's social and economic areas has led to a massive process of decomposition, away from its natural nature, as well as poor management of coastal resources -- in this case -- to the negative change of the marine ecosystem. As a matter of fact, for many years in coastal areas, the search for land and land roads has been filled with land gains, the lack of food for coastal structures, such as spurs, sea breakers, fishing shelters, and ports, the dumping of solid and liquid wastes of cities and industrial companies into the seas, the sand, gravel furnaces, dense and unconscious fisheries that have been operating near the coast, is one of the main reasons for this condition. As a result, many species of fish have been extinct in five parts of our country, surrounded by seas, depending on the pollution and fault fishing in the sea in 32 provinces of our country, the East Black Sea Region, the Western Black Sea Region, the Sea Area, the Aegean Region, and the Mediterranean Region. As fishermen suffered significant loss of income, our country began to lose its largest source of trust, while in our country 90 percent of water products are obtained from the seas. The Black Sea provides 81 per cent of the fish production from the seas, 11% of the Black Sea, Marmara, 5 per cent of the Aegean, 3 per cent of the Mediterranean. I'd like to give you a few of the fish species that were hunted in 2013: Hamsi 179,615 tons, acorn 13.157 tons, sardines 23.919 tons, istavrit 21.817 tons, lüfer 5,225 tons, haddock 9.396 tons. Dear lawmakers, as in many parts of the world, are undoubtedly the oldest and densest users of the coastal areas in Turkey. As such, fishermen are unable to cope with their professional problems individually. Fishing cooperatives have been established to support the ministry, as well as the ministry, in order to improve socioeconomic conditions, to combat illegal hunting. Fishermen, who are in solidarity and gathered under a co-opative roof, strive to eliminate the problems of fishing, as well as to sustain fish stocks and fishing communities. There are still 576 water products cooperatives in our country and 16 regional unit co-operatives. The Union's co-operatives have come together to form the Water Products Central Union. There are 31,137 fishermen organized in water products co-ops. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is not a number to be underestimated. On 16 June, it was adopted by the International Fishermen's Organization, the ICFO, as the Seoul Declaration and International Fishing Cooperatives Day in 2010. The key tasks of co-operatives are to market fish produced by partners. However, they do not find such an opportunity to pay commissions during the sale of fish, so it is preferred to work with brokers who have the best contribution to the fisherman. In addition, the small fisherman, who works as a cooperative fisherman, leaves at least five pieces of fishing nets at sea because of sea pollution, garbage and currents, and also suffers significant financial loss. In addition to the fuel costs of his boat, the fisherman receives shelter money as well as income. Among other things, the lack of a place to sell their own fish is a major problem. Fish prices are also set for the day because of lack of supervision, with poaching and fish coming in from the outside, the price has left the fisherman in complete difficulty under many economic burdens. Members of lawmakers, one of the reasons why fishing is not developed in Turkey after this general statement is that many problems, such as the lack of fish in our seas, the lack of ocean fishing, the lack of transportation and storage, the implementation of harmful hunting methods such as dynamite explosions, troll hunting, preventing contamination in our seas, preventing fisheries. To answer these questions, open sea fishing should be done, and honeywater fishing should be encouraged, harmful fishing methods should be prevented, coastal pollution should be prevented, modern fishing methods should be implemented, storage and refrigeration tools should be increased, as well as cultural fishing should be supported and improved. I believe our proposals for this solution, of course, are well-known in the Ministry. Why is the water products industry in Turkey in crisis, although sometimes all these proposals are known? Isn't that the result of the crisis, the unplanned hunting, the overdrawn stocks and the lack of politics? In this context, why hasn't Turkey been an open-sea fisherman for years? So far, for 12 years, why hasn't the ministry agreed to a fishing agreement with other countries, particularly Africa and Asia? The state pays to reduce fishing boats. What good would that do in a country where water products are almost out of stock? Why are sea preserves not declared in Marmara and the Black Sea in order to increase the supply of water products? Why is marine pollution, one of the effects that reduces the production of water products, still not being fought? In many coastal areas, domestic waste still travels to the sea, thus disrupting fish's eggs and breeding grounds. What measures will the relevant Ministry take or take in the face of a reduction in stocks due to illegal hunting, unsupervised hunting and excessive hunting? Why is it that water products controls do not have sufficient personnel in fish extraction areas? Why has the European Union's restrictions on Turkish trout exports not been blocked? How will the victims of trout producers be compensated? That's what we need to find answers to all these questions, valuable lawmakers. In a moment, I think our friends will be able to discuss the group proposal after me. In fact, fishermen and water products co-ops are in straits, living under difficult circumstances, and as a result, our fish stocks are dwindling every day. Small fishermen, fishermen who hunt fishermen, leave their nets at sea and suffer financial damage. The upper structures of the fishing shelters are not yet complete enough, as they are, but they are again being earmarked for extra income, which puts the fishermen in a difficult position. Here we are, dear MPs, waiting for the support vote of our esteemed deputies, who are serving in the High Assembly, to find out the answers to all these questions, and what our country deserves for fishing, to investigate what our co-operatives can do more effectively. We started with the term "fisher," and I end with the term "fisher" -- come on, it's random. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0061par0043	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Against Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan, but no, after that... Okay. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0062par0046	Thank you, Mr. President. It's not easy, there's budget talks upstairs, the Plan and Budget Commission, and we'll run it and run it. Of course, I assume you promised me, Mr. President, that on October 13, 2011, we gave the House a motion to investigate the problems of fishing, and I gave it to him myself, and I gave it to him last semester. I mean, noting that this needs to be investigated and how important it is to the country's economy... of course, our view here, of course, is that such an investigation would be done, the House would make such a decision. This is where I'm calling the AK PARTY friends, and to the President of the Agriculture Commission, and to Mr. Arinc, I also say to him, "Don't really vote against such a thing just because one of the opposition parties has brought it." So, my advice to you is that once your eyes see better, if you eat fish, your health will be better, your cholesterol will improve. So, now, here, here, in the Black Sea, in the Mediterranean, in the Aegean, in the Marmara, and in Thrace, all the MPs of the provinces that are adjacent to the sea, if they really want to be useful to their own provinces, they're going to take their hands out of here. In fact, I suggest to the opposition lawmakers, prepare something written, turn it into an open vote, no matter who voted against it, the election is already coming in 2015, so let's bring this man up against these fish, this man against these fish... let's talk about this. Now I won't be able to access the data from here. How do I get in, I already told you if you click on my research motion. So there's a sea surface over 10 million hectares of water. 8.33 kilometers of beach -- friends gave us these data -- and then we came to our rivers, 178,000 kilometers; our lakes, our dams -- and add Bahrevan, the sea of Van, and add Casparian, and add to it the Keban Dam, and what was done. I'm from Şırnak, add the Tigris, add the Nerdus, add the Habur, add the Hezil Tea, add the Botan Tea, we have dams, and when you add them, all of Turkey must have a law of lakes, rivers, and seas, no longer leave them on the trolls. There are fishermen who are devastated by unconscious hunting. Fishermen's cries are one thing. Look, Turkey hasn't passed the European Union chapter yet, number 13. It's the fishing part. Mr. Commissioner, if only you'd told me here, why didn't you get past fishing? Come on, you can't pass freedom, you can't pass justice, you can't go from fishing to entering a division of Europe. You're always gonna bang me in class? God bless you. I mean, sometimes you're surprised. Now, look, there's 16,500 boats, 40,000 crewmen actually working. Maybe Torlak explained these numbers, but he told more about the ship's industry. Now there are 2,000 industrial fishermen in coastal fishing, 350 boats over 40 meters in 2,000. And there are five boats that hunt in the open sea, over 70 meters. I guess Torlak makes them, too, so I'm guessing that's what the Black Seas do. Now we're going to get out of here: they're making concessions to get into the European Union, bring in boats over 10 meters [10 m], and we're going to give a little extra money. They're going to pull boats out of hunting and allow the fish to breed. Is there such an upside-down logic in the world, friends? Is that even possible? Is that even possible? You take the ship over 10 meters, you print the money... Who's doing this? Department of Agriculture and Animalism. Where does he do it? Director General of Fishing and Water Products. He takes it, he pays it. E, the fisherman didn't win, the season went bad, he owes money, he owes money to the bank, the bank's in foreclosure. What's he gonna do? After that, he has to sell and give. What's the government doing? He's turning his ship into fuel, tearing it apart, burning its boards. Is such a waste possible, such cruelty? Look, my friends, this state has no control over its sea, its land, its mountain, its ports, its rivers, its government and its Assembly. I'm telling you, the government doesn't own it. Look, we offered to organize. As a party, we said: "Build a ministry of sailors, my friends." Let the ministry of marine affairs cover all issues related to the sea; the ministry of naval affairs from ships, registration; here, from crew documents, from purchase, from sale, from fishing, from coasts, from the environment, from the sea... (E, what are you doing?) Fear God, and go to Akkuyu, and build a nuclear plant in Akkuyu, and kill all the fish, and let the people go. Not enough, you're leaving, you're building a nuclear power plant in the Black Sea. It's not enough, you're trying to build the third power plant in Pinada, on the border with Bulgaria. Now, look, with this mentality, you dry the Black Sea basin, where most of Turkey's fish are produced, along with the arrival of lead poisons from the Danube, which throw their waste into the sea, because the most fish emerges in the East Black Sea and West Black Sea. This is the result of the fish that came out in Marmara, in the Aegean, in the Mediterranean. Now, friends, let's have a good talk. Where were the problems with fishing before? Transport was under the Undersecretary of Naval Affairs. What does the Ministry of Transport have to do with seafood? Then they translated it, brought it to Agriculture, Fisheries and Water Products General Directorate. I swear to you, look, here's the ruling party here, the government, the Deputy Prime Minister, bring in the bureaucrats from the Department of Water Products in this Agricultural Ministry, and, uh, we'll line up here and ask for a trial. If he separates lufer from kephali, if he separates the hamster from the istavrit, if he separates the crayfish from the crab, look, friends -- if he separates the octopus, I'm not Hasip Kaplan. They don't know, brother, now you bring these men and bring men to look after the sheep and have them look at the fish. Would that be such a mistake, friends? And then there's the heroic civilian fishermen, and I want to say hello from here, and they started a campaign called how many centimeters do you have, and they saved the lüfer of the Bosphorus, my friends, they saved the acorn. Now, we need to develop such a conscious society. The new Department of Agriculture has started symposiums. Guys, you're doing it wrong. If you do not make this environmental arrangement, the coastal arrangement, if you do not build a five-star hotel on the shore and obey the foundations of cultural fishing again, the European Union will not open you up to the 13th Moroccan. It's not that. Look, it's time for anthrax. Turkey is the favorite food of all fish and humans. Well, for the sake of the ham, e hey President of Tripoli, e hey Prime Minister of the Consolidated, I'm asking you, fish have to have law in you.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0063par0059	President Rizeli.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0062par0060	The memory of the fish is small. Don't say that. He looks at you with such eyes that he will never forgive the Black Sea people. He will not forgive the Black Seas, neither will he forgive those who have fish by his shore, by his lake, and by his river. Come on, let's check it out. Well, that's the wealth of Turkey, let's keep it. If we own this, Turkey wins, your party wins, it's not my party, it's not mine. And come on, let's delay the fishermen's bank loans, let's have three years of state support, limit fishing, and three years of fish-dollar seas, my friends, work that much. And those trolls, with the political trolls, you have to grab hold of the fishing trolls and expose them. Fishing survives, the country survives. Greetings, friends. Aha, I'm going to take a picture of those who don't raise their hands here, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0064par0064	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On the other hand, Istanbul MP Durmis Ali Torlak. Here you go, Mr. Torlak.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0065par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on behalf of the Republican People's Party's Party's motion to investigate and investigate problems in the fisheries and water products sector in our country. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the fish project is an undisputable food product of nutrition and human health, as important as its infinite financial contribution and added value to the national economy. It is also an economic resource that can provide jobs for our people, especially on our shores, in areas of water products and fishing water, where unemployment problems are increasing day by day. Because water products are a labor-based endeavor for production and hunting, increasing production and raising it to the desired level is an industry that can create jobs for many and contribute to the country's economy. However, a method that would shed light on the regeneration of economically important fish stocks has not been developed, but has not been developed, has not been given the ability to hunt in international waters for industrial hunting. As a result, natural resources in our seas have largely lost their former productive power due to both excessive hunting and pollution. On the other hand, unfair competition, support and incentives in the sector are among the major problems of the fishing sector, with lack of education and lack of proper use. Fishing co-ops, which have been around the world and have taken on many legal functions, have unfortunately not been recovered from the appearance of signs cooperatives that have been met in our country in the general boards. The development of fishing and the improvement of fisheries' prosperity have often caused trouble for the industry to understand that many members of the fisheries co-optive, mostly by side, are working with small boats, often by side, as amateur fishermen, are set up with a goal that brings together the interests of the industry's hunting, processing, breeding or marketing activities. In addition, when it is governed rationally, the fish, whose project is an infinite and important source of food, is a branch of science that requires high discipline and must be governed in the light of this science. However, even though we have three coastal seas and one inland sea, including Marmara, there should be an official fishing station with a physical institutional structure on this shoreline, it could provide ideas for local fish, but these needs were not even on the agenda for fishing investment policies from 1972, except for the two research organizations found in Tripoli and Antalya. However, I'd like to remind you of the Basement Water Product Research Institute. This institution was first one of the sponging research, then its name was changed, and it was a school where fishers from our most important seas in the Aegean Region had a cure for their problems. Unfortunately, this school has been shut down by the AKP government. For more than 30 years, an institution with all the scientific work and publications for the sector has been closed to almost the entire sector, so this policy reveals the AKP government's approach to science and scientists. In this case, no doubt, it has not been understood that the management in charge of fishing 600km from the sea was responsible for setting up arrangements at the desk. So, these negative processes that have been going on over the years have put our fisheries industry in a difficult position, adding the no-fishing ban from 15 April to the end of August, and the problem that our professional fisherman tradesman who works fishing has become even bigger. Dear lawmakers, it is essential that the method of hunting, which should be considered for the sustainability of fish species, which are of economic importance in our seas, be detected in the light of scientific data on how and how to do it. But fishing organizations around the world have cooled off on researchers and their suggestions. Because with his suggestions, researchers will surely bring a limitation or arrangement. In fact, they are repulsive to the fishermen who want to produce more than the seas; this is what happened yesterday, and this is what will happen tomorrow. Therefore, members of the fishing and water products co-opters channel must be persuaded on reasonable scientific grounds for the type of networking and hunting methods needed to be used, and long-term credit ease should be brought into consideration by taking into account economic powers. The nets used by random fishing in the Bosphorus and Çanakkale will contribute to the sustainability of our country's fishing, providing simple and fanciful nets, adapted to the size of Pelagic fish, considering the negative impact for the stocks, as they have yet to reach sexual maturity because the nets used by random fishing in the straits of Istanbul and Çanakkale are small. However, troll fishing must be reviewed under the light of science by the Director General of Fishing and Water Products, allowing them to become competitive and sustainable hunters. In addition, it is possible that some seven lower species of kephal fish in our seas have been upgraded to a position that can adapt to today's conditions by updating their hunting bans, hunting methods, and methods. Only two months of industrial fishing in Marmara and the Black Sea, except in the areas in which the Çanakkale Strait was forbidden to hunt for twelve months in and out of the territory of the Marmara and the Black Sea, should be made during a process that will continue until the restoration of fish stocks in the Black Sea. On the other hand, we need to bring our fishing economy to the Aegean Sea and from there to the international water migration of stocks of acorns and lufers that are in the Marmara Sea and have high economic value. Precious lawmakers must be restored to a sustainable fishing and water products structure, especially free of politics, modern, scientific research, as well as the establishment of the general managership of the sector in Turkey. This autonomous structure must be crowned with a suitable budget, considering the high production data from the past production of fish, as well as its contribution to the country's economy and the non-national product. At the point where national policies can be implemented, fishing technologies must be ensured that engineers and water products engineers are more employed at the Ministry General Directorate for Fisheries and Water Products. The technical and expert employment of the sector is an important requirement for a healthy development. Because in the near future, our country and the world are being told by all scientists that fishing and water products are moving toward far more dire points than today's situation. Thus, the habits of corrupt order management must be put aside, and under technical and expert personnel control, a balance between big fishermen and small fishermen should be set to a minimum of damage to fishing. Dear lawmakers have stated that the orator before me, the boats that were built, were made by us. I was a friend of yours from the shipyard until 2007, and I'd build three ships a year by 2007, and I'm sorry to say -- maybe one of you can get out -- I didn't even build a boat. And that's because I think I've been tagged, and it doesn't matter, because I made the stuff, and I'm gonna lose it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0066par0079	Thank you, Mr. Torlak. Against you, Giresun MP Adam Dessert. Here you go, Mr. Dessert.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0067par0083	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the grand jury. I have made a pledge against the CHP Group's motion to set up a parliamentary research commission to investigate the problems of fishing, one of the major livelihoods of the Black Sea Region, and to determine the measures to be taken. Precious lawmakers, the production of water products in 2012 was a total of 134 million tonnes in the world's hunting sector, 67 million tonnes in farming, while in 2013 it was 374,000 tonnes in hunting and 233,000 tonnes in farming. From 2002 to 2013, water products have increased our number of active facilities by 89 per cent, while capacity has increased by 826 per cent to 460,000 tonnes. Our production has increased by 282 per cent to 233,000 tons. In parallel with the increase in production, our exports are about four times higher. In 2002, our exports amounted to 27,000 tons, reaching 11,000 tons in 2013, and reaching $568 million in value from $97 million. The export of water products in 2013 increased by 28 per cent compared to the previous year and 27.5 per cent in value. Water products were also supported by our government from 2003 to 2003, and 941m euros were transferred from 2003 to 2013. Sustainability has been negatively affected, since the imbalance between the stockpile of water products in our seas and the hunting fleet has created excessive hunting pressure on resources. Thus, in 2012, we implemented an important application. According to volunteering, the owners of the fishing ship above 40 feet were paid to support their ships according to the length of the ship in exchange for their removal from hunting. The owner of 364 fishing vessels, which benefit from this support, was paid $62.1 million. In 2013, the scope of support was further expanded, including fishing vessels over 10 metres in support. We're offering a total of $67 million to the owners of 529 fishing vessels in the application. Right now, the ship is surrendering and paying off. In 2014, the owner of 264 fishing vessels applied. To reduce the cost of input, our fishermen in hunting activities have been introduced as of 2004, without an EVR fuel application. To date, our fishermen have been supported by more than 1 billion TL. In other words, the money from our fishermen is in the pockets of our fishermen. The number of water products and fishing technology engineers, which were 318 in 2002, has increased by 1.067% in our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, with an increase of 1.067. In addition, with the 2006 arrangement, each company with 50 tons and more capacity is obliged to operate at least 1 water products engineer in each incubator. Around 2,600 water products and fishing technology engineers are employed in the private sector. We've established a water products information system so hunting and breeding can be monitored effectively. With the national fishing data collection programme put into practice, hunting activities are closely monitored during the season. Between 2002-2013, about 61 million young carp fish were left to water sources in various cities. Of the species endangered by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, 10,000 sturgeons were produced and left to sea by 5,000 Black Sea trout. In 2012, the Edremit Bay Pilot Project continued to monitor and protect and improve biological diversity, improve habitats, increase production, prevent poaching and support of coastal fishing with Artificial Reefs. In our provinces of Adana, Hatay, Istanbul and Mughla, the Project for the Purge of Seas from Abandoned Hunting Tools was implemented to prevent pollution and damage caused by hunting vehicles lost during the hunt. In 2014, a fully equipped 32-metre Search-1 survey and control vessel was launched for monitoring, researching fish stocks in our seas and active fishing controls, including international waters. Twenty-five of the fishing vessels that were removed from the hunting fleet were donated to our universities' water products faculty and research organizations for research and training. In 43 counties, the department of water products was established. The sector has been provided with more effective services, with the establishment of residency branch managers who will only work on water products. The measures we take, the policies we implement, the right management of stocks, are to implement an application that will allow our children and grandchildren to hunt fish in the future. Therefore, we have to focus more on breeding and improve fish breeding. Our government is implementing policies to move fishing to a better point, to use the sea and its resources in the sea correctly. The fish in the sea will, of course, hunt, but if we dry this spring today, our fishermen will not be able to find fish for their children tomorrow. So we need to protect our resources at the same time. We're setting up a new headquarters at the Center Research Institute for Water Products in Tripoli. This center is important for the future of our fishing. This is the first time we've built a water products gene bank biotechnology center. This project is worth five million liras, and the project phase is complete, the source transfer has been made, and it will begin construction shortly. Our goal in hunting is to maintain the balance of protection and use and to manage and operate resources within the principles of sustainability. For this reason, the principle of sustainability has been highlighted in our hunting management by adopting a more protective approach. I've made this point in my entire conversation here because of fishing, but I can't help but say that the AK PARTY governments have gone a very important distance throughout agriculture. Turkey is a country that meets the food needs of about 77 million people and 35 million tourists and exports 1,681 agricultural products to 192 countries. With an average growth of 2.3 per cent in the agriculture sector over the past 11 years, the European Union has grown 10 times more than 0.24 per cent. We are the world's 6th largest agricultural country, and we are the largest agricultural country in Europe. Therefore, I have made a pledge against the CHP Group's motion, and I am against the motion. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0068par0102	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit03spe0069par0103	There is a demand for roll call before the Republican People's Party Group's proposal. Mr. Altay, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Tanay, Mr. Öner, Mr. Öğün, Mr. Özsel, Mr. Öz, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Serter, Mr. Atcı, Mr. Turkkan, Mr. Çam, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Captain, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Yilmaz. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit04spe0069par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 13th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Before the Republican People's Party Group voted on the proposal, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, that I shall have it read and processed and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday 12/11/2014 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President This section of Law Bills 464, 638, 432, 610 and 612, which are included in the section "Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" of the agenda, has to be taken to the rankings 5, 15, 16, 17 and 18. Besides weekdays, it's Friday, November 14, 2014, 2:00 p.m. 11/38 (11/39) and the main Gensoru Conventions (11/39), which are being distributed and distributed at 00, were to be placed on the agenda of Friday (November 14th 2014) to the 1st and 2th place of "Accessions on Special Age" on Friday (November 14th) and to keep the talks on whether or not the 99th article of the Constitution will be taken into the agenda, until their talks are completed. On Tuesday (November 18th 2014), the merger of verbal questions was not discussed until the completion of the talks on the work of the Law Bill 432 rows; Until the meeting of Wednesday (November 19th 2014), until the meeting of the Law Bill 610, when the talks were completed; Until Thursday, November 20, 2014, the meeting of the talks of the Law Proposal No. 641 was completed; It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. At 00 a.m., it has been suggested that the daily schedules continue to work until the completion of the day-to-day programs if they cannot be completed. In favour of the proposal, İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit04spe0070par0031	Mr. President, I have made a promise to express my views in favor of the AK PARTY group proposal. On this occasion, I salute your high council. My dear friends, the group's proposal suggests that this week's working days and hours of the Turkish Grand National Assembly will be replaced by the hours of the week's work hours and a number of jobs on the agenda. This framework recommends meeting with Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Mr. Taner Yıldız on Friday about Minister of Labour and Social Security Faruk Çelik. Again, some international contracts are recommended to take the lead. We have an international contract for Macedonia, which is ranked five. Under this agreement, there is a problem with the delay of the contract with the Leaded Han, which will be assigned to our Yunus Emre Cultural Centre by the state of Macedonia. So, by moving this forward, hopefully, by signing a bilateral agreement, we'll be able to overcome this problem. I await your support for our proposal, and salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit04spe0071par0036	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Against you, Sinop MP Engin Altay.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit04spe0072par0038	I've handed it over to Kadir Gökmen Öğüm. Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit04spe0071par0039	Mr. Öğüt, İstanbul MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit04spe0073par0042	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, the effort by the ruling party in parliament, which depends on the number of fingers and the arbitrary application and change of agendas, is deflecting the Council's main agenda and disrupting its work. Against these serious countermeasures, we, the opposition party, would like to point out that we disagree with this motion. We'd like you to vote that this motion be rejected. My fellow lawmakers, in addition to this matter, I would like to tell you about an unpleasant incident that took place here two days ago at the Validebagak. We've only been witnessing for a few days that the internal security bill has been in effect without law in the House. As a matter of fact, the bill is based on constant anxiety, intimidation, and tagging rather than on keeping the community under surveillance. The public is trying to be bullied with a stick on top of the criminal without being identified. Mr. Davutoglu's declaration of martial law in the city prior to the visit to Amasya is also an epiphany for the identity of the civil police to question the identity of the tradesman at GBT. Another example occurred in Adana. The author of the book "Fuat Avni" was taken into custody on grounds of reasonable doubt. Who will decide whether reasonable doubt exists? Prosecutors who almost owe Turkey to Reza Sarraf? These regulations have nothing to do with law, science. In Turkey, laws are based on politics, not law. Politicians who are afraid of their own people, who can't stand it, are doomed to come and die under the power of that people. In addition to this bill, after it was announced that some police chiefs would retire, we see that police chiefs who wish to gain the favor of the government are out of commission by their actions against citizens, lawmakers doing their jobs. You know, for 25 days, our citizens have been resisting construction on the green site because it's illegal. The building is being built by dragging the mayor's hair through the midnight operation -- despite all resistance -- of the neighborhood and of our citizens -- which he described as horny. My dear friends, here again, on the day before yesterday, the attacks of the security forces continued at full speed. Following a press release, residents of the neighborhood who were on watch received and were beaten by police for the violence of pressured water and gas bombs. After the attack, police chased those who escaped from the gas for minutes on Main Street. He arrested those who took refuge in the gas-based parking lot by using reverse handcuffs from here. The police also accused them of slandering Molotovkottey. The people in custody were severely insulted in the vehicle. A total of 15 people were taken into custody, and the reporter of the Cumhuriyet daily had eight stitches in his head. Cumhuriyet daily reporter said he was targeted. The police are not afraid to use the power they receive from their ruling and executives in a brutal manner. In response to my response to violence against the residents, Police Commissioner Suat Ekici has made insults, accusations, and threats against me, which have been brought to the press. At the end of these threats, the Minister of the Interior, the AKP executives, who have not dropped the word "national will," nor the representative of the national will, Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek, have been kind enough to make a single phone call. I want to warn the cops here. There's no way you're going to get in the way of power by doing this. The power is always using you temporarily. You did the same thing in the travel events, what did the Prime Minister say at the time? They wrote the legend of Çanakkale, our heroic police. Three months passed, four months passed, and because of the police, there were riots, parallel police. He said, "These are all police officers." I mean, the only thing he did was in those cops' house of shame. That's what's being done here. The police chief here used the police force to lure the locals, the elderly women, the residents, into the eyes of the locals with pepper spray, dragging them to the ground. There's the word "elected" written all the time. The AKP, who has been doing victim literature on the appointed thing for years, said it was one of the chosen and was a victim, did not have the slightest part of the attack on opposition MPs. I want an investigation into that police commissioner again, and I'm reporting that we're going to press charges. I want the elected will to declare a reprimand against the attack on the MPs of Cemil Cicek, the chairman of parliament. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit04spe0074par0053	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. In your favor, Istanbul MP Osman Love Bak. Here you go, Mr. Bak.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit04spe0075par0057	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I made a commitment in favor of the AK PARTY group proposal. In our group proposal, some international contracts are expected to be placed at the front of the agenda. Secondly, the main number (11/38), issued by parliament, is about Energy and Natural Resources Minister Taner Yıldız (11/39), and (11/39), the main number of proposals for the gene-responsive motions on Mr Faruk Çelik, Minister of Labor and Social Security, on Friday (November 14th). It is recommended to meet at 00. The group announces that I'm in favor of our proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit04spe0076par0062	Thank you, Mr. Bak. Against him, Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat is not afraid. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit04spe0077par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised to speak against the AKP group proposal. I salute your committee. Dear MPs, the responsibility of running the Parliamentary General Assembly in accordance with the country's agenda and the Civil Code, as you all know, belongs to the majority in parliament, the AKP Group. It is expected that the AKP, which has not dropped forward democracy and has constantly criticised the one-party leadership of 70 years ago, will act in accordance with democratic rules in these matters, both to set an agenda and to ensure that the opposition contributes to debates during negotiations in the General Assembly. Of course, we're saying this as a wish, but where is it? Each passing day, the AKP has set a course that seeks to discredit itself by ignoring the opposition, with its head bent in front of it, constantly moving forward. Dear lawmakers, the agenda of the Assembly General Assembly has been changed almost every day. That could mean two things. If we're innocent comments, it might be said that the AKP has no plan, that it is trying to grope its way into the meadow in the dark, as if it were a meadow. Another meaning is that it is much more critical: to catch the opposition unprepared by constantly changing the agenda and constantly shifting the agendas, and to make these talks around the closing hours of Parliament television. Here, see, on Friday, there are two ministers to discuss the geneorization; one of the most important opportunities to enlighten the citizen in the hands of the opposition in connection with parliamentary control. He wants to see you on Friday, the Justice and Development Party. Why? Because the Capitol TV is off on Friday. Then I'd like to ask the ministers. In fact, if you have no concern or concern about what's happening to the citizens, you have to ask for it yourself, and give us the opportunity to defend the television when it's on, and we'll transfer our thoughts to our nation. Even this means that the AKP will demonstrate its pluralistic democratic understanding. A few days ago, I was consulted with groups, and there was a law passed here about pharmaceuticals in seven minutes. I mean, I mean, if the Justice and Development Party Group, the majority of Congress, could understand the importance of consultation, believe me, on behalf of the people, we'd make a lot of time for Congress, but I've got a majority count, and I don't need you, and I don't need your contributions. Your father -- like I said -- sees it as a one-base match fit for his own and democratic understanding. Dear friends, we're dealing with an AKP government that is constantly wasting time on the country. It means that after losing the case in court, the inequity, like the blame on the courts, the judges, is constantly obstructing the work. Look, the opposition is not in the way of work, but when you consider the opposition and consult with them -- counting the minutes -- it can show opposition to how the law is passed. Dear friends, the AKP proposal includes ratification of the agreements on Yunus Emre cultural centers in other countries in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The National Movement Party sees it as appropriate to move forward and will take a positive stance in its vote, due to its responsible view of opposition and the necessity to act together outside the country. I'm sorry, but we're just laughing at the fact that the hours of work have been changed until the end. Because we're gonna be here, guys, but I'm pretty sure you're not gonna get enough meetings, and you're not gonna get enough decisions. It's been seen over and over again. Again, you will come to the ranks of opposition, friends, help us pass this. I mean, there's no opposition to consultation, but when the provisions you want are discussed in the Assembly General Assembly, my dear opposition to keeping the Parliament open, I think you should clearly adjust your stance. Dear friends, in fact, in recent times, the position, opinion, speech of Deputy Chancellor Davutoglu has been carrying a truly extraordinary, unusual impulsiveness and aggression. The Prime Minister, who should be running the country in a language of respect and reconciliation, is especially slandering the nationalist Movement Party with words that spit blood against him. Someone must have said to Davutoglu: "The more you put on the nationalist Movement Party, the more you get in the eye of Erdogan, so you'll find more faith in you, you'll find more movement, you'll have hope, he'll consult with you in some areas, he'll take your views. Our advice to Mr. Davutoglu is that instead of slandering and slandering the National Movement Party, you must take the time to serve the country, you are there for it, otherwise the cheese boat will not walk. By opposition, the country is horny, our people can't find peace. On the other hand, Mr. Davutoglu is also an academic -- he is expected to do his duty -- with an academic maturity and intellectual integrity, without expecting recognition and appreciation at other doors. Otherwise, when you look at the cemetery where the political dead are buried, you'll see very trusted ministers, highly appointed prime ministers, and people, unfortunately, don't even remember their name. Mr. Davutoglu is concerned about the torture of the coffin to Basbug and his friends, and he keeps saying it, as if he thinks he's going to fool the base of the National Movement Party. Just yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister, wasn't it you who brought Turkish nationalism under the influence of the National Movement Party? In fact, there is no Turkish nation. Wasn't it your traveling companions who said: That's quite a word-teller you've got there. If Basbug and his companions stood up from his grave, they would probably commit this hypocrisy and say that our lawyership was left to people like you who fell into BOP pits? So, defame Basbug and his fellow litigators, slander Turkish nationalism and Turkish nationalism, and commit all kinds of atrocities to doctors, nationalists who say, "I'm a nationalist," and even show insufferability to the government, to the people who have not served their nation as much as he has, and say "Yes" to the late Prime Minister Alparslan Türkesh. Then weep for the 1944 coffin. What do you call it? It's called crocodile tears. Dear MPs, the prime minister said to the National Movement Party, remember again, that instead of criticizing Ermenek, look at the August 17th earthquake. And he was supposed to say to himself, I think, the intelligent people in the AKP, "Oh, let go of this Nationalist Movement Party, so do your job, you're the Prime Minister, you're the executive officer." What did he say? They couldn't reach the area of the depression in a week. Mr. Davutoglu, look, I remind you, we are not the only ones in your own country, in your constituency, in the mine, you still have 16 citizens waiting to be brought to light in that pit, we count every day, today is the 16th day. Mr. Davutoglu, you almost blamed the coal mine's entire crime on the inspectors who drank a cup of tea. Remember, my friends, didn't your Minister of Energy take pictures of the owner of the mine, like a selfie? So, what's this if he's a thief? That table, then, should you call it a haram table? I salute the great nation, instead of you talking to the inspectors, tell your cabinet friends first.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit04spe0078par0081	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit04spe0079par0084	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit04spe0078par0085	There is a demand for roll call before the Justice and Development Party's proposal is voted out. Mr. Altay, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Serker, Mr. Acar, Mr. Özgümis, Mr. Silver, Mr. Pitcher, Mr. Clean, Mr. Akova, Mr. Öz, Mr. Tüçük, Mr. Öğütün, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Korturk, Mr. Onur. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit05spe0078par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 13th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the ruling of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit05spe0080par0007	Mayor, you'd appreciate it if you couldn't get here from commissions in five minutes. This is very clear evidence that you want to close the House, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-12sit05spe0078par0009	[[Investigation continued with electronic device]] Since the second round of roll call was not enough, the decision was made on Thursday (November 13th 2014) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 14 p.m., according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
