tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 14th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Erzincan MP Muharrem Izlu, who wants to talk about Erzincan's problems. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the problems of Erzincan. I salute you all. In Erzincan, four governors have changed in the last five years. Governor Erzincan is on his way to Erzincan, where he is sent to Ankara without knowing the principals. Of course, these governors are being appointed by the government, but for some reason, they don't like the governors, so they're taking them off. Leave him alone, let him warm up, let him get used to it, let him do the work. Of course, since the government's sole purpose is not to eat grapes, because it's to beat the laces, and when it's called service, all you can think of is how many votes are you going to bring me with pressure? How many votes are you going to hand out coal, distribute wood? How much pressure will you put on the villagers to deliver services to the villages? Sadly, the governors are restless because they have an opinion. Especially if the election was lost in four counties, it's hard for the governor to stand there. Let's say he did the opposite to the head of the district, tried to lead Kemaliye to the village of January, made trouble with the gas; immediately he's driven, he can't stay in the district. On the road to the village of January, a rock appeared. Then they said, "This is a forest area. This road has nothing to do with the forest, not a bush. But when you looked on the other side, dozens of trees were cut down in the smoking forests of Rephahiye. In the growing of the very valuable trout there, especially where the red - scalloped trout grew, unfortunately the fish were destroyed and the water was taken elsewhere. In Erzincan, agriculture and livestock are dying. Erzincan is running out of jumpsuit cheese, especially with the latest European Union law of integration. In the middle of summer, the hay started to come in. There's no irrigation, no watering, and it's too expensive, so it's more of a problem. The drought was added this year. WHEN you can't pay with the privatisation of TEDAS, the switches go off. Those who take credit and buy animals are miserable. This year, thankfully, at the feast of sacrifice, some of the animals were expensive, so they saved themselves, and they were spared the flag of bankruptcy. We're struggling to bring services to the villages, our fellow city councillors are struggling, but unfortunately there's no money. Unfortunately, those who have found 4 trillion coins on the fifth plane cannot send money to the second slice of KYODES. Winter's here, and it won't do any good if it comes after this, and it doesn't have a future. And the future money is only three trillion. They're staring at the sugar factory again, putting privatisation in their heads again. They're trying to figure out how to damage it so we can shut down this sugar factory. There hasn't been a nail in the factory in 60 years. There's no workers left to work, they're trying to bring in subcontractors, which is not enough. If it were 10 to 12 trillion dollars, our sugar factory would be renewed, and it would invest very well in both the east and Erzincan, but unfortunately, those who spend 1 quadrillion 370 trillion dollars on illegal palaces see 10 trillions of Erzincana a lot. The beet planter's a mess. For example, a person who puts in 10 squares of beets, if everything goes well, if 16 sugars are good, if he waters it with charm, the money left here is $1,700, if he pumps it, it's only $940. We don't understand how he's gonna spend a year with this money. While raising the president's budget by 99 per cent, you saw a lot of $13 per ton increase in sugar. You didn't cheapen the farmer's electricity, you shut it down the day it came. In Erzincan, if you're from AKP, there is no unemployment problem, but if you're from CHP, the CHP, the MP, the HDP, or the AKP, he's just a voter, but sometimes he's a voice for injustices, he's certainly not getting a job, there's no job. We already know what the government and the government's municipalities are up to. Erzincan is also trying to open up all the land and empty areas. The old terminal, they're looking to replace the new state hospital, and they're trying to get someone to come after them. Again pressure was created to replace the hospital, the terminal began to form the same way. No additional buildings are being built at the research hospital. The emergency part of the state hospital was destroyed, where they promised to build a new one. Mount Ergani was spent trillions of money, four hotels were to be built, but no one came and did it. All over Erzincan, like mushrooms, the TOSI are gushing out, the inferior buildings are being built, and the cost is too high. And the things that were done in the field of the field, and in the grape house, are now in hand, and they take their own shots. Of course, when we say all of this, we say, "Levh-i mafuz" and do our job according to what it says. I'll tell you something else about Erzincan: thanks to our municipality, two sectors have improved in Erzincan, one of which is tire repairmen, tire sellers, and the other one is mechanics. Our municipality has been conducting autocrosses daily for all Erzincan people, especially as a result of hard work in Erzincan for the past three or four years. Our citizens in Erzincan are thanking our municipality for giving such adrenaline a high day. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0003par0023	Thank you, Mr. Light. Second word off the agenda...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0004par0025	Let me answer that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0003par0026	If you'd like to answer now, Mr. Eroglu, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0004par0028	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have been promised to respond to the speeches of Mr. Muharrem Ilton. I salute you all, sir. Sir, of course, Erzincan. Erzincan is a beautiful country where I serve. I also love Erzincan. Moreover, I know Erzincan, for I have served in the long term, and have been a reserve officer for nineteen months. Congressman, our government, in fact, cares deeply for Erzincan (e.g. Erzincan). Of course, there may be flaws, but if you tell us what's missing, we owe it to us to do it. But I'll give you the numbers. Look, Erzincan was a forgotten country in the past, but thanks to you, our law enforcement has invested 5 billion dollars -5 quadrillion dollars - as of last year's end. Here, of course, Mr. Bali has a great service, about 1.8 billion TL transports. But as the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice, Energy and Natural Resources signed on to major investments. And the investments that we've made, you just mentioned irrigation. I mean, we've opened up 80 grand worth of land to water. In fact, you know, there's the Erzincan Dam; citizens, farmers came to me and said: "Ya, let's increase this dam a little bit more, so let's increase the attractive watering area." Of course, my friends told me that this dam is impossible to raise. But personally, I went to its place as an expert, and we raised this dam with a very beautiful solution, and instead of pumping water in a particular area, it began to be charming. Other than that, we also renovated the irrigating grids of 196,210 acres, and so in our time -- I'm giving you a call -- we watered 276,210 land. Look, the watering of the Erzincan Dam, the Tercan Plains, the left coast watering, the Tercan Plains, the right coast watering, the Erzincan left coast watering and regeneration, the Tercan Plain pump watering, the P3 pump main channel supply, we've done this. Besides, you know, Crane is kind of a GAP project. Thank God, in July 2013, we went with our deputies again and laid the foundation of the Craneachia Dam. Hopefully we'll get this done soon, it's going too fast. What's the use of that? 128.870 acres will be watered down. About 7,000 people will benefit from the dam and will receive an increase in revenues of 66 million dollars a year, year after year; this will go into farmers' pockets. So we also, you know, reformed 34 streams in Erzincan. We've protected 5,600 acres from floods. We've protected 4 counties, 3 towns, 21 villages and 1 neighborhoods from riots. Now, as you know, we've planned to build 12 ponds in Erzincan province under 1,000 ponds a thousand days, and we're going to make them fast. I'm not going to go into the details of this so you don't take your time, but I can give you this note. You talked about the woods. Look, Erzincan is poor in the forest. The total area is 14 per cent of the province's area. So Turkey's average is 27 percent. Thus, we are deeply concerned about planting Erzincan. Look, by the end of last year, we've been working 622,070 acres, and we've had 47,600,000 saplings met with soil. In the year 2014, I said, "Let's do it again in Erzincan." And in the end, we're going to build 1.1 million saplings, and we're going to produce 7 million saplings. Schoolyards, hospital courtyards, that's all being done. We're giving O.R.C.A. support. We've started the revenue-producing walnuts, almond action plans. So I'm not going into any of these details just to save you the time. So what I want to say is that we're making an unprecedented investment in the Erzincan, especially in trees, dams, ponds, irrigations. I also want to thank you for your warning, but if there are any loose ends, let us know that it is my duty to make them a military debt of loyalty. With these feelings, I salute you with love.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0005par0043	Thank you, Mr. Eroglu.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0006par0044	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0005par0045	Second word off the agenda, World Quality Day...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0006par0046	Excuse me, Mr. President, I asked for a promise to correct it.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0007par0047	Mr. President, the Minister misunderstood me.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0008par0048	He's the only one who got it, and he got it wrong.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0009par0050	Sir? Excuse me, Mr. Light, I don't understand.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0007par0051	Mr. President, the Minister has misunderstood me. I didn't say anything about it, it was something else I said, so, of course, he said he'd get the opportunity to complain about it in the Civil Charter, but I didn't tell them. I want word on 69, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0010par0052	He didn't mention the grapes of Cumin.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0009par0053	Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0007par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I didn't tell you about those problems with irrigation, especially how expensive the beet-planters watered the fields here. I know where your investments are being invested. We've always appreciated their goodness, their good investments, but today in Erzincan, especially this year, we won't be able to give water to all farmers from the Akbulut Water Association, we won't pay for electricity, we won't plant green. We've been over this before. Last year, there was even a sale on electricity money. But unfortunately, a lot of places didn't plant this year because they couldn't pay for it, so the power would be cut. That's what I said. As for the forest, we have a January village in Kamaliye, a project to build a road to that village. That project later, just because of your president there... a rock was found, there's no forest, you can't see a bush. Since that road was stopped, I brought it up. The other thing, as I said in the smoking forest, was a beautiful, red trout growing. There are pictures of the trees being cut down, I'll show you. The trees were cut down and the fish were destroyed. Otherwise, of course, we know what's better than your work, and we thank you. Oh, that thousand-day pond project says it's better to build ponds with the thousand-day ponds, and in that case, to have more villages, peasants, taken their demands, done according to their wishes, I thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0011par0061	Thank you, Mr. Light. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Malatya MP Ömer Faruk Öz, who asked for a comment on World Quality Day. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0012par0068	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the World Quality Day set by the United Nations to demonstrate the awareness of individual and institution's quality in the world. I hereby salute your high council. We historically have an important historical and profound history in the production of goods and services to the customer. In this framework, the constitution and guild systems are an important legacy of production, customer satisfaction and quality and spirit at the point of human relations. Today, in addition to our sense of historical quality, we need to make an important effort in technology, innovation, RD and branding in the world of today's world, where competition is growing and difficult every day, in accordance with the needs of the age, and to create value in each field. Today, Turkey is making a great effort to raise its quality bar in production. Turqualitity was set up in this frame. The products carrying a Turqualitty label will guarantee the buyer high-quality Turkish goods. So we can boost the quality of Turkish brands in the international market and increase market share. There is one thing at the point of quality, along with the quality of the world's emphasis, that is human quality that gives meaning to all the world's quality. We can't judge quality in terms of materialistic capitalist philosophy that perceives human beings as a means of pure production and consumption. Can we talk about human quality today, if people are still dying of hunger, despite all the opportunities and improvements in the world? If people are excluded from their colors, ethnic structures, or beliefs, how can we express it? If countries are being exploited in front of the world today, and for whatever reason, those who use terrorism as a tool and groups find it, can we talk about quality? Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, we have to make an effort at the human quality point and reflect it on all other outputs, social relations. The most important thing about quality is good morality. Quality people are people who respect people's lives, their property, their honor, their home, their freedom, and their honor. In this sense, we are the original human being. With understanding, we need to work at a quality human growth point, aside from quality production. That should be the main purpose of our work and our policies. As Master Necip Fazil put it, I have the time and the place is entrusted to me. To achieve that goal, we first care about quality in education and equality of opportunity. AK PARTY governments have all their work on the quality of the educational system. During the EC PARTY, the Ministry of National Education received the highest share of the budget. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the quality of the people is fair, they're for sharing and assisting. He does not cheat in scales and commerce, as is his sense of integrity. Quality people are equipped with knowledge, real use of knowledge. Do you know what the bankruptcy of a civilization is, as noted literaryist Ahmet Hamdi Tanpınar put it? A man's a man's a man's a man's a man's a man's a man's a man's a man's a man's a It's the logic of spiritual values that makes a man of civilization. Do you understand the magnitude of the problem now? You're ignorant, you read, you learn; you go backwards, you go forward; no man, you raise him, one day he'll show up; you don't have money, you'll win. But when a man is broken, there is no cure. It is a virtue, as a thinker would say, in life in place, in depth of thought, in generosity in love, in reality in expressions, in order to govern, in action, in the right time. As I put an end to my words, because of World Quality Day, the quality of the world says, "Hopefully, we will make a fine world together." I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0013par0077	Thank you, Mr. Oz. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Tekirdağ MP Candan Yüceer, who asked for a speech due to the anniversary of Tekirdağ's liberation from enemy occupation. Here you go, Mr. Houser.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0014par0082	Today, I have taken an off-the-book promise due to the 92nd anniversary of the liberation of our Tekirdağ from enemy occupation. On 13 November, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk led by the Liberation War was the day of honour for Tekirdağ, who gave life and shouldered women with men and young elders. My countrymen have received the reward of their struggle by gaining their freedom and by saving every square inch of land that is occupied. I'd like to remember our ancestors from here once again with respect and gratitude, who left us this beautiful land and our beautiful knowledge in a great struggle. Our city, Sharköye of Saray, is truly a wonder of nature, by God's grace. With its population of more than 900,000 today, it is a province that will always contribute to the economic and cultural wealth of our country with over 1,500 companies producing national, international markets, 130,000 employees, transportation opportunities, natural, historical, cultural wealth. Tekirdağ is a city that lives for 24/7, so to speak. It's a city that creates against any challenge, continues to invest, pays taxes regularly, contributes to the country's economy, but doesn't get enough of it. Today, he is ranked 9th in the tax code, but is ranked 52nd in the boroughs taking public investments. So the taxes we pay don't come back to us as public investments. There is no doubt that there is injustice to Tekirdağ, to my Tekirdağ people, but not just that. Today our lands and citizens are in great danger. As a result of unplanned and uncontrollable industrialization and urbanization, domestic, industrial and agricultural waste spills poison today into Ergene. Cancer cases have increased in our county, territorial efficiency has dropped. Unfortunately, there is no more watery farming in Ergene, and the underground water is no longer available because of contamination. For twelve years, we have cleansed Ergene, those who have said that we have cleansed Ergene, let them clean Ergene, and for two more years they have given the factories the right to desecrate Ergene. Chemical oxygen needs from the pollutant parameters of the facilities should be reduced by 2014, while the time has been postponed until 2016. Before the human health and environmental health effects of the Ergene River are eliminated, our province is left alone with new environmental disasters. The thermal plants, which are among the banned industrial types that will not be included in the Tekirdağ region, unfortunately, are being attempted to open with change of plan by adding energy storage and production fields. So despite judicial decisions, thermal plants are being built at the bottom of our living, settlements, to first-class farmland, regardless of human health, environmental health. Şarköy Kızılcaterzi, Malkara İbrice, Marmara Ereğlisi, and now our citizens in Ergene district are fighting it. Another example of the natural massacre is happening in our town of Saray, in the village of Güngörmez, named after the nearby forest. There are so many trees in the forest that when you look up, you can't see the sky. Now, this forest of ours has to deal with the danger of quartzcyte. Water supply is contaminated in our region, thousands of trees are being cut down. My countrymen, on the one hand, are dealing with these natural massacres, and when their harvests are unable to pay their debts, they have to sell the land of the ancestors, the land of the father's relics, the land of the blood that they have earned with money. From here, I would like to say that the land, if anyone died for it, is a homeland. The word may not mean anything to anyone today, but it means a lot to my city, which is called the Three Kamals Land with Namık Kemal, John Kemal, and the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal. I offer my love and respect to all my countrymen from here, who have turned their faces to the light, as they did to the day they grew up. I celebrate the 92nd year of the salvation of our Tekirdağ. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0015par0093	Thank you, Your Highness. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to go into the system, and I'm going to make a moment's promise to the lawmakers. First word, Mr. Coacher.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0016par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. The most important fact that Turkey is in the world of humanitarian aid is the third after the United States and England, but the first with an illegitimate national product rate. Because of Turkey's significant success in humanitarian aid, I have a debt of gratitude to AFAD, Rediay and TİKA, especially our government. I also want to thank my Gaziantep citizens here who have hosted the highest asylum seekers in Turkey for over three years. In addition, I salute our Gaziantep Governor, Mayor of the Metropolitan, Şahinbey, Şehtkamil, Nizip and Islamic Mayors, and our rooms, stock markets and foundations, with their support.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0017par0102	Thank you, Mr. Coacher. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0018par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, after the December 17th and 25th corruption operations, I had made it clear to you again from these microphones that the PolNet information system had collapsed and people who had entered the borders had been recorded manually, and I had brought this subject to the agenda of the High Assembly with a motion to ask, but I still haven't been able to answer that question. The PolNet system has been processed for approximately 24 hours after its failure, while it is not known who entered or exited Turkey. I bring this to the attention of the High Council, and I think these should be reported immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0019par0108	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Akbulut...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0020par0111	Mr. President, thank you. I too celebrate the 92nd anniversary of our province of Tekirdağ and bless our veterans and martyrs. Tekirdağ has received investments he has not received in the power of the EC PARTY for twelve or thirteen years. Our investments in the land roads alone have exceeded 1 billion, 3.2 billion grants have been earmarked for the cleansing of Ergene. And for that, with the action plan that our government announced in 2011, in order to prevent corrupt industrialization, eight organised industrial zones have been established, and five decontamination facilities are under construction, and hopefully, two years later, we can use it in agriculture, which has been shining water on Ergene.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0021par0115	Thank you, Mr. Akbulut. Dear Little...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0022par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister of Culture and Tourism Haluk Dursunın's personal Facebook account has written a text entitled "Live Information Zero" and does not know how to pronounce tea for women staff working at the Ministry. They don't know the difference between composto and pesto. They love to ring the bell. Our girls are very blank about their knowledge of life. I condemn her to make her definition of life and to see tea brewing or household chores as her greatest virtue, and to do so to promote gender discrimination and gender roles. With officers being investigated for criticizing the government on social media, I'm asking if there's going to be a procedure for the Undersecretary to humiliate women, and I'm wondering?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0023par0121	Thank you, Mr. Little. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0024par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Many mortal traffic accidents, such as the recent massacre, continue to burn our hearts. I've told you many times before from the Turkish Grand National Assembly bench, and I'm afraid you've ignored it. I'd like to say it one more time and remind you. From Ankara, there is a road that shortens access to Isparta, Burdur, Aydın, Denizli, Mugla and Antalya for about 50km. This road leads to the Dinar-Porsuma Crossroad, through the way of Deshovia, which goes on from Emirdağ, Bolvadin, Tea. Traffic is increasing every day on this road. In particular, tourists and freight carriers prefer this road. With traffic density, the risk of accidents is increasing. In 2000 and 2001, no healing efforts have been conducted. I'm telling you, I'm coming on this route by accident. This route must be arranged immediately as a double route. Otherwise, there will be casualties of life and property on this route. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0025par0128	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0026par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, due to its responsibilities in the mining disaster in Ermenek, Minister of Energy and Resources Mr. Taner Yıldız and Minister of Labor and Social Security, Mr. Faruk Çelik, on November 5, 2014, we submit to the public and General Assembly's information that we have put off for the sake of our group, the fact that 16 workers in Ermenek have not been reached yet, that the work in this direction is still under way, and that they expect to reach the relatives of painful families to be reached immediately after the process. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0027par0134	Thank you, Mr. Buldan. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0028par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the Turkish Armed Forces have been framed from the state's most competent mouths. all of these cases have basically collapsed. Therefore, in order to address the victims of innocent people and their families, the Constitutional Court immediately considers these files and demands that the victim be eliminated. The main issue of political power is that we demand that the government use the judiciary as a political stick to create perception, end unjust, unlawful operations against the police, and the government withdraws its hand on the judiciary. A lawsuit against the press is a violation of freedom of the press through the judiciary, for it has reported that there is a thief! In that sense, I urge power to give up this authoritarian structure, this oppressive regime.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0029par0140	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Özdağ...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0030par0143	Dido Sotiriyu is a Greek writer, a man who lived in Aydın, who later died in Athens in 2004, and wrote a book entitled "Say Hi From Me" to Anatolia, a novel. This novel -- there is freedom of opinion in Turkey -- of course it can be published. In 1982, this author and this book were awarded the Turkish-Greek Friendship Prize by the daily Milliyet. Then, this book was distributed as a cultural gift by the former People's Democratic Party (HDP) municipality of Selçuk. Now the Republican People's Party has been transformed into theater by the municipalities of Izmir and is being published and played as a play. You could say, "What's in here?" There are great insults in this book to Ataturk, where Turks are massacrers, even rapists, where 40,000 people have been cut off by bringing 40,000 Rumsa to Manisa, and I suspect that a Republican People's Party municipality has distributed these statements as a cultural gift. At the same time, I also blame Republican People's Party municipalities for the introduction of a book such as this of a writer who insults the War of Salvation, insults Ataturk, insults the effeminates, and portrays Turks as massacrers and rapists.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0029par0144	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0031par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. As an excuse for Kobani, turn the streets to Kobani. The HDP, who ordered the terrorist organization on the streets, looted their businesses on October 6-7, and killed nearly 50 people. For three days, the calls were carried out by these centers. The AKP cannot account for power from those who turn cities into battlefields or instruct them to translate. Due to the approach of the elections, the AKP is not taking action against gangs that have upset public order. In fact, he is involved in this crime by not doing what is necessary against the crimes committed by the NEP, which are trying to establish authority in the region through illegal and brutal methods. The AKP must either act as responsible as the state or get off this nation's back. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0032par0151	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0033par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. The Ministry of Health has been notified with a mobile message that the examination will be postponed on November 9, 2014, for the appointment of prime ministers of education and research hospitals. A message from the University's Remote Education Centre on May 19, stated that the examination was postponed to a later date, with the Ministry of Health's request on October 14th. There is no satisfactory explanation from the Ministry of Health on such an important matter involving thousands of specialists. Why was the exam postponed? Why have young physicians who have been preparing for this examination for months been victimized? Is there a problem with exam safety? Why is the Ministry of Health not being transparent about the matter, making satisfactory statements? When will the exam be taken? Is there going to be a new application? Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0034par0157	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0035par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP government, which boasts in two ways in Turkey, has not finished the roads in the province of Çanakkale in 12 years, and has not yet begun in some places. Some of the two roads between Ezine-Ayvacuk a year ago were stripped of asphalt, and now, suddenly, the existing asphalt began to fall back into place. Why is that? Was it a year of asphalt that fell out about a year ago, and now it's been ripped out? How much does this asphalt cost the state? Now, is that asphalt going to be removed in a year? How long will this asphalt cost? The road to Çanakkale, which connects Ayvacık to İzmir, is still unfinished. When do you think you'll be finished? When are people going to get out of this misery?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0034par0162	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0036par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. On 26 July 2013, Kastamonu Airport began its official flights. On October 6, 2013, during his visit to Kastamonu Airport, Turkish Airlines Director General Kotil Kastamonou expressed satisfaction with the hail rates of flights at Kastamonou Airport, announcing that flights in Kastamonou would be launched on two flights a day, but despite these statements a month ago, flights in Kastamonu were unfortunately reduced to four days a week. I wish that Mr. General Manager would stand by this good news he gave Kastamon, and that the authorities would follow it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0037par0168	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0038par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, a press release was read in front of the Ministry of Finance by the TÜRK BURO-SEN union on the use of public employees' service services. Following the reading of this statement, seven symbolically wanted to submit a petition to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on a bicycle, but the police, ordered by the AKP government, have blocked this democratic, civil and peaceful action by responding violently. The AKP government does not speak for those who support ISIS, the separatist organization, the people who build public order in the name of the PKK, the autonomy makers. Our motto is first our country. The Turkish government, KAMU-SEN and TÜRK BURO-SEN have been slaughtered as lions. He will surely be questioned about it.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0037par0173	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0039par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. According to a recent media report, the National Ministry of Education has filed a statement to the state-run education directors, demanding that they donate money to schools, families, children at school -- to the Humanitarian Aid Foundation. As your government, you must answer these claims. In this way, I strongly advise you to give up your habit of collecting money, where it comes from, where it's going to go. You've done similar things before, and Turkey has had the opportunity to meet certain events, thanks to you. If that's not the case, I'd like the Ministry of National Education to explain it immediately.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0037par0178	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Karakelle...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0040par0181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to thank Mr. Muharrem Ilk for first expressing Erzincan's problems. So I made a promise just to correct some of your explanations. Our Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs has made the necessary statements regarding the hospital's additional buildings. You know, we're two-and-a-half years behind in building the additional building because of publicisation there, but right now, in both our Minister of Health and Development's programs, we're going to build our 200-bed research hospital in our Erzincan Medical faculty, and let me just say that in our medical faculty, we're currently doing a minimum of two heart surgeries, 10 angiomas. In Eastern Anatolia, we have such a growing university hospital. Those who don't vote are not given jobs. It's a statement in the form of our congressman. A thousand people who were taken to work for the benefit of the community were taken by choice. We're supposed to be...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0041par0186	Thank you, Mr. Karakelle. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0042par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. People from six neighborhoods were taking advantage of the Sympathetic Clinic, now converted into a mental health centre in Istanbul. The defunct polyclinic, public institutions and organizations have contributed to the aid of citizens, including the X-ray machine, biochemistry lab, and the colored doppler. The closure of the polycline, which serves between 400 and 500 people a day in 11 majors and opening up a mental health centre instead, have caused the locals to have a justified reaction. What's the reason this place is closed down? In the course of the decision, has the opinion been taken from the district chiefs and associations, and the victim's sacrifice been considered? In particular, it is considered to be recycled, considering the reaction of the region's people? In addition, there is a study by the Ministry of Dental Medicine. This study must be carried out by an opinion from the Union of Turkish Dentist Doctors. Our colleagues are very anxious about this, and I'd like to announce again to Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0043par0192	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Eryılmaz...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0044par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. As a result of the wrong foreign policy followed by the government, unfortunately, we have become a hostile country with all our neighbors, and as a result, we see that all of our customs to the Middle East in particular have been closed for about three and a half years. There are serious economic difficulties in the region due to the closing of customs doors. The narcissist, one of the major sources of income in the Mediterranean Region, and at the moment, the narcissist manufacturer is facing a major crisis. Like a citrus in a tree. When will the government take care of our people in the region and provide solutions to their problems, says the government. Our local people are really curious about this. There's been a serious blood loss. We think this needs to be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0045par0199	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0046par0202	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is November 13th, the 92nd anniversary of Tekirdağ's deliverance from the Greek occupation. In 1357, after the Greek invasion of Tekirdağ (Tekirdağ) who joined Turkish territory in the Ottoman Empire, the anniversary of the resuscitation on 13 November 92, I bid that all Tekirdağ people, whose commitments we are proud of, be blessed, too. I hope he doesn't have to go through that again.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0045par0204	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0047par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Selçuk Özdağ has condemned the situation by saying that some Republican People's Party municipalities in İzmir have distributed Dido Sotiriyu's book As a cultural gift from me, and that some municipalities have played it as a theatrical work, and that the Greeks have been massacred. Depends on where it's coming from. I'm afraid I haven't been able to read this book, and that's a flaw for me. However, I have been informed by a few of my fellow lawmakers who read the book that instead of insulting Ataturk (Ataturk) there is a Turkish-Rum brotherhood and an encouraging essay to live together. I advise Selçuk Özdağ to read the book again. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0048par0210	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0049par0211	Mr. President, one moment, please...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0048par0212	Please, take your word for it. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0050par0215	Thank you, Mr. President. Despite arrangements that have been brought from time to time to improve the situation of those who work in our country's underground mining enterprises, unfortunately, it has been seen once again with the latest examples of suffering that have been unresolved. In particular, the government has been obliged to make certain arrangements in order to meet the growing financial burdens of private and public-owned subterranean mining businesses, following the latest bag of laws made of 6552. I'd like to invite the government on an urgent mission, and thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0048par0217	Thank you, Mr. Light. We're going on the agenda. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, between 1999 and 2000, the number of small animals was over 50 million in wrong animal policies, economic crises, the extreme height of animalization inputs, the inability to evaluate their products, and the decline of pedestrians and mera fields, the decline in our existence of sheep due to terrorist migrations. In addition, today, our small animal presence has had a huge decline, and statistics show that our sheep population is around 20 million today, due to the government's import regime, the difficulties and bankruptcy, the manufacturer's cooling off from animalism and turning to other areas. Merinos of our country's own race, the Romanov race, which is being imported today, lacks nothing from the sheep, and its pros are even greater. In merinos, twinry is a genetic trait, and it's very high. In fact, triplets and quadruplets are even higher than Romanov sheep. It is also known that the young of the merinos are larger and fleshier than the Romanovian, and that a 15- to 20 - day - old merino chick can reach up to 20 kilograms [20 kg]. However, by your ministry, the merinos sheep race has been abandoned to its fate, at the risk of being in an almost extinct position. In particular, TIGEM can't meet the demands of merinos, which reach our side during the summer. While sheep farming can be done in all parts of our country, geography, especially in the Middle and East and Southeast Anatolian regions, is more suitable for this upbringing. Therefore, the important part of sheep's existence is located in these areas. With its meat, milk, and its skill, it provides a significant benefit to the economy of the region. In order to encourage the breeding of the merinos race sheep in our country, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened, based on the basis of the 104th and 105th Articles of the Interior Charter, in order to determine and support the problems and solutions of the state regarding this resource, in order to make administrative and institutional legal arrangements. 1) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Sinop]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Niğde]] [[Scholarship]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] 16) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] 21) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 23) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] 25) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[Mersin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the problems of the irrigation troops in Turkey and their solutions, we submit the need for the establishment of the Parliament's research commission, according to Articles 104, 105, of our Constitution's 98th and Parliamentary Institution. [[Lug]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Mersin]] [[Erzurum]] [[Elizipt]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Slap]] [[Sakarya]] [[Manisa]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Samsun]] [[Kayseri]] [[Yozgat]] [[Mughle]] [[Eskişehir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 20) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] 21) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] The irrigation units in our country offer an important position for farming in Turkey, where there is not a small proportion of the population that deals with agriculture. More than 380 irrigation units in Turkey suffer from financial problems, and over 4,500 of our citizens working in irrigation units are victims of both their rights and their wages. For that year, the personnel costs of a watering unit are not exceeded by 30 per cent of the amount of budget revenues, which are valid at the beginning of each calendar year, according to Article 213 of the Law on Watering Units No. 6172, which has been announced by the provisions of Article 298 of the Tax Act on 213 and multiplied by the number of revaluements. It is known that if needed, it can be increased by 40 per cent with the minister's approval at the request of the Union. On the other hand, for example, in the Green Irrigation Association, there are many staffed workers and there are problems as a result of the new state of the law. In the Green Watering Company, 60 per cent of the budget is earmarked for personnel costs. If staff costs are regulated in accordance with the law, either the layoff of personnel or the transfer of personnel to other institutions will be on the agenda. If the staff is laid off, compensation must be paid, but since the institution is in poor condition, this does not appear to be an option. These and similar situations, not only in Iğdır, but in our country, are the common problem of many irrigation units. The increasingly dysfunctional problems and functions of the irrigation troops are also putting our farmers in a difficult position in reducing agriculture, which is one of the major sources of income in our country. In a commission in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the budgets of the irrigation unit will be sufficient for them and the study of the autonomy rights of the watering union workers will be an application that will prevent agriculture from becoming bad across the country. Research by the commission to find solutions will contribute to the recovery of the irrigation troops. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to address problems related to the negative effects of the Syrian crisis on Turkey's economy and to determine the solutions, we propose and propose the opening of the Parliament's investigation under Article 98, Article 104 and 105 of the Interior Charter. 1) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] 5) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Samsun]] [[Adana]] [[Erzurum]] [[Kayseri]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Inconceived]] [[Kütahya]] [[Lug]] 15) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kastamon]] [[Mersin]] Like all countries in the region, the crisis in Syria has affected Turkey in political, security, diplomatic and economic areas. The most important thing is that the trade volume between the two countries decreases day after day, and that the cities exporting heavily to Syria are badly affected. Turkey is one of Syria's most important trade partners. Between 2000 and 2010, imports and exports have increased. Exports to Syria between 2000 and 2010 were $1.1 billion, while exports to the same country in the first six months of 2012 declined by 68.5 per cent to $363m. In the first eight months of 2012, the total exports of 10 cities, bordering Syria or located in this region, were reduced to $260.4 million at 92.1 million, showing a 64.6 per cent decline compared to the same period last year. After the crisis in Syria, trade volume has been reduced in our provinces of Gaziantep, Hatay, Şanlıurfa and Osmaniye. Without this setback, Şanlıurfa received 27.7 per cent, Gaziantep 21.7 per cent, Osmaniye 15.9 per cent and Hatay received 15.1 per cent. The crisis in Syria affects exports in these cities, as well as employment, which leads to stability in our cities. Between 2000-2010, Turkey-Suriye relations, which have seen rapid developments in trade, tourism, real estate sectors, have declined due to today's crisis in Syria, particularly near the Syrian border, Hatay, Gaziantep, Şanlıurfa, Osmaniye, Kilis, the economies of cities have been affected negatively. These effects will affect the provinces, which are primarily closely associated with Syria, and then the entire economy of Turkey. In addition, the investments of our investors and businessmen who have invested in Syria have been hampered, even destroyed in this country. The developments in Syria are not limited to economic worsening, but also to negative effects in the tourism sector. The number of day-to-day trips to Hatay, Mardin and Gaziantep is expected to be seriously reduced after what happened in Syria and the border crossing has been closed. However, restaurants, hotels, and retailers are beginning to be affected. In our provinces, hotel owners have made various investments to address the pleasures of Middle Eastern tourists, and they have taken out loans to finance these investments, but after closing the border crossing, the number of tourists in the city has declined, and business owners are finding it difficult to pay off these loans they receive. These negative developments on the Syrian border of our country have affected the locals as economically as it is spiritual. For these reasons, it is of great importance to address the economic problems that our investors in our borders with Syria will face in the days and days ahead. In order to create measures, solution proposals and necessary policies, I propose that the Constitution's 98th and Turkish National Assembly of Turkey's Interior Charter shall be launched under Articles 104 and 105, under the terms of Articles 104 and 105, and the reasons for the economic and social problems of our people, industrial and businessmen who have also invested in Syria. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion that the two motions for the gene question have been withdrawn, and I'm going to read them: 13.11.2014 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Mr. Taner Yıldız and Minister of Energy and Natural Resources and Minister of Labour and Social Security Mr. Faruk Çelik (11/38) and the main number-one generator motions (11/39) read in the 12th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 11/11/2014. For your information. It has been presented to your knowledge. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Antalya MP Gökçen Özdoğan Enç has been nominated for one member of the Justice and Development Party Group, which is empty in the Constitutional Commission. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will continue our talks with Kars MP Yunus Kılıç and Amassian MP Avni Erdemir and 79 MPs who were ranked in the 3rd ranking position of President of the Health Institutes of Turkey; and with the establishment of the President of the Health Institutes of Turkey; and with the amendments to Decisions in Laws and Health, Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Report. The commission and the government are in place. According to the 91st Article of the Civil Charter, the 12th Union of 11/11/2014 of the draft law was completed and remained in the vote for the transfer of its articles. I will now submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 27th article. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Hülya Güven will speak on the first chapter. Here you go, Mr. Trust.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0051par0429	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have made a pledge on behalf of the group about the first chapter of the Dair Law Bill, to make changes in the Constitutional Amendment to the establishment of Turkish Health Institutes (TUSEB) in 615 rows, and I salute the grand delegation. Congressmans, with this bill, it's as if our current universities, existing institutions, TÜBITAK has done nothing and are not capable of making the goals planned for TUSEB. So up until now, we need enough support for our universities and more and more problems to solve, but there's a huge health ministry-related company. It's made to look like a solution to this company. In fact, it's very clear that they're trying to transform health into a structure that will completely privatise health. This bill gives many rights to the company; abroad, companies are given the authority to start companies and to become partners. Isn't that the commercialization of health and going into privatisation? It also shows that all health workers will be subcontracted because they are released for all kinds of service with the 17th article. That, of course, includes health workers. Again, the arrangement of the bill shows that discrimination among physicians has deepened. Some physicians will be able to conduct their mandatory services in TUSEB, even though our children have received a scholarship, as Mr. Horseman said. So our children will be given scholarships first, then their mandatory services will be provided at TUSEB. Some of our physicians will be obliged to six years of mandatory service, while some physicians will be able to do it in TUSEB, Istanbul, or in major cities, where there are companies. They will be subject to anesthesiology and children's specialists working in intensive care with Article 21 or other related expertise, if they have worked in intensive care for any place for five years, if they have worked in public for three years. How is it possible for a physician who has graduated as a practitioner or who has a major in a field to receive a degree without the mandatory service, while working in a public intensive care unit for three years, as stated in the article? It's probably a couple of doctors who pulled it off. When the 21st article is run, intensive care services in many private and public hospitals will be inevitable. So, lawmakers, have we looked at the mandatory service? Have we studied the time and suffering of physicians who are subject to this ministry? Two years as a practitioner, two years as an expert, and even a man as a soldier, another two years as a side branch expert -- in some cases mandatory service can go up to five years -- and if it's called four or six years of expertise, a physician who graduates at the age of 23 will be able to put his life in order only when he is 40. However, if you have studied your expertise abroad, there is no mandatory service for you, and there is no going east. Now that the scholarship kids are protected, who's the mandatory service? What was the purpose of the obligatory ministry? It was to make sure that physicians could go to the remotest corners of the East, but with the laws that have been passed, not everyone is allowed to serve equally forcefully, opening up ways of becoming professors, professors, professors, at the speed of lightning. Now, under these circumstances, the government cannot find a physician. We see that all these phrases are just a cover-up. Actually, it's the government that created the absence. The subject of mandatory service is a subject that must be fully reviewed; equality must be achieved, perhaps shortened, or even completely eliminated. It should be encouraging, not punishing. Congressmans, I'd like to read a section of the AKP government's grounds for lifting the current mandatory service in 2003. The motive begins as follows: A commitment has been given to physicians who are responsible for protecting health, treating diseases, and living a better quality of life, and who, despite the risk of any illness, are not in any other profession at all. But by cancelling in 2005, physicians are subject to a mandatory service that lasts at least six years. Congressmans, this obligation exists for some, but not for others. It's never equal. The TUSEB is a university that violates equality and rights with its faculty, its institute, and its research units. While we still can't prevent infant deaths, infant mothers, births, disabled babies, inadequate ambulance services, infectious children's diseases -- like measles and polio -- work killings, women's murders, while we have citizens in Istanbul who can't afford their medicine, medical supplies. Mr. Secretary said we have no problem accessing medical technology. But today the disabled can't access their medical supplies. Kids have to wait two years for a cross-eyed surgery. Will TUSEB be the answer? Where will the citizens get the money to pay TUSEB for treatment? The goal of health tourism is aligned. Today, citizens of Greece are being treated cheaper than our citizens. Besides, if you have debt, you have to pay three times as much. WHO will TUSEB serve? Just strangers? There's talk of a vaccine-producing target. Refik Saydam, who founded Turkey's first Minister of Health and Refik Sayfzissiha Institute, found the vaccine for typhus a hundred years ago, allowing it to be used in World War I, the Germans used it for their troops. Among the many vaccines produced after that, the last dry flower vaccine was produced at this institute in 1965. Instead of developing this institute, you closed it. Why? Because the Ministry of Health is starting a company. In 2006, the world giants -- one of them is Pasteur -- came to Turkey, where the vaccine was to be produced. It's 2014, we're still thinking about how to make vaccines, how to make them, and we're starting colleges. In fact, TUSEB is the organisation of its operation, the process of diverting the healthcare system, privatisation and commercialisation of health. Therefore, he asks the high council to give up this bill, and I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0052par0446	Thank you, Mr. Trust. In the name of the National Movement Party Group, Samsun MP Jamalettin Lightning. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0053par0450	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I present to you the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the first chapter of Bill 615, which we are discussing. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, before I talk about this, I'd like to share a few things with you: First, I don't know if I should call it a repeat business accident in Turkey or a business murder, but I don't think it's possible to call it a business accident anymore. Regarding these accidents, I want to express my condolences to two of our citizens, who died in Ermenek, and to their relatives, and to our nation. And I wish our workers, who have been underground for 15 days, would be reached at once. May God help them all. Don't think that what I'm about to say on this matter is politically speaking as an object of abuse. I'm really asking you to do this. I think every member of the board is as upset about this as I am. But now, I think it's time for the results to be taken as well. And since it's members of power that will provide that, until that happens, as our opposition MP, I'd like to say that we have nothing to do but express ourselves here. Also, as another matter, I would like to ask you to understand Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, of the adjectives such as the chief minister, the president of Turkey, as well as the content of my talk on the reality of Turkey. Precious lawmakers are interfering with the financial and administrative structure of the foundation universities, and the Ministry of National Education is also making changes in the Agency's Law. Such a task has not been attributed to the Ministry of Health, nor to the Constitution, nor to the Ministry of Health. This kind of work will remove the Ministry from its constitutional mandate, but will also cause the Ministry to be dysfunctional. He'll be facing a situation where he doesn't do his job. Precious lawmakers, the state, the Ministry of Health, as stated in the Law on the Agency and its Missions, have defined the Ministry of Health as a means of protecting the health and health of the community in order to ensure that everyone lives in full physical, spiritual, and social conditions, and to implement, or implement, all kinds of measures, to establish, and to establish, and to set up the necessary organization. Scientific studies in our country will provide a more economical, more efficient study in terms of human resources and research costs, regardless of the field. In Turkey, the address is TUBITAK. We believe that using infrastructure and human resources of TÜBITAK will be able to do more efficient and results. IN THIS regard, TUBITAK can be strengthened by supporting what is needed. In addition, the government can most effectively use money and manpower by cooperating with institutions established at universities under the roof of TBITAK. The Ministry of Health should perform a more planned and controlling function. The Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology is causing waste and chaos by shifting to non-employees of the Health Ministry, while there are universities that have the savings of science, Industry and Technology, TÜBITAK and information. As we have just stated, the Ministry of Health's basic duty is to protect the health of our people and to ensure that patients are treated in the circumstances necessary. The Ministry of Health uses all kinds of information and technology produced while doing this constitutional mission, but with this bill, the Ministry of Health is also burdened with a responsibility that will put the Ministry on the ground, which has no obligation to produce this information and technology. The Ministry of Health can perform this task using the information and technology produced by TUBITAK and other scientific institutions in areas it needs. In this sense, Turkey's Institute for Health Services Quality and Accreditation is not suitable because the Ministry of Health, in its own institutions and institutions, is, in this sense, computing deaf people. How the Ministry of Health oversees its own institutions and institutions is known to individuals who have worked at this institution today, more or less. For these reasons, the establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's health institutes in the first part of the bill is not necessary, nor is it necessary. Mr. Secretary, this is similar to the fact that from time to time, they're more likely to apply to you as well. You know, there's a job application, and someone comes up to you, and they say, "I'll do whatever I can." That's what you're most difficult to do -- that's the kind of application that happens to us from time to time. That's what I do. The Ministry of Health also wants to be transformed into a form, which is a very wrong matter. For him, the Ministry of Health has a responsibility to maintain public health and treat it when necessary. In addition to that, I think it can be done by taking advantage of and supporting scientific research from the necessary institutions in Turkey -- the address of this is TBITAK, as I've already expressed -- by taking advantage of TBITAK and supporting it further. On this occasion, I salute you all again.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0054par0462	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Bingöl MP İdris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0055par0466	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on behalf of the first chapter of the First Section of the Legislative Code on the establishment of the chair of the Turkish Institute for Health Education, 615 rows, and on the amendments to certain Laws and Laws. I salute you all. Before I start speaking, I'd like to make a specific point. On top of this whole bill, we had a very heated conversation during the absence of live broadcasts, and we called both the Ministry of Health and the EC PARTY group from here. We are now dealing with a situation where these calls are partially considered. In particular, we consider it a positive assessment of the 34th and 47th amendment from this draft text. So, the withdrawal of regulations on the establishment of a unique health sciences university in the world, and again, in the Ministry of National Education, in particular, many suspects, many doubts, have been withdrawn from us. We say that we take them in a positive way. In fact, in general, we would like to say that the Assembly could work more efficiently if the EC PARTI Group or the government could work more efficiently, leaving aside an attitude from each proposal, from the front, because it came from the opposition, to be open to suggestions from the opposition, to be open to opposition while making law. Of course, by withdrawing these arrangements that we have stated, you have not brought forward a bill that we have already entered into. This is where we want to make the warning. In health, we have stated that there have been serious health problems, that in fact, the entire Health Transformation Project will be discussed by all political parties, and that, according to him, this Assembly should work overtime, and we are expressing the same thing today. Because even the materials that are in effect -- even the arrangements for the establishment of the institution of the Turkish health institutes -- bring to mind the arrangements for the establishment of the health institute, which seem to not solve many problems within themselves, which seem to be doing something palliative, but under which there are very different searches. We are not satisfied, we are not satisfied as the Democratic Party of Peoples, when we read about the purpose, scope, task and authority of the establishment of this TUSEB. I'd like to rephrase the fact that a health ministry institution that we're talking about as the head of the Health Minister's Governing Body is far away from the understanding of staffing, supplying certain environments, and solving some of the general issues of health. In particular, we would like to express our criticism here today that some companies can be established within this TUSEB, that these companies can be exempted from certain taxes, that there will be some very serious flexibilitys about their audits. In fact, we wish that the entire bill of this bag had been withdrawn, that it had all been negotiated with political parties in some way, and that through a joint text, it would have been brought before the General Assembly through a joint bill. Because we especially think that some of the reasons mentioned within this bill are very important. In particular, the issue of fighting cancer is one of the most urgent issues in our country in which there is a sufficient fight against cancer. I've also expressed that in a country where about 140,000 new patients are recorded each year, where nearly 150,000 cancer patients are lost, of course, there needs to be effective policies in fighting cancer, fighting cancer, but again -- I've expressed that day -- we're now dealing with some very serious problems for cancer patients from their very serious problems with supplying drugs to specialist oncologists, specialist hematologists. So if we're going to talk about a bill that's based on the fight against cancer, we're going to have to deal with all of these problems, and I want to say that we can't have an institutionalization on the study of pure technology or innovation, and we can't have a struggle with cancer patients' problems or cancer. Of course, in general, you've made more health-related arrangements because there are applications that create capitals, create private sectors, and, as I say, there are some companies within TESSEB, the creation of some of these companies, the provision of certain conveniences, tax exemptions, the authority of the Ministry of Health in tenders, up to $1 million euros, so these are not regulations that are free from the concern of creating the area of private capital that we're talking about. Look, we've always expressed the applications you've made from this bench, but with a few data, I want to stress from here how much you care about the relationship between this private sector and health policy. In October 2013, you brought a Council of Ministers decision, which was approved by the Council of Ministers, from 90 per cent to 200 per cent of the difference costs for private hospitals, so let me make it more clear that you signed a number of regulations that would benefit private health organizations from their pockets to 6 billion euros to that day, while you also took out a 6 billion euros from a citizen's pocket, and then undersigned a number of regulations that would benefit these private hospitals. So we're considering the arrangements you've brought here. We are still critical, critical of these practices, which are not only concerned about that institutional autonomy, but also call for intervention in this economic and social area that I'm talking about, which includes some unfair advantages, and we think they should be withdrawn. Now that we've established such a compromise today, since we've established today that it's possible to back down from some wrongs, I think it's very important that you withdraw this entire bill and put it all on the initiative to negotiate with the political parties. Again, there were some issues in Article 47 concerning some of the upgrades in the Ministry of National Education. It's also important that you filmed it, but in the bag you brought in earlier, you know, you've usually attached the appointment of these executives at the Ministry of National Education to the governors, and you've practically pave the way for political staffing there. If you've seen a mistake from here, let's put the wrongs in practical practice back on the table. So we're saying that whoever deserves it, we're going to organize all of these areas with criteria that don't specify some political markers, indicators. I salute the General Assembly with such feelings and thoughts. Again, I'd like to say that we've also had the position of the Health Minister and the AK PARTY group today, at least to return from part of the wrong. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0056par0480	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. On behalf of Kayseri MP Ismail Tamer.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0057par0482	We got it.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0056par0483	You got it. Mr. Turkkan? I don't think so. Then I'll move on to the QA. And this part's been 15 minutes, so I'm gonna put half of it into questions. Here you go, Mr. Light. No sign of Mr. Light. Then, Mr. Tanal, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0058par0489	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, of course I'm glad you're here. All the filthy sewer waters of Adıyaman province are being poured out into the Ataturk Dam, in a raw state, without being purified. Ataturk Dam is also being watered. In this case, both the creatures found in water at the Ataturk Dam are dying, and by water, the citizens are infected with infectious diseases, and that poses a threat to the health of the people in the environment as well. I always said that as soon as I became a congressman. I'm running out of legislature process, and so far, this problem is still going on. When are you going to settle this problem? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0059par0492	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0060par0493	First of all, Adıyaman had no drinking water. We specifically brought the Jesus lines, the warehouses, the main distribution lines, the drinking water, but as far as I know, there's a study on the wastewater treatment plant. I'll follow that, too, Mr. Tanal. Indeed, it is imperative that the wastewater advanced biodegradation plant be built immediately. I will personally follow this as the honorary citizen of Adıyaman. Well, that's actually the job of the City and County Bank, but if necessary, we'll be able to step in because of the Ataturk Dam. I'll follow you personally. Thank you for your concern.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0059par0495	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You must have another question. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0061par0498	Minister, another question is, I'm from Şanlıurfa. Şanlıurfa is five miles from the dam in Hilvan district of Şanlıurfa Province. Our Hilvan County has no drinking water. So, as a result, it's the 21st century, and we're saying we've come this far, right, but Hilvan County is a victim of this clean water. When will this drinking water be done? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0059par0500	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0062par0502	Thank you, Mr. President. While we've seen you here, Minister, we've asked you a question before, but it's said that there is a serious problem with the decontamination of the Marmara Sea; it's said that biodegradation is due to 25 percent; that some 120 species of fish have landed to 4/5, and that fish are heavily loaded with mercury, heavy metals. Here, in view of the Marmara Sea, one of the most important areas in the world is the Sea of Marmara, a region where hot water mixes with cold water. Do you have a serious working time ahead of you to rehabilitate such an important area? I want to know exactly when this biodegradation can be passed. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0063par0505	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0064par0507	Mr. Secretary, of course, since we've actually seen you, we're usually asking questions about your area, so don't mind. Now, in Turkey, of course, water costs... water is a right to live. Water can't be commercialized. Because of this reason, the cost of water is very high because of a human right to live, because of the cost of water paid by our citizens within the city limits. Do you have any work or work on how these water prices should be drawn to a number that a citizen can pay, or do you intend to do such a study, not in terms of commercialization, but in terms of human rights?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0063par0509	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0065par0511	Mr. President, especially Hilvan County... of course, you know about Şanlıurfa, first of all, there was no water in Şanlıurfa, there was no water at the center of Şanlıurfa. We, from the Ataturk Dam, with a very excellent dehydration plant to Şanliurfa... will even last until the first level of 2020. Now, right now, we've done the second level dehydration plant, and we've solved the water of the center at the root. There's water in some counties, but it's not enough, maybe soon, maybe in three or five years, water shortages. In this regard, we've taken all the districts of Şanlıurfa, including Hilvan, certainly projects are being done, their water problem will be solved at the root. However, Mr. Tanal, you know there was a shortage of water in every city in Turkey; before 1994, in Istanbul, in İzmir, in Karsίta, in Edirne. We have made a major plan, especially since 2003. In fact, in 2007, you know, Law 1053 was completely changed, it had 100,000 criteria. Law number 1053: you know the law on providing water to cities such as İzmir, Ankara, Istanbul, which is larger than 100,000. Here, water has been delivered to cities with more than 100,000 populations in the past by the DSI, while we have now lifted the 100,000 criteria. So, when this law changed in 2007, we prepared an action plan, a water-supply action plan that would satisfy the needs of our 81 cities 30, 40 years later, and that worked well. For example, despite the drought this year -- you know, you live in Istanbul -- there's never been a water problem in any of our cities. Hopefully, in Hilvan, and not only Hilvan, but there are some boroughs there, such as Siverek and so on, we'll solve them. On the other hand, there is no commercialization of water. Look, we're not taking money from the water right now. However, of course, in major cities -- such as ISİ in Istanbul -- there are sewage management in other cities. These are particularly in charge of the water schedules by the council's decision. Because the CSI and other water sewage administrations are the general assembly of the city municipal council, their schedules are being prepared by them, and according to the law, they are in charge. But I do know that while these tariffs are being prepared... the rates are much lower when we look at other countries, and I want to stress that in terms of water and waste water. It is possible to compare it with Germany, England. I mean, these administrations aren't for profit, they're just taking the cost. So there are expenses such as bringing water, purifying, promotion, collecting energy and wastewaters, so water sewer management only provides water to houses at a level that only pays operating costs. In fact, when I was the head of the BSI, we were putting the price on families who used less than 7-10-15 cubic metres of water per month so that poor families wouldn't suffer. So this is being taken into consideration by the water sewer management. There's no such thing as commercialization of water, water is everyone's right. So a government giving a citizen healthy and adequate water is the most important right any citizen can expect from the state. As for Kadir Bey, Now, Mr. Kadir, when I was President of the Environmental Engineering Department of Environmental Technology, we did the measurement for the first time in the 1990s in Halic, the Sea of Marmara. For the first time, there are two layers of current, you know, both in Çanakkale, and in the Bosphorus of Istanbul. Its measurements, even the height of these layers, the currents... as you know, they go from the lower layer of Marvara to the Black Sea, and the upper layer is from the Black Sea to the Marmara. So I'd like to sum up in a nutshell before 1994... because the most polluting is the Istanbul and the Danube River. So in Istanbul, only 5 per cent of the wastewaters before 1994 were collected and refined, but when we solved the water issue at its root in 1995-96, we declared 97, especially Halic, 98, the year of the clean Marmara, and we completed all the wastewater treatment facilities. Look, it's just the wastewater treatment facilities we built when I was head of the BSI: they had a new door, but they didn't have connections. We've completed all the collectors connected to the new door, and we're removing the Yenikapi from it, and we're giving it to the bottom current to the Black Sea. Also, in Baltalimanman... the great collector, starting from Kemerburgaz, then enters the tunnel to save the Halic. There are huge tunnels up to the Axlimanian, so it's big enough to run a truck through it, and we collect it in the Baltaliman, purify it, and we give it to the bottom current. Other than that, Kadiköy, Littlesu, Küçükçekmece, all of these have been purified in our time, but our Metropolitan Municipality, İSİ, then set up an advanced wastewater decontamination plant in Ataköy to collect all the wastewater from that area. So, as far as I know, about 97 percent of the wastewater gathered in Istanbul is being refined.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0066par0515	Biological decontamination?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0065par0516	The essentials are biological, some even wastewater biological.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0066par0517	No, as in gray water?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0065par0518	Wait a minute. Excuse me. Look, I'm an expert on this. We've decided that if it's going to be in the basin, let's say it's going to be given to Riva Creek, the Pashaköy Purification Facility is an advanced biodegradation facility, even further, but if some of it is to be put into the sea, if there's no substream, then this is a biodegradation facility, and that's even further. But if it's going downstream, in that case, the substream... you know, 100 meters below the Black Sea is a dead sea. So, after the pre-decontamination, we're giving it to them -- the salt holder, etcetera, etcetera. Therefore, this does not cause any pollution in any way. The real pollution comes from the Danube. Therefore, my request, especially from you, was that such a commission had been set up in time to prevent contamination of the Danube River, in the Black Sea, and we need to follow it. If we control that contamination... but there have been wastewater treatment facilities in Istanbul, all the waste treatment facilities in Kopeeli have been built, and the surrounding cities are doing a lot of it. We've just heard from our esteemed CHP deputy, who's gone -- we're doing a great work on Ergene River. Look, I promised I'd bring you his books. In fact, in my previous speech, you requested wastewater treatment facilities and water liquidation books, and I'm going to bring them to all my deputies, and I'm going to bring them to Ergene. In fact, we're using the world's most advanced technology, the technology that we're finding right now. It's the first time we've applied biological nitrogen and phosphorus-free technology, the technology of the last 20 years, and I'm proud to say that. In that sense, mercury and other concentrations in the Marmara rivers have been greatly reduced, but in this regard, if you'd like, I can give you more detailed parameters -- we've been measuring them for 30 years. I thank you, all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0067par0523	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0068par0524	Mr. President, there's a deadline. I have one more question.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0067par0525	Mr. Reminder, here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0068par0526	Minister, you know one of the world's most important migration routes is the northern forests of Istanbul. These northern forests have a very serious number of trees cut down by airports and highways. And there's talk of hundreds, 98 ponds being dried up, filled up in a week. I saw someone, my own witness. Some trees are no longer cut down in haste, they cover up the trees in a flash. I'm asking if it won't do much harm to Istanbul's thirst in the coming period, if it won't block the migration routes. And the fact that the olive trees have been removed in Manisa, may be illegal by some of your ministers, would you consider suing that Kolin Construction as the Ministry? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0069par0529	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0070par0531	I just want to make this very clear. The third airport and especially the third bridge roads -- we've put in protocol -- will plant at least five saplings for every tree that's been cut down. I'd like to emphasize that in a nutshell. The second thing is... you mentioned some ponds and ponds there in particular. But, of course, none of these ponds are ponds, completely -- from time to time I was looking through the air -- it's like craters in the moon. Because, in time, long before us, in order to extract coals, we're going to extract low-sized coals, and unfortunately, there's a whole lot of holes in those areas. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0071par0536	Yeah, two minutes...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0070par0537	These are ponds, not artificial ponds, but completely pits. These are supposed to be filled, or there's Lake Terakos as a wet area. Other than that, there's no wetlands outside the Alibey Dam, and I'd like to stress that in particular.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0072par0538	It is also said that salt water has entered the Lake Tervos very seriously.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0070par0539	No, the water level is higher than the sea. So, from Terakos, physically, it's an infiltration of low jeans from high jeans. Nothing.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0073par0540	When are we going to fish and swim in Gediz? You said we were going fishing at the end of 2012, at the end of 2012.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0070par0541	If you'll excuse me, sir, I think...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0074par0542	Yes, please respond in a minute.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0073par0543	But let me ask the question first, let it be heard.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0074par0544	I've given you one more minute, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0075par0545	Sir, you've already asked me, so I'll answer you right away. Look, we're the ones who...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0076par0547	As of the end of 2012...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0075par0548	Excuse me. We specifically divided the municipalities there. Have the municipalities done their part? They didn't. But we, the erosion control... we've reformed the whole stream, we've even protected the areas there, almost all of the streams have been reformed. In fact, right now...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0076par0550	You're not answering my question again. You said it yourself...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0077par0551	Please, let's not talk mutually, Mr. Kören. Please...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0075par0552	But there's a remarkable improvement in quality.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0076par0553	At the end of 2012, you said we would fish and swim. Shall we go swimming together, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0075par0554	Let's go fishing together, go fishing together.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit01spe0078par0555	Thank you, sir. Talks on chapter one are complete. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0078par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 14th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 615 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now, after I've processed the clauses and the motions on that clause, I'm going to submit them to your separate votes. There are three motions on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 and the amendments to the provisions of some Law and Law Act 1. We propose and propose that the "responsibility of our country's need for advanced technology and innovation" be removed from the draft text. Seyfettin Yilmaz Celal Adan Ali Öz Lütfü Türkkan S. Nevzat Don't Be Afraid, D. Ali Torlak Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 1st Amendment to the Constitution of the State of Turkey's Health Institutes and to the Constitution of Turkey's Constitution. We propose "to increase Turkey's competitiveness and make it permanent, to meet the need for advanced technology and innovation of our country, and to replace it with the declaration of "for health care." Lightshooter Free Special Nurettin Demir Süleyman Çelebi Kadir Gökmen Öğülya Trust Fatma Nur Serter MahmutTanal Hasan Ören To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 1 of the 615 law bill, which is in effect, be removed from the draft text of the first amendment. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Kemal Aktaş Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tünzel Altan Tan Does the commission agree with my latest motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0079par0031	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0078par0032	Mr. Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP, please come in.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0080par0034	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we try to present our problems with this health issue as soon as we can. For the time being, the most important problem with Diyarbakir is that in addition to 700 acres of existing hospitals, there was a commitment to building a regional health campus, including projects, and these investments in the form of three different hospitals were planned, but for a long time, these investments did not begin to combine the treasure fields in that area -- as well as for reasons related to zoning changes. For more than a year now, all the negatives that I've just submitted have been removed, so despite the fact that both 18 applications of the treasury land and all the development changes that the next municipality should have done, the projects are also not available, unfortunately. We're asking why, Mr. Health Minister. Again, our second challenge was: there was a large new hospital project, including the state hospital, which had been in place for many years, and the children's hospital next to Diyarbakır, and a housing outpost that belonged to the Ministry of Interior around it. The procedure has continued, given the same reasons for these things, but for more than a year now, all these zoning changes, zoning increases, all the legal procedures have been carried out. By whom? By the Treasury, by the city, by the county, whoever's involved. However, this hospital, unfortunately, has not yet been built. There has been no serious information as to when and what will be the outcome of this work. Dear friends, another important complaint point is the emergency services of hospitals. So, believe me, there's a police show on this television called "Back Streets" that happens in the emergency rooms of these hospitals, and if you listen to the patients, the relatives, they're right; if you listen to the doctors, the staff, if you listen to the other paramedics, they're right. Why is everyone right? Because it's not enough, it's hard-working, it's been working for a long time, there's a lot of direction all over Turkey, and the day doesn't go by, so there's not going to be an argument, a fight, a fight, or even a ground killing. However serious arrangements have been made in other matters, so far, there must be serious arrangements for this issue and for these emergency services as well. Another complaint point, dear friends, is that a lot of districts have really good investments, big hospitals are being made, but there are a few things that are not noticed here. One of them is Siverek State Hospital, and I'll give you an example. It's so far away from the city that some of them -- for example, a Siverek -- are almost out of the house -- I'm telling you this before you step on the gas until you get to that hospital -- you have a chance to take that patient to Diyarbakir or Urban Hospital. For him, such remote locations should not be assigned as well as the location of these hospitals. There are reasons: Sir, treasure land, cheap land. But so much investment should not be sacrificed. In the same way, some hospitals -- for example, Diyarbakır Environment Regional Hospital -- have been dissolving for very little time. So they're not being properly controlled or followed. A few years after a hospital is finished, it looks like it's a 35-40-year-old hospital. There's still a lot of extra expenses being paid for that, too. And that's pathetic. My respects, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0081par0042	Thank you, Mr. Tan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1st Amendments to the Constitutional Amendment to the Constitutional Court of Justice and the Constitution of the State of Turkey and the Constitution of Turkey. We propose "to increase Turkey's competitiveness and make it permanent, to meet the need for advanced technology and innovation of our country, and to replace it with the declaration of "for health care." The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0082par0051	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0081par0052	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0083par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, for the first time in my life, I would like to begin with a speech of thanks from this bench. I thank the Ministry of Health for the cooperation of this bill in both the lower commission and in the Commission and then in the phases ahead of the General Assembly. Madam Secretary, you've shown a collaboration we've really missed for three and a half years. I really appreciate this. That doesn't mean we accept every substance that happens here, doesn't mean we support every substance that happens here. But, for the first time in three and a half years, I felt like we were doing a good job, really trying to convince each other, and we meant well. For three and a half years, this has been our fight, our whole fight, let's make the law that way. I mean, we're all sons of this country, instead of getting out with violence and a majority of fingers, we're all patriots, we're human beings, no one has the right to measure their patriotism by a ruler. Everyone has come here with a certain amount of savings, so you have to take advantage of those savings. Yes, Mr. Secretary has taken advantage of our savings. Of course, there are some substances that we're against, but as a result of these studies, we have severely reduced the number of these substances. For example, our Ministry of Health has given up starting a health science university. It's a very important decision, and I'm really celebrating it. Because it's the job of the Ministry of Health to raise medical school students, not make people professors; it's the job of the academy, so we've decided to strengthen the academy by hand. And that was really very important. The second and most important clause in this law was intended to preserve the place of those assigned to the Ministry of National Education by adding a new law clause after the appointment of branch managers was cancelled by the State Department. And here the conscience prevails, and together, all my friends and I have decided that this clause should be removed. That's a bit of a relief to our conscience. So I see that this kind of work is efficient, and that's where I see it from, and that's how we're not going to take up too much of the time of the High Assembly. Now, in this 1st article and the establishment of TUSEB, Mr. Secretary of Health, yes, the Ministry of Health can build some institutions, work on these institutions, but the aim of these institutes is to increase Turkey's competitiveness, to make it continuous, instead of fancy, sound, and beautiful words -- or considering the priorities set by the High Council of Science and Technology -- instead of meeting the need for advanced technology and innovation, as we say in our proposal, to provide support for basic healthcare services, health care. We've stated this in our motive, in our motion for this clause, and we've intended to recall the Ministry of Health to the first step, the protective health care services, which is the primary task. If you accept this, you will change the whole spirit of TUSEB. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0084par0060	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 and the amendments to the provisions of some Law and Law Act 1. We propose and propose that the "responsibility of our country's need for advanced technology and innovation" be removed from the draft text. Seyfettin Yilmaz (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0085par0069	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0084par0070	Mr. Lütfü Türkkan is a member of the delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0086par0072	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the MHP Group on the 1st article of the Dair Law Bill, to establish the chair of the Turkish Institutes of Health, 615. Today, with the participation of the other groups and the MHP Group, Mr. President has shown a genuine compromise after this law came to Parliament. I take it this is a compromise of being the grandson of the conqueror. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to talk to you about a few things regarding the health problems in Kobeeli, if you'll excuse me. Thousands of workers are working in one of Turkey's largest industrial cities, Kopeli. Business accidents happen every day in the area where thousands of workers work, Mr. Minister. In between these work accidents, hand injuries, foot injuries, amputations, only microsurgery specialists intervene. However, unfortunately, we have only one microsurgery specialist who serves at the Deep Education and Research Hospital. As you know, the severed limbs must be reattached within four hours at the latest. Since the microsurgery expert did the sewing, this specialist has no chance of getting permission, this specialist has no chance of going anywhere else; when there are, there are serious problems. I wonder if your Ministry has taken any precautions for business accidents. Turkey's industrial capital is experiencing multiple hand-to- finger cuts. Is this microsurgery expert enough for you? There is also İlimtepe neighbourhood in the District of Bay Bay, Turkey. As of its location and height, we have always had a clean and healthy air in the area of Kopeli. This neighborhood, which has about 6,500 inhabitants, has not been evaluated enough so far, has been abandoned to its destiny. In particular, it is said that bronchitis and asthma patients have received health in İlimtepe. A hospital in this region will be a cure for both bronchitis and asthma, and will contribute seriously to the development of Ilimtepe. We have a request from Mr. Secretary of State as the Alexandrians. An investment you will make in this area will be a serious centre for the development of the region as well as for the treatment of lung diseases that are common in the region of Dilova, Gebze, Darica, and Meadowova. We also have a neighborhood of about 11,700 inhabitants in Dilovasi, in the district of Kopeeli, in the District of Sinan, the Architect. This is the 2nd largest neighborhood of Dilovasi. There's no health clinic, Mr. Secretary, although the population is very dense. Local residents have to go to the surrounding counties to be treated and examined. The neighborhood also suffers from Dilovasi Hospital, which serves only the emergency section. With a population of 11,700 people, we have a request for a health clinic in the district of Sinan neighborhood, which is larger than the 2nd largest district in Turkey. We ask that you bring this matter up immediately. There are no health clinics or hospitals in Çayırova, where 100,000 people live. Can you imagine, there's no health centre, no health clinics, a district near Istanbul, where many industrial facilities are located? Thejerovars have to use hospitals in other counties. Again, the lack of mouth and dental care centers is noted, Mr. Secretary. Besides, the patient's complaints are growing very often. The technology used in these already underprivileged centers is very old. That's why many patients are being transferred to the University of Alexandre and are waiting for months for their appointments to come. For these reasons, patients are forced to go to private health services. We want new health policies on oral and dental health. We demand that the oral and dental centers be upgraded immediately and be restored to the technical facility of all surgical initiatives in Kosheli. In this regard, I pray to God, the Lord, that the new law may bring good things to our country and to our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0087par0083	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 2 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the current law bill 615 be removed completely from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Kemal Aktaş Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0088par0096	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0089par0097	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0087par0098	I'm reading the reason: Despite the government's claim that red tape is the most troubled part so far, the AKP group creates a new layer of bureaucracy with each draft law. The new institutions that will be established along with this bill have no response to the urgent health needs of society. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There are three motions on the third article, the two are of the same nature, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 and the amendment of some Law and Law Acts; 3. Article 3. The excluding of his joke from the text, 1. In his joke, "TUSEB is in Istanbul," we propose and propose that "TUSEB's headquarters be changed to Ankara. Seyfettin Yilmaz Lütfu Türkkan Ali Öz Scholar Light S. Nevzat Korkmaz Celal Adan D. Ali Torlak Emin Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd Amendment to the Constitutional Amendment to the Constitutional Laws under some Laws and Laws under the Constitution of Turkey's Health Institutes was established in 615 rows. Article (1). The article "Istanbul" in his joke is to be changed to "Ankara" (3). We propose that his joke be taken out of the text. Aytücı Fatma Nur Serter Mahmut Tanal Free Special Nurettin Iron Kadir Gökmen Reminder Hülya Güven Süleyman Çelebi Hasan Ören Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of the 615 law bill, which is in place, be completely removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Kemal Aktaş Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with my latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0090par0129	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0087par0130	Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0091par0131	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. On the basis of this motion, we would like to address some issues, particularly regarding health problems in the local area. In virtually many counties, we have severe health problems. However, even though we have repeatedly offered suggestions for severe health problems in these provinces, I would like to point out here that despite the fact that we have submitted the files to the Minister of Health, there are not many solutions being developed, even though we are trying to draw attention to the question proposals from the stand. The province of Bingol is at the head of these provinces. In our province of Bingol, in almost all major diseases, relatives of the sick and the sick have to go to the surrounding provinces. So as of this hour, go to Diyarbakira, Erzuruma, university hospitals in Elaziğg, or education, research hospitals in Elazığ, and you will meet relatives of Bingöllu who are sick and sick all over the place. The reason for this is that even the simplest angio process, even the coronary angiography, can't be done in Bingol. In a city with a population of close to 300,000, a half-hour of coronary angiography is inexplicably unexplainable that it is still not being performed in Bingol, during your 12-year rule. In the same way, since the coronary intensive care unit does not exist, most severe heart patients have to go to the surrounding provinces. Since there is no unit for breast surgery -- although we now have friends who are breast surgeons -- most of the severe lung surgeries are being performed in the surrounding provinces. We've prepared a file on the health problems of the province of Bingöl and presented it to the Minister. At the moment, we suggested that the hospital, which is now being used as a hospital for Obstetrics and Children's Hospital, should be planned as a regional center of chest, heart vessel surgery, and that there would be conditions in this hospital that could be dealt with both severe patients related to the angio and coronary intensive care and breast surgery. But since he never came to life, there's always different plans, and there's always problems. Look, Bingöl Obstetrics and Children's Hospital -- at work, the hospital as a breast hospital -- has been turned into an obstetrics hospital -- is a newly opened hospital, but there is no children's intensive care in it. So if a child faces a disease that requires intensive care, he has to go to a hospital 200km away. That's why we lost a lot of kids on the road during the transfer. It's not difficult to create a child's intensive care unit, it's not difficult to build that equipment, it's not difficult to send an attending there, but there needs to be a healthy plan. Look, the husband, Bingol Obstetrics, looks like eight child specialists on the Health Department's staff distribution table at Children's Hospital, but two children's specialists do the job. So what we want to say here is that, despite the fact that every child specialist has been working all day, he's facing a very heavy health burden that he can't handle anymore. A new state hospital will be built, and it has been many years, and every year the motions we make will be delivered the following year. I, you know, I don't go into them, Mr. Secretary, with the tender dimensions, whose side it was made by, or anything like that. He knows them better. Each year it will end this year, and the next year it will end. The state hospital, which is called the state hospital, is still unfinished. So there's an election in 2015, and you could probably try to get it right before the election, and we'd be happy to, and we're doing his call. You know, since you can't open it every year -- it's going to be written as a plus point, it's going to give you an advantage -- at least in 2015 -- you can open this new hospital now, because we really lose dozens of citizens every month because of neglect and lack of service in Bingol. I'm calling for sensitivity. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0092par0142	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm going to read the same motions, I'm going to process them together, but if he demands it, I'm going to promise everyone separately. To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 and the amendment of some Law and Law Acts; 3. Article 3. Number one is to remove his joke from the text. "The centre of TÜSEB is in Istanbul" is in Ankara. We propose and propose that it be changed in the form of "TUSEB." Seyfettin Yilmaz (Adana) and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with these two proposals of the same nature? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0093par0153	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0092par0154	Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0094par0156	Mr. President, we have a motion to make a amendment to the Third Amendment of the bill on the establishment of the chair of the Turkish health institutes as the National Movement Party. Before I begin my words, I salute your grand delegation. In this motion we have submitted, we want to remove the third joke from the draft text and replace it with the centre of the Turkish health institute in Ankara. For that, of course, dear friends, we make this motion knowing the state department, knowing the state organization. You know, according to Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, Ankara is the capital of the Republic of Turkey. So according to this structure, all ministries make it Ankara-based. In Ankara, the presidency of Ankara -- as you know -- is not enough of its buildings in Ankara, they're building new, huge palaces for themselves -- all the ministries are here, the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Health in Ankara. We're looking at the institute now founded, the head of this institute, the Minister, the board members, all living in Ankara. What kind of organizational ability is that individuals are in Ankara, but the institute is at work from time to time in Istanbul, where the Minister will attend the board of directors meeting? Is Mr. Minister making up the law for himself because he resides in Istanbul? I mean, can that happen, guys? The reason for the transport to Istanbul must be made clear to parliament and to the opposition. Now, we say we take him to Istanbul. Istanbul has now become a huge metropolis, unmanageable; the population has risen to over 15 million. Now, shall we now form new forms of governance in literature? The subject is being discussed. On the one hand, there will be this kind of discussion and housing, transportation, infrastructure -- there will be bankruptcy flags on these issues in Istanbul, but you're still trying to raise Istanbul. Dear friends, the mind requires that the public institutions in Istanbul, as possible, be moved to Anatolia to support the state. You push away this matter, which the mind has brought, which the mind has commanded, and you try to take it to Istanbul. Dear friends, we need to focus very well on the years of the founding of the Republic of Turkey. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is taking a very serious stand against the countries in which the capital moves to Ankara. If we're a little focused on this struggle, why do the nations want to stay in Istanbul? I mean, their reasons may be different, but they're looking for a partnership between the holding of all these public institutions in Istanbul and the moving of all of AKP's public institutions to Istanbul. Please, come to your senses. Istanbul now faces a massive earthquake. You haven't taken a step towards Istanbul's tomorrow in 12 years, especially on the matter of the earthquake. There are thousands of households waiting to be repaired, waiting to be made resistant to the earthquake, and you haven't been able to make a measure of it, and you're still trying to take public institutions to Istanbul. Do you, dear friends, intend to lock Ankara's door? What kind of understanding is that? If possible -- again -- let's move public institutions that are concentrated in Istanbul to smaller cities that need the attention of the state. But now all this stress on Istanbul, all this pressure, it's no good to anyone. This motion is entirely within the mind's command. I'm waiting for your support, and I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0095par0165	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan of the Republican People's Party. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0096par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Minister, when I look at the reason for Bill 615, I would like to stress one thing: it is clear that cancer is rapidly increasing in our country and in the world, and that the measures against cancer are being taken and that some data about it are being known, and I read that, given the fact that it has risen to 20 percent by the year 20 percent, as well as other developed world countries in our country in the coming years, it is clear that cancer will rise to the first place among the causes of death. So it's kind of an emphasis on dying of cancer, wanting to prevent death from heart disease and vascular disease. In fact, you have a similar political policy, I'll tell you. When we said that cancer cases are above the averages of Turkey in the capital of the industry, in the Dilova, in the province's capital, we said that it is unfair to the people of Kopeli and Dilova. You said that there is no such thing. I'm telling you the data. The 2007 Ministry of Health publications, the figure Professor Murat Dinçer gave regarding the control of cancer in Turkey, cause of death in the 1st place, and 33% in Dilova. It's not my yield. It's from your Ministry of Health, who is now president of the Cancer Department of Health. Now, you're trying to get to a point where an institute should be established in Turkey, yes. I don't know where you're putting the head of the Department of Health. Two, why are you going outside Ankara, as my friend, the MP from the National Movement Party, mentioned? While the Ministry of Health and this structure are here, why are you in the account of building such a centre outside Ankara, while communication, transport and ministries are here in Turkey? Look, let me remind you that because of the sighting of cancer cases in Dilova, there is a decision made by the Parliamentary Commission in 2006. In this decision, there are a number of measures in the region to ensure that the pollution of the industry does not increase in cancer cases anymore. What was all that about a series of precautions? There's a report from the industry that should no longer be allowed to build a new industry if possible, and that the existing ones should get better, in 2006.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0097par0176	Please speak to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0096par0177	Sorry. What was done during your administration, dear lawmakers? From 2006, you established a coal-organized industrial area north of Dilova, built a chemical industrial area called the GEBKIM, set up IMES, and built a landfill next to it. So, you know, we're going to reduce Turkey's parameters to international parameters in the fight against cancer. You say, is that sincere? On the one hand, you're thinking about taking a series of measures from the Ministry at the point of preventing cancer, I agree, but in practice, you're watching and watching cancers grow again by narrowing down people's living spaces in the region of Dilova. Minister, you're Edirne, you know that side well. Recently, do you remember that Dr. Dilek Tuncer, a doctor of gastroenterology at a public hospital, the Public Hospital Association in Edirne, has made a statement. His statement was, precious MPs... : Due to the pollution brought by the Ergene River, the use of these waters in agricultural areas, due to the presence of prekanserogenic substances, could be passed on to nutrients due to the increased number of cases of cancer gastroenterological cases. What did you do? Or should I say you did, Governor, the Governor of Edirne has suspended the lady doctor. His motive is to present scientific data at a scientific meeting. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to know if you've conducted a procedure against the Governor or if you've launched an investigation into the authority of the Governor to remove a doctor's lady who makes a scientific statement without your knowledge. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0098par0183	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit to your votes two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. There are four motions on the fourth article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first joke (f) of the 4th article of the current 615 rows shall be changed in the following manner. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Suat Önal Oya Eronat Osman love Look "f) Scientific contribution to the Ministry in determining quality and acretation rules in health care in cooperation with ministry-related institutions, higher education institutions and private sectors, and mutual recognition agreements with international and regional Accredition units and organisations, including the addition of health care services, 27/10/1999 dates and 4457 Turkish Accreditation Foundation Foundation Foundation Foundations No. 4457. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 and the amendment of some Law and Law Acts; 4. Article 2. The phrase "medical institutions" mentioned in his joke was removed from the text of the substance, 4. the release of the bill of the article "Building and/or partnering companies abroad on the basis of the minister's approval" 4. We propose and propose the addition of the "exclusion of its own institutions" to come after the clause "provide" in the "f" joke. S. Nevzat Korkmaz Lütfu Türkkan Ali Öz Zühal Topci Oktay Vural Scholar Light Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the Constitutional Court of Human Rights, the Constitution shall be held in accordance with Article 615 of the Constitutional Court of Human Rights and the Council of Ministers. Article (1). On this basis, we propose that we start a company at home and/or to share in companies established abroad, to have a privileged share in established companies be removed from the text on behalf of the minister's approval. Aytücı Fatma Nur Serter Mahmut Tanal Hasan Ören Free Manisa Manisa Manisa Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of the current law bill 615 be removed completely from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Kemal Aktaş Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0099par0217	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0100par0218	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0098par0219	I'm reading the reason: The TUSEB, which will be established with this bill, has a purpose and function that will include the duties and functions of all the Institutes of Higher Education and all the institutions within them. While it is stated that it has scientific and administrative autonomy, it is completely governed by the Minister of Health and other central administration representatives, its decisions, its working areas are made by them. There is no scientific and administrative autonomy. So together with TUSEB, a hierarchical structure is created with representatives of the executive body and capital. The government's health policies should not be based on the transformation of products created by R&D activities into commercial value and supporting entrepreneurship. It is imperative that health policies and R&D activities be organised in an accessible manner by every part of society. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 4th Amendment to the Constitutional Amendment to the Constitutional Laws under some Laws and Laws under the Constitution of Turkey's Health Institutes is the 4th Amendment to the Constitution of Turkey's Health Institutes. Article (1). In my statement, we propose the release of the phrase "Building companies in and out of the country and/or abroad on the approval of the minister" from the text. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0101par0229	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0098par0230	Who's going to talk?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0102par0231	The Qur'an will speak.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0098par0232	Mr. Reminder, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0103par0233	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we don't have any negative opinions about this clause, which is out of the question, but I'd like to take this opportunity to say a few words about the problems of dentists. In recent years, the Ministry of Health considers itself the sole authority to determine the needs, problems, and methods of solutions for dentists, ignoring room and troops. The Ministry, which makes rules without consultation with representatives of trade groups, can be a part of the problem on its own with its attitude, not to resolve problems. The occupational organisation of dentists is the Union of Turkish Dentists. Its goal is to determine, meet, meet the needs of occupational and occupational members, and to remove the obstacles that stand in the way of shortcomings and occupational activities. Hence, the ministry's failure to accept the unity's opinion on a matter that concerns dentists means that it sees itself as the only authority, much less as it ignores the TDB. Last month, Mr. Taner Yücel met with our Minister of Health to discuss regulations on the Special Health Institutions presented by Mouth and Dental Health Services, and the Minister stated that TDB will surely be involved in these regulations changes. Once again, we wish the Minister would remember his word. Because what we get is a draft far beyond solving problems and meeting needs. Dentists continue to be agitated. However, he said that there was no thought for closing the clinics, that the profession was based on a practice, that non-employees could not be capitalised in any of their oral and dental services models, but the current state of the bill is a draft of an arrangement that opens the way for those who do not have a dental practice to be given through major centers and for those who do not have a dentist to participate in as a partner in capital. It is important to remember that regulations on the Special Health Institutions of Mouth and Dental Health have been changed before. But the main rules are always protected. What needs to be done today should be arrangements for developing protective mouth and dental health methods based on the needs of the profession. The fact that our profession is in the hands of capital will make dentists work, and it will become even more expensive, despite the fact that access to the ministry is thought to be available. Health is one of the most basic human rights in the world. Each branch of health requires special expertise, as it is of particular importance. The oral and dental health services are one of them, and the dentists who serve in the field also have major problems. Like other physicians, dentists suffer from infection, cutting and piercing tool injuries, exposure to chemicals, stress, and other professional health problems. These problems occur over time, as close to 50% of dentists say that the most negative aspect of the profession is health problems that have arisen over time. In the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance, changes must be made, and salaries coefficients and autonomy rights must be rearranged, and the amount of weariness for dentists must be applied. On the other hand, the number of patients that are looked at daily in ADSMs and the sum of the transactions are far above the world's standards. Although there are differences in the number of patients that are daily looked at among the ADSMs, the number of initiativeal transactions in the standards of the International Association of Dental Doctors and the Union of Turkish Dentists is mentioned around 15-18, the number is up to 60° in some parts of our country. The number of procedures a dentist can perform must be determined by scientific standards. In addition to a quality service presentation, it is also important to protect the doctor's health. In addition, different practices related to working hours off-duty in each district and ADSM are subject to complaints about the number of patients taken care of and the fee per processing. Dentists who do the same work must have standard working conditions and fees in all departments. Another important topic that we constantly mention is about receiving services from clinics. Six years ago, a sustainable project was presented by the Union of Turkish Dentists to the government to be serviced by freelance dentists, particularly the practice. Despite all the promises, this thing has never been done. Next week is the week of the Dental Doctors. I'm asking the Minister again here, give the dentists good news for next week, and we'll find a way to buy oral dental care from the office. I'd like to say on behalf of dentists here that you have a great contribution to oral dental care in Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0104par0243	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 and the amendment of some Law and Law Acts; 4. Article 2. The phrase "medical institutions" mentioned in his joke was removed from the text of the substance, 4. the release of the bill of the article "Building companies abroad and/or abroad for such purposes on the approval of the minister, and having a privileged share in established companies," 4. We propose and propose that the clause be added "exclusive of its own institutions" after the "financial" clause in the "f" joke. S. Nevzat Korkmaz (Isparta) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0105par0255	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0104par0256	Mr. Yilmaz, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0106par0257	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 and to the amendment proposal for the amendment of the 4th Amendment to the Amendment to the Amendment to some Law and Law Act. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, as the Justice and Development Party has become a classic, all its practices have been through a process in Turkey where company, profit, rant, the idea of supporters turning the corner is on the agenda. Now, even in a matter of basic services, such as health, the ministry should be highlighted here, while science should be put first, while studies at the point of public health care should be highlighted, while another company has been launched. Here are private hospitals, private companies, profits, rant, which are now the most important issues on the agenda with the Justice and Development Party. Mr. Secretary, health has many problems, and rather than solving these problems, I find it difficult to understand how to expose random systems. Have you been able to solve the basic health problems of society? Today, your highest pride as AKP government was the level of satisfaction in health. When we look at the basics of this, we can all see together that in the 57th Government, in the early years, you were involved in the effort to continue the reforms that then Minister of Health Osman Durmus started, but when we look at the last few years, I don't know if you're visiting hospitals, you're doctors, but when you go, you can't get past the queues. He goes to make an appointment, takes three months, six months. Again, you're looking at an increase in income from the citizens' pockets every day. But it turns out that when the Speakers of the Justice and Development Party take over the microphone, they talk about the revolution in health, especially Mr. Secretary. I'm inviting you to Adana, Mr. Secretary. One day, for God's sake, let's visit these hospitals in Adana. On Sunday, I visited my beloved Rifleman's Hospital in Adana. Adana is Turkey's fourth and fifth largest province. A city that should be the center of health, Adana. I arrived at Adana this Sunday, and I swear to you, I was on foot on the 6th floor, going to visit the patients, a patient in the interior. Now, those 70-year-old women, 80-year-old women, gasped as they went up those stairs. And two days ago, Mr. Secretary, in a place like Adana -- my love, a hospital in the middle of Adana the rifleman -- the elevator falls, nine workers get hurt. I don't know if you're aware of this as the Minister of Health. Now, if the workers are injured in a hospital that deals with the health of the people... the patient has come to the hospital, make sure he's on foot on the 6th floor... and with many people sitting on the stairs... it's not a transmission, it's Sunday that I've traveled. Now, health is paralyzed in the 4th, 5th largest city of Turkey, such as Adana. Go to the hospitals. In 2011, in June, in the election squares, the Prime Minister said: "We are not like other parties. " He made 12 promises, and one in health care. You see -- you didn't look like anyone else -- four years passed, and just the other day he came to Station Square, and four years later, they laid a foundation for show, and now there's no nail. When do you plan to build this hospital, this city hospital? After that, the public hospital, the old state hospital of Adana. You said you were going to empty it because it's ready to collapse. You haven't moved in two years. When you went to the specimen hospital, a new TOKI sample hospital was built there. Dear friends, because the ambulance doesn't come in, you wash his emergency room twice because patients can't come in. What kind of understanding is that? You're redecorating. Talk to the TOKI sample hospital. You've built rooms there. They're going to examine patients in these rooms, and there's no room for doctors to work in. Go look, they're trying to build a room by combining toilets, and they're trying to serve here. Where is the revolution in health? It's spring time again. Look, there have been 250,000 people in Tekir, 100,000 people in Reddağ, a place in the Lakes of Yayla, a place in which the landslide is dense, and for four years we have lost our tongue. There's no doctor in the 200,000 population. I mean, aren't those people human? Isn't it your job to figure that out if the weather has brought the extremism to a point? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] People go there; do they go to the plateau or do they think about health problems? After that, we jumped the age of health. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0107par0270	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Let's walk around together.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0106par0272	Let's go for a ride; I left on Sunday. Mr. Hodja, the microphone is here. You can answer.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0107par0273	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first joke (f) of the 4th article of the current 615 rows shall be changed in the following manner. Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends "f) Scientific contribution to the Ministry in determining quality and acretation rules in health care in cooperation with ministry-related institutions, higher education institutions and private sectors, and mutual recognition agreements with international and regional Accredition units and organisations, including the addition of health care services, 27/10/1999 dates and 4457 Turkish Accreditation Foundation Foundation Foundation Foundations No. 4457. Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0108par0282	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0109par0283	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0107par0284	I'm reading the reason: In terms of preventing mission conflicts with the Turkish Accreditation Agency, excluding the accretion of health care, the provision of the provisions of the Turkish Accreditation Foundation 27/10/1999 and 4457 is sealed. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes the 4th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 5 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 5th Amendment to the Constitutional Amendment to the Constitutional Laws under some Law and Law shall be established under the Constitution of Turkey's Health Institutes. Article 1. We offer to remove the phrase "these are the things" in his joke. Lightshooter Free Special Nurettin Demir Süleyman Çelebi Kadir Gökmen Öğülya Trust Fatma Nur Serter Mahmut Tanal Hasan Ören Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5 of the current law bill 615 be completely removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Kemal Aktaş Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0110par0307	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0111par0308	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0107par0309	I'm reading the reason: The President of the Institutes of Health Sciences of Turkey, although expressed as an autonomous institution, is actually subject to special legal provisions that are excluded from general law. There is no mention of the autonomy of an institution where the chairman of the board is Minister of Health, where members of the board are determined by political will. The chairman of the Governing Body, the board of directors and the Council of Counsellors will all accounts in favour of power in an institution most of which is determined by political will. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm having the other motion read.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0112par0314	We can draw the motion, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0107par0315	You're filming? They've drawn the motion, sir. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 6th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 615 is the 615th Amendment to the Constitutional Amendment to the Constitution of the State of Turkey's Health Institutes and to the Constitution of Turkey's Health Institutes. The first sentence of the article (1) is "the board of directors, the president and the head of the institute." We propose that it be changed. Aytüğ Thrower Fatma Nur Serker Kadir Gökmen Öğmen Öğüğümümün Mahmut Tanal Binnaz İz Hasan Ören Muharrem Light Free Süleyman Çelebi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly To be added "two members of the Council of Higher Education" after the first statement of Article 615 of Article 615, we propose that the phrase "seven" in the same sentence be replaced as "nine"; to change the second joke in the following way; to change the phrase "five" in the third joke; to change the phrase "four" into "five." Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Oya Eronat Osman love Look Suat Önal The amount specified in the first joke (c) can be increased to five times as much by the Council of Ministers. This amount is applied for each calendar year at the beginning of the year by increasing the rate of re-valuement declared by the Tax Act 213, dated 4/1/1961." To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and demand that the 6th amendment of the current law, which is 615 rows, be removed from the draft text of the law. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Kemal Aktaş Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the Commission agree with my latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0113par0345	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0114par0346	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0107par0347	I'm reading the reason: In Turkey, NGOs must be present with a binding political representation in the decision-making mechanisms on critical issues concerned with health policy and the health of society. There is no understanding of that in TUSEB, which is envisioned by the draft law. This structure is not a solution to the breakthrough caused by centralisation and centralisation. The chairman of the Governing Body, the board of directors and the Council of Counsellors will be held in favour of central management and power in an institution largely determined by political will. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly To be added "two members of the Council of Higher Education" after the first statement of Article 615 of Article 615, we propose that the phrase "seven" in the same sentence be replaced as "nine"; to change the second joke in the following way; to change the phrase "five" in the third joke; to change the phrase "four" into "five." Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends The amount specified in the first joke (c) can be increased to five times as much by the Council of Ministers. This amount is applied for each calendar year at the beginning of the year by increasing the rate of re-valuement declared by the Tax Act 213, dated 4/1/1961." Does the commission agree with this motion? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0115par0359	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0107par0360	I'm reading the reason: The board of directors of TUSEB aims to create a more appropriate environment for the addition of two members from the board of higher education and co-operation with universities. It is also envisioned that the Court of Ministers shall determine the scope of the authority given to the Governing Body by allowing it to allow R&amp;D projects on the operating area of TUSEB over $1 million in case public resources are used, provided it is authorized to increase by the Council of Ministers' decision to five times as much as necessary. Depending on the change made in the first joke, the number of members of the Governing Body -- from seven to nine -- has been redefined. I submit to your votes this motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 615 Term of Turkey's Health Institutes Chairmanship, and the 6th Amendment to the Constitution of the Law and the Law. The first sentence of the article (1) is "the board of directors, the president and the head of the institute." We propose that it be changed. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0116par0371	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0107par0372	Mr. Light, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0117par0374	Mr. President, I've taken a pledge on the 6th Amendment of Law Bill 615. I salute you all. Of course, the board of directors' duties have been discussed. In particular (e.g.) it was written that the public resource would be used, including the presidential projects, and would be allowed to allow the RD projects within the scope of the operating area of over 1 million Turkish liras, including the opinions of the scientific boards. Of course, if there really is going to be a study in science, if there's going to be an RD project, no one will say anything to them, but are there universities in it, especially universities that are against you; we're wondering if there are other institutions that can work in the field of medicine, we're thinking about them a lot, we're thinking about them. We don't think so. Of course, especially when we saw the motions you've brought in in these laws, we started to get a little more obsessive, because we have to look under every law that comes in, when something changes, because it's always an Indian. Same with this one. Now, 1 million Turkish liras suddenly went up to $5 million Turkish lira. I don't think there's anything healthy under here. The Council of Ministers has been given more authority, and is expected to be increased. You're going to say: "Don't be so big." But in all the plans we've actually seen so far, when something comes out of it, something is being provided for someone. So we're thinking that if this material is going to be passed like this, if it's going to help science, if it's going to be given to all of the universities, if it's going to be given to them, if it's going to be given to them, if it's going to be given to them, or if it's going to be given to them in the field of mathematics, there's Saint Nesin's math school, he's doing very good work in mathematics -- he has nothing to do with it, but -- we also know if you're going to offer a law to give money to institutions like this. Of course, when we discussed health, in particular in Turkey, it has now become inevitable that there has been a huge increase in child mortality in recent years. Furthermore, we now see how much satisfaction has fallen, how much health has become rich, especially when the contributions are increased, and the drug has been applied for base price, but we see terrible money in drug purchases as real. No matter how much satisfaction there is in health, I'd like you to hear what the citizen says when you land on the field, their reflection is bad for the citizen right now. Of course, when we called it health... while I was just opening the House, while I was saying about Erzincan, Erzincan was told there would be a state hospital in Erzincan, and an additional hospital in the university hospital. It hasn't been done in three years. I've been told there's a problem with publicisation. Okay, I did, but it's over now, it's over last year, even at the beginning of this year. So it could have been done this year. In Erzincan, the hospital is operating at 100 per cent. Yes, it can be bypassed every day, it can be done every day, but if you could see what my friends there are going through, and if those colleagues of ours -- if they were sitting down, Mr. Health Minister, I'd like to meet you, respect you -- what they're really going through, what my friends are going through, when I bring them up on the agenda, what they're going through in that basement emergency room, even if you could see what they're going through. Plus, we know that there's no parking spaces around the hospital, that the city hasn't moved a bit about it, that the Ministry of Health is there -- put into college -- whether it's college or should we do it, that it's in conflict, that it's in the Ministry of Development, that the Ministry of Development is still not on the agenda. When we look at all this, we have to look at how health problems have been. Plus, the point is, the hospitals in Erzincan are close to 100 percent, 94% full. When those documents arrive, the authorities and influential people here say, "What is the population of Erzincan? What is the population of Erzincan?..." Okay, right, Erzincan, because it's an immigration province. Here, the sugar beets have fallen, so he is migrating; there is unemployment, therefore he is migrating; but when you call Erzincan, you will not look at Erzincan alone. At one point, a patient was sent here to Kelkit. But Erzincan, Kelkit, Erzincan, Tunceli, many districts of Erzincan, Bingley; Erzincan, many districts of Sivas, took the patients and solved the problems of these patients, and I am sorry to inform you that these hospitals are inadequate. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0118par0386	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the 6th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four motions on the 7th article: The 7th draft of the current 615 rows. Article 1 of the article. In his joke, we propose the addition of the declaration of the head of the Institute of TÜSEB to come after the declaration of the president. Seyfettin Yilmaz Lütfu Türkkan Ali Öz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 and the 7th Amendment to the Constitution of the Law and the Law. In the article (1), we offer to include the declaration of the head of the institutes of TÜSEB to be added after the declaration of the Defense Industry Undersecretary. Aytücı Fatma Nur Serter Mahmut Tanal Binnaz Earth Hasan Kören Free Special Süleyman Çelebi Kadir Gökmen Öğülya Trust İstanbul İzmir Nurettin Demir Muğla Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article 7 of Article 7 of the Common Law Bill 615, we propose the addition of the declaration "Turkey Academy of Sciences" to come after the declaration of "Turkey Scientific and Technological Research," and the introduction of "three members to be elected" to be added to the first sentence of the first sentence of the first article of the first article of the 7th Article of the Common Law Bill; and we propose and propose that the declaration of "half eight" be changed into two, following the declaration of "six members to be elected." Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Oya Eronat Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 7 of the current law bill 615 be removed completely from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Kemal Aktaş Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with my latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0119par0419	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0118par0420	I'm reading the reason: The President of the Institutes of Health Sciences of Turkey is subject to special laws that have been excluded from general law. There is no mention of the autonomy of an institution where the chairman of the board is Minister of Health, where members of the board are determined by political will. The chairman of the Governing Body, the board of directors and the Council of Counsellors is not likely to conduct independent scientific work for the benefit of the community, which is largely determined by political will. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article 7 of Article 7 of the Common Law Bill 615, we propose the addition of the declaration "Turkey Academy of Sciences" to come after the declaration of "Turkey Scientific and Technological Research," and the introduction of "three members to be elected" to be added to the first sentence of the first sentence of the first article of the first article of the 7th Article of the Common Law Bill; and we propose and propose that the declaration of "half eight" be changed into two, following the declaration of "six members to be elected." Mehmet Naci Bostancı (Amasya) and his friends Commission, do you agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0120par0431	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0121par0432	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0118par0433	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to include three members to be reported by the Turkish Academy of Sciences and the NGO. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 7th Amendment to the Constitution of the Constitutional Court of Justice and the Constitution of the State of Turkey and the Constitution of Turkey. We propose the addition of the term "Secretary of Defense, Vice President," to be added after the declaration of "TSEB institute heads." The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0122par0444	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0118par0445	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0123par0447	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on Article 7 of the bill on the establishment of the Turkish health institutes. I salute the grand jury. This clause, my friends, is trying to tell us how the high council of advisors is going to be formed. We want the heads of the institute involved. So every institute has a president, and these presidents can be on the high counseling board, and there's nothing wrong with that. There's already been enough government councils, so at least we're saying that the heads of the institute, with their scientific identities, will contribute to the high council of advisors, and we've prepared a motion in this way. We ask that this motion be evaluated and accepted. My friends, while you were setting up TUSEB, you just said that this is the president of the Turkish health institutes, with the president and the board of directors accepting it, it can support RD projects up to a trillion liras -- so with the old money, it's good. So all research, RD studies, these activities are supported, there's no objection at all. And then you came up with a motion, and you said: "We can take it up to 5 million Turkish liras by the Council of Ministers, 5 million Turkish liras." And sitting there, I actually said, "Yes, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good for cancer research, it's good for chronic illness, it's good for child health research, it's good for children's health research. For years, we were in a position to be seriously palm-opened to give our children a dissertation, and today the universities are still in a position to do their thesis, to do their final thesis. Yes, support them, but I suggest you support their thesis in the way they deserve. We're paying this much money for research, and we need to know very well that these investigations don't happen without assistants. I used to be a professor, and in all my research, I'd tell all the excited assistants who wanted to contribute to science, and they'd come and help me when they'd run out of shifts. Now, when we look at the situation of the residents -- so that's five trillion liras -- when we give the money to just one research -- it makes our hearts tingle when residents work day after day, under the watch, almost ignoring their rights of essence. Mr. Health Minister isn't here right now, but our Commissioner is a medical professor, and he had assistants. I'm making it very clear that as soon as possible, assistant associations or assistant communities should be invited to the table and their problems should be placed on the table. Our assistant friends have serious problems, and in the first place, they're subjected to inhumanity, such as the extracurricular seizure. Look, my dear friends, while I was a faculty member, my assistants took shifts every other day. The way we've been raised, it's as if it's the fate of medicine to keep watch this day after day, they learn very good things. We've grown up like this, but we now understand that it's not true, that it's not true in changing world conditions. We don't even have to make a law like that in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, we don't even have to make a law for such an event. With just a call from here, we can help our fellow assistants get out of keeping watch every day within the framework of human rights, plus, on top of that, we can improve the rights of residents by spending money on assistants like the institutions we spend so much money on. Of course, they should keep watch, and we should pay their watch money in the way they deserve. With three or five liras, the seizure allowance can't be avoided. In our time, we used to keep watch, and we didn't get paid for the shift, but he stayed in that period. In the liberal economy that you brought in, or when health was marketed, doctors are now thinking about money, so I don't blame them. I'm saying let's give them the benefit of the doubt, and we'll get rid of those other assistants on the day-to-day shift. I salute you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0124par0456	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. The 7th draft of the current 615 rows. Article 1 of the article. In his joke, we propose the addition of the declaration of the head of the Institute of TÜSEB to come after the declaration of the president. Seyfettin Yilmaz (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0125par0465	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0124par0466	Mr. Oz, here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0126par0468	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the establishment of the chair of the Turkish Health Institutes No. 615, and to the amendment motion for the 7th Amendment to the amendment to the amendment of the Law and Law Act. I hereby salute your high council. First of all, I would like to present to you that I am pleased to say that in both the Commission and the subcommittee work, in the process of serious appeals to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I appreciate the withdrawal of certain materials, the regulation, the unappreciative opposition, that we have somehow been re-opened and accepted. However, in this general sense, it does not mean that we have completely given up on our views on the establishment of the chairmanship of the Turkish health institutes here, the ideas that we had expressed there. From the beginning, we say: As in Turkey and all over the world, it is not possible to express a serious effort to investigate cancer disease, to avoid it, to deepen research about it, but in the effort to create new institutions that belong to some institutions here, there is no way that we can accept that you have built a structure that is not autonomous, no matter how much you call it. It is not possible to call this structure ▪ when we observe who its presidency consists of, both of the boards of directors and of the control boards, of which authorities are in status. This building is dedicated to the Ministry of Health special institutions... Our biggest concern here has actually been expressed in the previous article, and we've often opposed that in the Commission, with the authority of the head of the institute and the head of the RD project, which has previously been decided by the under 1 million TL, you increase the consent of the president five times over here, with your own new motion. And so, in this law that we've been opposed to from the beginning, you've confirmed that we smell trade in front of science. So if you really don't have the effort to move things around with the structure that you really want to build here, then we're all going to discuss it over and over again here in the years that we're going to be able to figure out what this structure is going to gain and what it's going to lose, when there's a lot of problems in health. In fact, the situation in Turkey's medical schools, educational research hospitals today, unfortunately, has not been parallel to the situation in which you've been bragging about for 12 years. You can see that when you actually walk around the field. Look, we're having serious problems with patient transfers and transplants when we're transferring patients from somewhere, from a county or a county -- and I believe you're having the same problems. There are citizens who have been victimised by some of the previous practices of the Minister of Health, who, on this occasion, emerged from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, even lost their lives. I want you to know that all the people who have lost their lives due to this delay from not being interfered in time are surely responsible. We need a lot of new regulations on these structures. In fact, it's a pleasure to say that Mr. Minister accepted our opposition at the point where the Ministry of Health, which we strongly oppose in this law from the very beginning, has taken a step back from it, but I would like to say that in the meantime, I certainly hope that Mr. Secretary will consider the voices that sound right, even from the opposition, to make new adjustments to him. There are serious problems in Turkey, family health clinics, community health centers, education and research, and our friends at the normal university have huge problems. For 12 years, the Justice and Development Party has been in power. Therefore, especially at the point where health workers' problems are resolved, I regret to inform the health workers that your actions are inadequate, that you have not kept your commitments, including Mr. Prime Minister, at the point of recovery, and that I urge you to take immediate steps at this point, and I respectfully salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0127par0476	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th Amendment to your votes, along with the motion that has already been passed: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 7 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 8th Amendment to the Constitutional Amendment to the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution and the Constitution of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615. We propose that the article (4) be changed in the following way. The presidents of the institute are appointed by the Minister for three years after the president's proposal was offered by the single elected member of the scientific board of the relevant institute. The head of the institute, which expires, can be reassigned in the same way for two more periods. Light Horseman Nurettin Demir Free Special Süleyman Çelebi Kadir Gökmen Öğülya Trust Fatma Nur Serter Mahmut Tanal Binnaz Earth Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Your bill is 8. 2 of m. We propose that the last sentence of his joke be removed from the article text. Seyfettin Yilmaz S. Nevzat Korkmaz Lütfu Türkkan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0128par0500	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0127par0501	Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0129par0503	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your delegation. We want the last sentence of Article 8 of Article (2) to be removed from the draft text because the statement there is said that the president, secretary general and board members can be removed from office, regardless of the time specified in the top joke, if necessary, a sentence that is completely open to pleasure and eliminates the effectiveness of the joke at the base. Dear friends, I have been promised here to share an explanation with you. Vice President of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Sezgin Tanrıkulu has made a statement and said in his statement: "I apologize a thousand times for the events of my class. He also has the authority to represent both the Vice President and the party. So, his word, dear friends, is a word that cannot be addressed as a personal word. Furthermore, on a news channel yesterday, he made it clear that the President General also knew that I had to make this statement on this channel. So, I came to you as a citizen, as well as as as as as as a citizen, to express my desire for an explanation from the intellectual rulers of the Republican People's Party, as it concerns the history of the entire Turkish nation. Dear friends, you have to study the matter of my class very well, understand it very well. To think of it as a conflict of sects, it's synonymous that you don't know history at all. Both Mr. Davutoglu's comparison with Kerbela and Dersim is a big freak, a big surprise, and the centers that offer this issue, as if a massacre had been done to the members of a sect to draw our brothers into it, are in great error, folly, and betrayal. My lesson is an act of action towards the unity of the state and the integrity of the nation. It began with the martyrdom of our Mehmetchiks and the destruction of our outposts and the destruction of state buildings, and the state has been waiting six months for this matter to end in itself. But as time went on, as this issue began to build on other cities, like any other state, the Republic of Turkey had to intervene with a defensive reflex; blood flowed. I wish it wasn't. I wish it wasn't a riot. I wish it wasn't a government intervention. However, the state had no choice but to suppress an action against its nation. All over the world, it's been approached just as it's been approached by action. This matter, dear friends, is a matter of separatism. Just like today, imperialism had a play on our land to raise a brotherly quarrel. Today, I would also like to call your attention again to the presence of the PKK's ringleaders in charge of the Dersim uprising. An atheist terrorist organization has no business with the Aflammatoryness of Islam or Sunniness. In that sense, the explanation of your Lord Godkulu is grave. Our CHP friends, who have stated on every platform that they were the party founded by Ataturk, have faced Mustafa Kemal Ataturk for the first time, unfortunately, at the point of denial.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0130par0509	That's not true.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0129par0510	Adeta is a buffer zone between them and Ataturk, and I regret to inform you that this statement for the Dersim uprising was left on the other side of the river, Ataturk. That's what I see. People's conscience has been injured. Not only Ataturk but Ismet Pasha has been offended. Therefore, I sincerely hope that our CHP friends will bring an explanation for the better understanding of the Turkish nation, and I salute the grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0131par0513	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0132par0515	Mr. President, the MP has made serious, grave accusations against our party as a result of a statement from our vice president, but, you can appreciate that I have no chance to respond in two minutes. In a moment, I will respond to these criticisms by taking a statement on the 8th Amendment. I'll tell you this in advance to get him on the books.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0131par0516	Yes, Mr. Altay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615, as well as the amendments to the provisions of some Law and Law. We propose that the article (4) be changed in the following way. The presidents of the institute are appointed by the Minister for three years after the president's proposal was offered by the single elected member of the scientific board of the relevant institute. The head of the institute, which expires, can be reassigned in the same way for two more terms." The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0133par0526	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0131par0527	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0134par0529	Thank you. Mr. President, members of parliament, I stand before you to explain to you how wrongly and unresponsively the decision a member of the National Movement Party has made about the Republican People's Party's Party as a matter of our vice president's statement to the press. On this occasion, I'd like to remind the congressman... that the MP... has taken it out of the chest twice a year... and taken it out of an arsenal... and fell too early in the game of the lesson weapon he used against the opposition, Mr. Congressman, if only you hadn't fallen, that's one. Sezgin Tanrıkulu, from those who suffer, from those who live in pain, if the pain will stop, I apologize on behalf of CHP. He has a statement, which is what I know. In my class...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0135par0533	There was a massacre in my class, he said.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0134par0534	You come, you talk here Metiner, don't drive me crazy!
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0135par0535	There was a massacre in my class, he said.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0134par0536	Come talk to me. I'll tell you. Behave yourself, will you?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0135par0538	Don't twist your words.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0134par0539	Show some manners!
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0135par0540	I'm not gonna learn manners from you!
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0136par0541	Please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0134par0542	Yeah, you're being rude right now.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0136par0543	Please...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0134par0544	I'll talk, listen, be decent!
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0137par0545	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0136par0546	Please don't talk to each other, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0134par0547	Mr. President, I demand a minute of my time.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0136par0548	Go ahead, please.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0134par0549	I wish what happened in my class had not happened. My class is a pain in Turkey, and there have been things that shouldn't have happened. The state, of course, takes certain measures in the event of an attempt, including military measures. But I'm the one who said on this stand six months ago that people have the freedom to rebel, and the government has to show its most compassionate face and arms to the people who rebel. I said, "I said so." However, Dersim has nothing to do with the Republican People's Party, as much to do with the Republican People's Party as it has to do with the AKP, as well as with the MHP. It has to do with HDP...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0138par0550	No way!
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0134par0551	Yeah, that's it, that's it. All of the soldiers who carried out those strict military measures in my class, all of whom caused unnecessary deaths, became members of the Democratic Party that left after him. On the day of the massacre, Celal Bayar is a member of the Democratic Party. Today we are the continuation of the Democratic Party.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0139par0553	Celal Bayar is a follower of...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0134par0554	Congressmans, Dersim is not a weapon you can use. If that's the case, if you'd been a bit sincere about my class, there's been a commission set up for the petition committee in this House. Has it been established, Mr. Bostanci, has it been established? Did you get close to 50,000 documents? Why don't you look at them? Why is there no study of that? Why isn't that commission working? Not leaving history to historians, trying to use historical events as a political lever, trying to cover up the agenda that you've ruined, the agenda of Turkey, won't save you. Our understanding of the lesson is evident; it should not have happened, and it should not have happened, and I wish it had not happened, that the man who had said to him: Hang me before my son had been heard, and that man should have been hanged before his son. These aren't the right things. Back in the day, people were cutting each other up with swords, making dorms. Now, when an axe hits a tree, there's all kinds of apocalypse. Value judgments and perceptions have changed. Every event has to be assessed in the circumstances. In my class, it would seem normal for people not to commit to the new authority established for that day at the first moment, nor would they accept it. A rehabilitation process could have been run by a rehabilitation mechanism, but it didn't happen. What happened out there? Today there have been painful events that cannot be accepted in the norms of humanity, which are unacceptable in today's norms, but the Republican People's Party is not at the point of apologizing to the people of my class for these events. It's the government of the Republic of Turkey that's causing those events and causing those sufferings to Turkey. Look, we don't call it the 5th government, it's the government of the Republic of Turkey and it's been wronged.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0140par0556	Why did the Vice President apologize? That's our problem.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0141par0557	Oh, it's over. We've given you an opportunity to explain, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0134par0558	Wait, what did I say was wrong? You don't understand what I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0140par0559	Do you understand that the Intuitive God-fearing has done wrong?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0134par0560	If only Sezgin Godkulu had apologized on his behalf.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0140par0561	In the name
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0134par0562	Because no political party has to apologize for my class. It is the state of the Republic of Turkey who will apologize, if you will, it is as simple as that.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0142par0563	You were the government.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0134par0564	Metiner, don't do this.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0142par0565	You were the government, you were the government, you were the governor.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0134par0566	You were the government, your grandfather, my grandfather, all of us. Get on with it. Every time you're stuck, every time you get Turkey into trouble, every time you're involved in a dirty business, you think you can save yourself by referring to a one-party period, a memory refresher about the one-party period. Everyone knows everything. If the Republican People's Party was responsible for my class, it would be your MP from there today. Two of the members of my class are sitting in the ranks of the Republican People's Party. Even this is a clear indication of how insincere you are about this and how you have never understood the feelings of the people of my class. Those who scratch my class are shameful. Scratching my class does nothing for this incompetent government and is not very moral. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0143par0570	But you were going to Yavuz Selim.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0144par0571	Thank you, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0145par0572	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0146par0573	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0144par0574	One moment, Mr. Lawmakers, I'll complete the motion and then I'll consider your demands. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, he will answer because he himself asked Mr. Bostanci a question. Mr. Korkmaz, you...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0147par0578	Mr. President, the deputy president of the Republican People's Party Party, Mr. Hatip, has accused myself of not understanding Dersim, not understanding the riot, and of using it politically. I'll answer that, sir. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0144par0579	Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0148par0583	Sir, I've been promised an evaluation of more explanations than teasing. Of course, Mr. Engin is always kind and elegant. I've tried to understand your words here again when you've been spoken to with a bit of anger. That's what my explanation is about. There are some very important points to attend to when we go out with the anger part, and there are certain issues to object to. While we're trying to cover up a past drama, cover up the wounds, we shouldn't be starting new wounds in society's future by talking about that drama now. To be careful at this point, for one thing, everyone's neck is in debt. First of all, everyone's neck is in debt.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0149par0585	Tell that to the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0150par0586	Tell that to Mr. Davutoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0148par0587	Secondly, in relation to such historical events, of course historians will do their job, do it; they write, draw, speak. Politics also has a duty here. It is important that the political authority on society's past wounds and the will play a healing role in trying to build the future of society. If we have these kind of scars in our past, it's today that we all have to rule over a political language that heals these wounds, if we're talking about a society and a resurrection in the future. It's really important. That's basically what the AK PARTY is doing. I hope this attitude is supported by other policies. Thank you very much. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0151par0590	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0152par0594	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have promised to clarify the words of Mr. Engin Altay Sir. While I, of course, shared this issue with you, I wished that both the General Assembly had been brought up in order to include the information of this matter, and that it was actually part of my speech at the Republican People's Party -- I wanted to give wise friends an opportunity to explain to them about the history of the Turkish nation. The statement of Mr. Sezgin is in the name of the person. He said it was wrong. I accept that explanation. I take this statement, especially Mr. Sezgin Godkulu's explanation, as an explanation that has come to a point in my mind. However, the nationalist movement party's stance on the class riot is very clear. It's been clear for forty-six years. So you won't find the slightest explanation in the history of the National Movement Party that would disrupt this stance. Besides, let's leave history to the historians. I agree. History should be left to historians. But why don't Mr. Sezgin Tanrıkulu, especially Davutoglu, leave it to the historians to heat it up and bring it to the front of the Turkish nation? And I want to put a question mark on it. Sir, this rebellion is not just about the Republican People's Party, it's about all parties. It also concerns the Nationalist Movement Party because it has upset us, like any citizen of the Republic of Turkey, with common sense, common sense, in love with his country. Now, especially from Mr. Davutoglu's analogy to Kerbela, it means that Seyit Rýzaşa-Hazreti Hussein, our President -- during that period -- Ataturk Yezid (hashaşa) -- were soldiers of Yezid. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Such an announcement is shameful in the name of Turkish history. If anyone should be apologized to, they should apologize to the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0153par0602	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0154par0603	What kind of logic is that? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0152par0604	The apology should be made by those who often bring that statement to the agenda of the Republic of Turkey, especially Davutoglu. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0155par0607	You oppose even a metaphor.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0156par0608	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0157par0609	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0156par0610	I'll make one promise at a time. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0158par0612	Mr. President, during Mr. Engin Altay's speech...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0159par0613	Those who burn people in Sivas have no right to say such a thing. Come in.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0156par0614	Wait, I don't understand.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0158par0615	..that's what the massacre of my class had to do with CHP. He teased the HDP as he said. I want to answer.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0160par0616	Yeah, I said it's everybody's business. I said it's a government of the state of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0158par0617	No, you teased me, so...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0161par0618	He'll explain his side of the matter that concerns us, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0162par0619	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0158par0621	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to say that we've heard nothing from all the conversations here. There's no need to put on a show here with these insincere explanations. We've brought a motion to investigate the massacre of my class over and over again. Come, let's all investigate together as Congress, open the way for a historic confrontation, reveal the facts, and let history be reassessed in order to shape our future. In my class, there is no such rebellion, there is no attempt, there is an open massacre, even genocide. What is done in my class is a systemic genocide. From 1932 onwards, all roads and outposts have been made to prepare for a planned genocide by declaring martial law in 1935, with the removal of the housing Act in 1934. According to official figures, 18,000, over 80,000 Kurdish Alevi Classes were slaughtered for their own identity, and this state must face this pain, there is no escape. And when it's time to apologize, it's a great virtue to consider everything else to be a political show, except to raise that apology in an appropriate way. If we're really going to face our painful history, we're saying that we have to face not only in my class, but in all the practices of the will courts, even all the bloody scenarios made from Sheikh Sait. The People's Democratic Party has been trying so far, and I say it's going to be an effort to expose this genocide, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0163par0624	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0164par0625	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0163par0626	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0164par0627	In his speech, Mr. Nevzat said that I did not approve of the speeches of our Vice President Sezgin Godkulu.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0165par0628	It's wrong. You said it, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0164par0629	I didn't say that, I need to fix it, if that's okay.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0166par0630	Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0165par0631	Sir, it's wrong. You said it, didn't you?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0167par0632	Now, he has to stop the crisis.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0168par0633	I know what I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0169par0634	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0168par0637	Thank you. I said, "It's not CHP's job to apologize for my class, it's CHP's; it's the Republic of Turkey's state's will if it has to be apologized. Please, let my words be understood this way. Our General Vice President is speaking incorrectly. I didn't say that, but let me underline that. We have a saying, and you have a saying. A madman threw a stone into a well and could not bring it out. Let's not get into that right now, let's be smart. But if an apology is a virtue -- and in my opinion, virtue -- if only the AKP would come out and apologize for Roboski, I wish he'd come out and apologize for the massacre of the MHP Gardenlievs. [[Noises]] I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit02spe0170par0643	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0170par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 14th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 615 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 8th article is accepted. There are 2 motions on Article 9 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 9th draft of the 615 Sequence of the "Security of Turkey's Health Institutes" and the 9th Amendment to Decisions by Some Law and Law. Article (1). We propose that the phrase "to build a company for this purpose" be removed from the text. Aytücı Fatma Nur Serter Mahmut Tanal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 and the amendment of some Law and Law Acts; 9. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text of the "c" bell. Seyfettin Yilmaz Celal Adan Ali Öz D. Ali Torlak Alim Yalum Emin Çınar Does the Commission agree with my latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0171par0026	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0170par0027	Mr. Chancer, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0172par0029	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation, and I'd like to make a point at the top of my words. In the previous session, the Deputy President of Peoples' Democratic Party Group has made a claim that the state of the Republic of Turkey -- in its own words -- committed genocide in Dersim. His statement is as follows: The state of the Republic of Turkey has committed genocide in Dersim. He has planned and planned for the people of Kurds and Alevi. Mr. President, first of all, you have my word: You cannot allow the state of the Republic of Turkey to be accused of genocide. We can't let such a thing be said here. That promise needs to be taken off the books immediately. The state of the Republic of Turkey is the state of the Turkish nation. No one has the right to accuse the Turkish nation of genocide and no one has the right. You can't let that happen. My second word to the ministers is that your state and your nation, which you boast about representing, are accused of genocide. Then why do you object to the Armenians, Minister? I'm having this conversation with the members of the group, Mr. Group Vice President. How can you let this happen, dear friends? As every congressman, we have to object to that. We cannot allow our nation to be accused of genocide in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Then you're here for no reason, dear friends. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're discussing a very important, very technical law. I'd like to thank my friends for their efforts in drafting this law. Our fellow commissioners also have a very intense contribution and some objections to the opposition. I hope this law is properly prepared, and its shortcomings are complete. Indeed, as you have pointed out, the establishment of the national cancer institute on a very important issue of the country's 32 per cent increase year-on-year issues, on one condition and on other issues, is very good, very necessary, the establishment of Turkey's health institute on women, mother, children's health, birth and women's aging issues, the taking measures related to chronic diseases, the completion of medicine, alternative medicine, and the establishment of the Turkish health institute on all these issues, and the establishment of the university of Turkish health sciences is very good, very necessary. I hope the law is prepared, the law is well prepared, it is a law that completes the shortcomings. It's our country's greatest common denominator of human health and health care without the necessity to return from the Constitutional Court, to establish a complementary set of laws. I hope there's a proper law in these matters. But I'm judging one thing, Mr. Group Vice Presidents, as a former Deputy Director of the Group, we're struggling with an inappropriate procedure that we've never been able to get through. Dear friends, that's not gonna happen. See, this law is about the establishment of the chairmanship of the Turkish Institute for Health. We're adding to the amendments to certain laws and laws. Every law we bring here has turned into a bag of law. Now, we're bringing in a health-related law, and we're putting in some very important issues about national education, but you're not getting an opinion from the National Board of Education. It's a very technical issue, and you're even making arrangements for the agency's laws, and you're not getting an opinion from the Plan and Budget Commission. Dear friends, if we're building law, law shouldn't be corrupt, we should make law in accordance with universal law. It's like a child's steel ball game. I'm afraid we're following the pattern here. So when we were making a law on something this important, it was as if we were in a hurry to change the law in a grab and other laws, we turned it into a basis here. It doesn't suit us, it's not true. This law, I hope, has been prepared correctly, is prepared, and will provide the necessary establishment for a human health-related matter. But I repeat: it is no one's right to accuse the Turkish nation of genocide, and we propose that this statement be removed from the transcripts and that the talks continue after that. Thank you, and I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0173par0042	Thank you, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0174par0043	Mr. President, Mr. President, our Deputy Group President, Mr. Idris Baluken, has a meeting upstairs. Therefore, I would like to first express that we do not agree with Mr. Shandir's views, and I think a decision should be made regarding the coming of the speaker.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0172par0044	Take a break, then. To continue this matter without a solution...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0174par0045	We need a break...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0175par0046	I mean, I think you're out of your depth when you say that...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0172par0047	Sir, the statement has been filed.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0174par0048	Mr. President, you now state an opinion or something after Mr. Shandir, which is not true. Mr. Idris Baluken gave his speech and left. No one said anything because he revealed the truth, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0176par0049	We couldn't say it because it was closed. I wanted a promise.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0177par0050	Now, because it's closed, I can't fully perceive it in that crowd, to be honest, it's in the middle of the argument. Now, we're going to review the transcripts and we're going to read them. I don't think Mr. Baluken meant it either.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0178par0052	Sir, the statement is as follows...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0179par0053	So now there's a genocide, Mr. President, from this genocide...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0178par0054	The Republic of Turkey has committed genocide.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0179par0055	Yes, Mr. Shandir, there is a genocide that is true.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0178par0056	The State of the Republic of Turkey did not commit genocide.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0179par0057	That's what you think, that's another thing.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0178par0058	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0180par0059	Yes, now, yes, sir. Now, Mr. Bostanci has entered the system, so let's make him a promise.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0181par0061	But we need Mr. Baluken to come, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0180par0062	Yes, of course he needs to fix it and clarify what he means. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0182par0066	Mr. President, thank you very much. In fact, I didn't hear this word of genocide either, even though I listened carefully. We may not hear it, we'll ask for the records, we'll look at it, and there'll be a renegotiation in that frame. As you know, the issue of genocide has come forward as a legal concept, not just a political concept, but a concept with legal housing. However, as soon as this concept of genocide was revealed, political struggles became a popular concept, they began to be used on the ground. We need to talk about a very high degree of sensitivity to concepts that can also be used in terms of this kind of demagogy, which is used in political nature and cannot be legally confirmed. However, I can tell you about the subject of my class: according to official figures, it's under 11,000, it's about 10,850 or so, and unofficially, there's a lot of different numbers being mentioned. But there is no way that Mr. Idris could have reached the numbers he described, because all the people who live there do not have that number. I don't mean to start a class debate, but we do know how statistics and numbers can be used competitively in these political struggles. It's not about the number. In the face of the unjust murder of even one person, it is right that we should be insuffering and demanding justice, and it is right and proper. So, instead of going down on numbers, if there are some wrong practices about the past, it's more appropriate to get inside an attitude towards the design of these things. I would like to make it clear that the state of the Republic of Turkey -- including the class -- has not committed any genocide in the past. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0183par0072	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0184par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, clearly, he's heavily accused of genocide; you'll see when you read it, sir. We can't possibly accept that. If that's the way it's going to be accepted, this House must not continue today. And we'll be right behind him until the end of it. Second, everyone has to know what they're saying. Those who stand on the assembly stand and say that 80,000 people were killed should also know that at that time Dersim (School) and all of Tunceli (the wider part of today's Tunceli) had 65 thousand people. After that, in 1935, Ataturk, especially in the opening speech of the House, said, I mean, if you call it genocide, if you do it with the intention of destroying a mass, an ethnic, religious mass... There is an uprising, the martyrdom of 33 soldiers, the soldiers killed after the raids on the 9th mobile police station, the heavy machine guns from Syria, the Hoybun Society. Therefore, there is no place to speak out of ignorance. However, the group that opposes the group here has neither been opposed because they are Alevi, nor because they are Kurds, because there are both Turks and Kurds and Alevi among the six tribes that have joined. Therefore, there is no mass that could be such a target, it was made because they rose up. See, what Ataturk said in 1935: it is also necessary to re-establish two general districts, and to re-establish some provinces. Meanwhile, the practice of a major reform program has been considered in the area of Dersim, because it has been a boil since 1865, since the Ottoman era. I am fortunate to say in your presence that there is no room to think and no place to stop our nation from reaching the high level of civilization and prosperity that our nation deserves. The results of our actions in Tucson are the near expression of this truth. The sari of advanced government is that he can truly convince the people of his compassion as well as his power. In all the great, small republican officers, it is wise to give attention to the greatest extent of this mentality. How do they think that those with such understanding will kill people all over the place?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0185par0080	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0186par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. What happened in my class is a great pain for this geography, a tear, a memory that has not been erased, and it is understood that it will not be erased after that. In the face of what happened there, as I just quoted Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, as I just said on the stand, when the state comes, of course, it uses its authority, but it's more appropriate for the state to have compassion, that's the way it should be. There was very high-proportionate force, but it is not right to call it genocide as the Republican People's Party, and it is not acceptable to us. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0187par0086	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Baluken, you...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0188par0088	We don't know about arguments, but if we take a break...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0187par0089	Yeah, I'm a...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0188par0090	I don't know what an argument is.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit03spe0187par0091	Yeah, I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0187par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 14th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 615 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. On Article 9 of the bill, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır and his friends voted on the motion. Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, Mr. Baluken, if you'd like to take your place... if you'd like to enter the system or turn on the system... Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0189par0013	Mr. President, I just made a speech from the bench about the massacre in Dersim, and by some other MPs and members of the group, it was reflected in a different way to both General Kurula and all the people of Turkey, and it was stated that I used sentences of the state of Turkey and the Turkish nation to commit genocide. The transcripts are in front of me. Such an accusation is out of the question. First of all, let me remind the General Assembly that we are citizens of the Republic of Turkey and we are members of the people of Turkey, so we will never have to address a number of statements that are being accused of insulting or insulting our own people or our own country. I'd like to express here in particular that I have a sharp criticism of the implementation of the government of the period, and I have stated that the state of the Republic of Turkey must face these practices of the government of the period, with this confrontation, a new democratic future may be possible. In the same way, members of the political party group's leadership have expressed their own political parties or personal views, which do not agree with my view. Thus, there is a different definition of the implementation of the government of a period. I killed tens of thousands of people at that time by poisoning them like rats in caves. I'd like this to be presented to the General Assembly's information. I want to say that that's the way the people of Turkey should view it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0190par0018	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0191par0020	Mr. President, the conversation that led to this explanation is mine.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0190par0021	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0191par0022	Mr. Baluken, I've got the prisoner -- he says there's no such rebellion, there's no attempt in my class; there's an open massacre. It's even genocide. What happens in Dersim is a systemic genocide. From 1932 on all sides of Dersim were prepared for a planned genocide by declaring martial law in 1935, with the adoption of the Housing Act in 1934, with the establishment of police stations. So this is the testimony that the state of the Republic of Turkey committed the alleged genocide that day.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0192par0024	The government, the government...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0193par0025	We discussed it in the back, Mr. Shandir, so it's not right to do it this way now.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0191par0026	And this state is the state of this Turkish nation, and as a very unfortunate statement, it has dealt with this genocide in Kurds and Alevi. We talked; it's wrong, we need to pull back. I demand that these be taken off the record.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0194par0028	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Mr. Baluken expressed his views, said he didn't mean it.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0191par0030	But if you don't get this word genocide out of here, it will remain in these reports.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0194par0031	You know, there's no such thing as taking it off the books. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 9th Amendment to the Constitutional Amendment to the Constitutional Laws under some Laws and Laws under the Establishment of the President of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 is currently in session. Article (1). We propose that the phrase "to build a company for this purpose" be removed from the text. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0195par0042	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0196par0043	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0194par0044	I'm reading the reason: There is no need to establish a company for the designated goals of TSEB. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 9th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 10 that I make read: To the presidency of TBM, 10 of the 615 Numbered Legislature. Article (1). We offer and offer to change the terms of the joke to..... and........ Ali Oz D. Ali Torlak Ali Longırmak Lütfü Türkkan S. Nevzat Don't Fear Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 10 of Turkey's Law Charter on the Constitutional Amendments to the Constitutional Court of Justice and the Constitution of the Constitution of Turkey and the Constitution of the Constitution and the Constitution of Turkey. We propose to add the statement to the board of directors, after the statement stated in Article (2) of the article. Aytücı Kadir Gökmen Öğitma Fatma Nur Serter Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0197par0065	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0198par0066	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0194par0067	I'm reading the reason: The Secretary General must also be responsible for the Governing Body. I submit to your votes this motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 10 of the 615 Numbered Legislature. Article (1). We offer and offer to change the terms of the joke to..... and........ Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0199par0078	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0194par0079	Mr. Torlak, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0200par0081	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on behalf of the National Movement Party on Article 10 of the current bill. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the health sector is an industry that includes both the most important institutions of our country and often comes to the country's agenda with various issues, problems and regulations. These problems include health workers, as they can be associated with patient and patient relatives. As it is known, hospitals are first understood in public when it comes to health care. The most important problem in hospitals is that health workers are subjected to violence by their health and relatives. It is inevitable that hospitals are as sterile as possible by working and sick relatives. Generally, hospital employees, even though they care about the sterile environment, must be protected against diseases that are at risk of infecting them. Dear lawmakers, health workers have been left alone by the government to deal with their problems for years. Health workers have been forced to work in an environment of chaos by struggling with problems instead of peace and prosperity. Clearly, this is one of the main causes of exhaustion in health workers. In order to serve our citizens better, health workers must be given a job guarantee for qualified health care, a supporting permit and reward system must be put into effect. Likewise, as there is no solution to the problems of employees, health workers have been forced to work in an environment of chaos rather than peace and prosperity. This is another reason for the exhaustion of health workers. It is also necessary to assess the rights of the union, including collective agreements and the right to strike, which will guarantee their social and economic rights democratically. The provision of a healthy and safe working environment free of all kinds of violence is one of the most important expectations of health workers. These demands are the most natural rights of health personnel, given basic human rights, and must be resolved immediately. In addition, payment differences in the performance system continue with the same sense of income, especially for non-medical health workers. This affects business peace among health workers and disrupts their motivation. It is important to address this injustice regarding return capital additional payments. Deputy, 4/C, by ending different forms of employment, such as the family health worker, the only solution must be applied to the Single Staff and the employees must be assigned to the permanent staff. It is imperative that the appointment be made according to merit and driver's license, and the staff with a master's degree in the field should be allowed to open their professional staff to non-medicine staff. It is important that the change of neutral title and the examinations of promotions regularly end the injustice of health workers. Health workers' lives are in constant danger due to extreme violence in many hospitals. The security measures taken in hospitals are insufficient. In this regard, the Ministry of Health must take permanent measures. On the other hand, over-discriminate health care workers are in charge of each of the institutions. He thinks we need to realize that patients' rights are not protected without protecting the health workers' rights, and that this bill is being discussed, and I wish our country and our nation all the blessings.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0201par0090	Thank you, Mr. Torlak. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 10 has been accepted. There are two motions on Article 11 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 11 of the 615 Numbered Bill of Laws. Article (3). We propose and supply to change the phrase of the joke to be established. Scholar Light Seyfettin Yilmaz Mustafa Erdem You did, Lightning S. Nevzat Korkmaz Ali Öz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1 1 of Turkey's Laws Charter for Making Changes in Decisions Under Some Laws and Laws under the Establishment of the Chair of Health Institutes of Turkey No. 615 Other than the institutions mentioned in the article (2) in the first joke, we propose to add the proposal and the declaration of the High Advice Council to come after the declaration. Light Horseman Nurettin Demir Mahmut Tanal Kadir Gökmen Öğemma Fatma Nur Serker Binnaz Earth Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0202par0109	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0201par0110	Here you go, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0203par0111	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the establishment of the chair of the Turkish Health Institutes No. 615, and on the 11th Article of the Dair Legislature to make amendments to certain Laws and Legislatures. First of all, I salute the Supreme Court. Dear lawmakers, indeed, today is an important law for the Ministry of Health and the health department. Of course, it was important that the university was withdrawn, especially when it came to it. Because in the sense of protecting the integrity of the university, I really think that the current situation in Turkey is a mutual decision to sustain university integrity, and I think it was a success with the opposition of parliament and its power. Also, the law on the appointment of national branch managers would have been a serious legal error, and it was a very high risk of breaking the working peace, and I think it would be very helpful for him to withdraw. I'm afraid our citizens are crawling through hospital doors. Every day, I receive emails, text messages, phone calls, highlighting how our citizens' health care system collapsed. I just got a call from a patient today asking me to help him with his sick mother. He says no hospital ever took them because they thought the heavy patients were expensive. ▪ We were left in the middle of the hospital doors. Please help us. They cry out for help. Solving a citizen's problems, taking care of a citizen is one of the main tasks of the state. But it turns out that heavy patients can't be treated in private hospitals or public hospitals just because they're seen as cost-effective. Mr. Secretary, as a physician, I ask you, can human health be a cost factor? It's sad, but it's true. If you don't have money, die. I'd like to condemn those who run the healthcare system with their mental attitude. The government says that the municipality can go to any hospital. What are the conditions of those hospitals? Medical schools receive about 4 billion dollars a year, while private hospitals receive $8 billion. The faculty is finished financially and spiritually. Again, in the oncology department of a medical school hospital from Istanbul's famous hospitals, patients apply some medicines to each other at night because of the absence of nurses, helping another patient from the anal region who they don't know, sleeping on the bench with their serum. Of course, I know how hard that hospital works here. College hospitals, nurses, assistants, they're really in a tough spot for the staff. Therefore, my care for private hospitals must also be shown to public hospitals. Thus, the number of private hospitals, which were 271 in 2002 when the AKP came to power, was 542 in 2013, which increased by more than 100 per cent. So no attention to private hospitals, no care, no discrimination, no public hospitals or university hospitals, unfortunately. Therefore, the total share of private hospitals within hospitals was 7.5 per cent in 2002, while it was 18.7 per cent in 2014. This painting is just an indication of how health care is privatized. Private hospitals don't actually deal with severe patients, and citizens are forced to go to college hospitals where they're miserable, where they're left with patients who can't be treated. That's where health comes in 2014, I'm afraid. I especially wish the government would be more careful and more generous in terms of the recovery of university hospitals, both in terms of staff and in terms of them, and I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0204par0120	Thank you, Mr. Iron. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1 1 of Turkey's Laws Charter for Making Changes in Decisions Under Some Laws and Laws under the Establishment of the Chair of Health Institutes of Turkey No. 615 Other than the institutions mentioned in the article (2) in the first joke, we propose to add the proposal and the declaration of the High Advice Council to come after the declaration. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0205par0129	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0206par0130	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0204par0131	I'm reading the reason: The responsibility for the establishment of the new institute should not only be left to the Minister's political will. The opinion of the council, which constitutes the High Advice Council and is closest to reflecting its opinion from almost every part of Turkey, will be more objective and scientific. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0207par0136	Mr. President, we had a motion.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0208par0137	It must have been misread, we spoke in our motion. Sir, I believe the motion for the MPP...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0207par0138	There must be some mistake.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0209par0139	I think there's been a mistake, isn't there? I'm so sorry.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0208par0140	I thought it was the 12th. Sir, Nurettin Demir spoke in our motion in Article 11.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0209par0141	There's been a repeated reading, and we're very sorry.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0208par0142	We'll talk about something else, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0209par0143	Yeah, we're gonna start over again.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0210par0144	Mr. President, we can talk about something else, over.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0209par0145	Okay?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0211par0146	Sir, it's okay.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0212par0147	We're taking our conversation back, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0209par0148	Okay, all right, that's it. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the 16th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the Constitutional Court of Human Rights, the Constitution shall be held in accordance with Article 615 of the Constitutional Court of Justice and the Council of Ministers. Article (1). We propose that the companies and the declarations of the joke be taken out. Aytücı Kadir Gökmen Öğitma Fatma Nur Serter Mahmut Tanal Binnaz İz Hasan Ören Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the removal of Article 16 of the current 615 Numbered Bill of Law. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Kemal Aktaş Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0213par0170	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0214par0171	Let's get him to read the motive.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0209par0172	I'm reading the reason: This bill aims to create a new bureaucratic caste and monopoly in the field of health. The health, health education and medical interventions in this bill are more categorical than solving existing problems. Therefore, we demand and demand the removal of the relevant substance. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the Constitutional Court of Human Rights, the Constitution shall be held in accordance with Article 615 of the Constitutional Court of Justice and the Council of Ministers. Article (1). We propose that the companies and the declaration be taken out of context. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0215par0183	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0216par0184	Motive.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0209par0185	I'm reading the reason: The company's construction and the targeting of revenues is one of the first. It is against the purpose of serving the country and mankind in the field of health science and technology, which is between goals. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 16th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 17th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 Article (1). Because of the income he obtained under Article 16 from activities related to his duties in his joke, there is no economic business in terms of institutional tax. We propose that the sentence be removed from the text. Aytuğ Atcı Kadir Gökmen Öğüt Fatma Nur Serter İstanbul İstanbul Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the removal of Article 17 of the current 615 Numbers Bill. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Kemal Aktaş Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0217par0206	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0218par0207	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0209par0208	I'm having it read. This bill aims to create a new bureaucratic caste and monopoly in the field of health. The health, health education and medical interventions in this bill are more categorical than solving existing problems. Therefore, we demand and demand the removal of the relevant substance. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Congressmans, if you agree, please, let me be clear, so I can perceive, or I don't understand. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 Article (1). Because of the income he obtained under Article 16 from activities related to his duties in his joke, there is no economic business in terms of institutional tax. We propose that the sentence be removed from the text. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0219par0220	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0220par0221	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0209par0222	I'm having it read. The purpose of companies is to profit. It's unacceptable for a profiting company not to pay corporate taxes. TUSEB shouldn't trade, and if it does, it must pay taxes, like any other commercial corporation. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 18 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the removal of Article 18 of the current 615 Numbers Bill. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Kemal Aktaş Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0221par0237	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0222par0238	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0209par0239	I'm reading the reason: This bill aims to create a new bureaucratic caste and monopoly in the field of health. Health management in this bill, health education and government intervention in medicine are more categorical than solving existing problems. Therefore, we demand and demand the removal of the relevant substance. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 18th article is accepted. There are two motions on the 19th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 and the 19th draft law on the amendments to the provisions of some Law and Law. We propose that the clause be removed from the text and that the matter be sorted accordingly. Aytuğ Atı Süleyman Çelebi Mahmut Tanal Kadir Gökmen Öğüm Fatma Nur Serter Binnaz Earth Free Nurettin Demir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the removal of Article 19 of the current 615 Numbers Bill. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Kemal Aktaş Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0223par0260	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0224par0261	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0209par0262	I'm reading the reason: This bill aims to create a new bureaucratic caste and monopoly in the field of health. The health management of this bill, health education and government intervention in medicine are more categorical than solving existing problems. Therefore, we demand and demand the removal of the relevant substance. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 and the 19th draft law on the amendments to the provisions of some Law and Law. We propose that the clause be removed from the text and that the matter be sorted accordingly. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0225par0273	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0209par0274	Mr. Horseman, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0226par0276	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we're trying to explain to you what we consider to be very important in the Constitutional Charter for the Establishment of Turkey's Health Institutes 615 rows, and we will continue to do so. So is the 19th article. At the same time, this is actually the last item of TUSEB. With this clause, TUSEB will be established and will begin to serve our country. However, since there's a work force at stake here, I have to tell you our opposition here. Here, it says in the article that the head of this institute, sir, can demand all the information he sees necessary for matters of RD, from all higher education institutions, including those belonging to public institutions and foundations. And he says: "Everyone has to give it when asked for this information." Now, friends, people from the academy know that it's really hard to create information, to create an idea. Sometimes we work for years, we get one sentence, years of work. Sometimes we work for years, we can only change one word. Sometimes we can't even do that. Now, when a man who has dedicated his life in any field has obtained information, you will give it to me. If he does not order or give it to me, he will commit legal crime. With the work we've done in the commission, thanks to our friends' acceptance, we've added the declaration of discretion, but that's not enough. At that time, no scientist, including myself, would open the law as we are today and look at it from the point of view. If we get an article from TUSEB, sir, you're asked to do so, and so on. When he says, we'll give it to him. What should we do? We say, we give, and the knowledge we have received for a lifetime falls into the hands of TUSEB. Oh, is this TUSEB an enemy organization? Of course not. Of course not, but why would I give information that I obtained at Mersin University or information that my teachers obtained at Istanbul University to TUSEB? Because he's going to use that information himself, and he's going to announce my country's name in the international arena. But TÜSEB wants the information. When he says, "No, I can't give that information." He doesn't say. When he shares that information, when it's published in international magazines, the whole world will use it anyway. So there's no such thing as withholding information. But if you get that information that way here, it would be a waste of the work of the people who produced it. But the habit of getting information and selling information has, unfortunately, been through the roof during the AKP administrations. Unfortunately, the Minister of Labour and Social Security went on national television and sold all health information of 72 million people for 72 million liras. I gave it to him cheap, and I'll sell it even more. Next time, he said, "I'm going to sell it." But then the Constitution called it off, and he didn't think it was right. Look, it's nice to share information, but we live in the age of knowledge, but as long as you don't rule out the protection of personal information, all of this information can be used and exploited in smuggling. Recently, imports from abroad have been leaked to a company that has been used by whom, recently, at your time. Since there is no law of protecting personal information, don't do it to this man again. You'll be content to say, "Don't do it again." But this guy took people's addresses, their phones, and now he's calling them, and he says, "I brought your medicine for a dollar cheaper, so come get it from me." Now, in an environment where we don't have so much information, we have concerns that this information will be stored properly and used accordingly. Let's fix this and say, if the manufacturer of that information has consent, let's give it to him. If he's willing, we have no objection. But if he doesn't consent, it's called extortion, and it's not true. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0227par0284	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 19th article is accepted. There is a motion on Article 20...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0228par0288	We're withdrawing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0227par0289	The motion has been withdrawn. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 21 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The last sentence of the interim Article 1219, which is envisioned to be added to Article 21 and Article 1219 of Law Bill 615, which is currently in session, "In this way, those who receive expert documents will be subject to the obligation of state service." We offer and offer to change it into form. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Ilyas Şeker Haci Bayram TürkoğluYaveli Hatay Does the commission agree with the motion? We'll leave it up to appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0229par0300	We agree.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0230par0301	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0227par0302	I'm reading the reason: Reason: The bill stipulates that those who receive expert documents according to the clause will do "existent service," but is referred to as "the obligation of state service under the Basic Law of Health Services 3359." However, "necessary service" in the bill differs from the obligation of state service. Thus, a technical correction is made to prevent different interpretations and applications. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit the 21st Article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 22 that I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework Article 22 of Law Bill 615 be changed in the following manner. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Ilyas Şeker Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Oya Eronat MADDE 22-4/1/1961 and the following sentence were added to the end of the third sentence after the first sentence of the 5th Article of the Law, which will be given to Health Institutions No. 209 and Esensation (Rehabition) Facility. "In addition payments made by the Ministry of Health in exchange for special medical procedures determined by the Ministry of Finance, the rates 800 per cent and 700 per cent are applied by onefold." "The Turkish Public Hospital Association is also authorized to calculate the rates predicted in this joke in public hospital units, but even so, the 50 per cent rate cannot exceed 60 per cent of each health facility on the basis." Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0231par0319	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0232par0320	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0227par0321	I'm reading the reason: In particular, there are few qualified physicians operating within the Ministry of Public Hospitals of Turkey, who can perform procedures that require higher education, research, experience and skill, such as transplants, major replantations, qualified intensive care services, stem cell and bone marrow transplants. The procedures are also very high risk for the physician. Thus, the few physicians are transferred to foundation universities and private hospitals, which offer more attractive opportunities. Because of this high risk and intense work, it is intended to encourage physicians to perform these procedures and to present them to our citizens in public hospitals. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 23 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework Article 23 of Law Bill 615 be changed in the following manner. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mine Lök White Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Osman Coffeeci Shirin Ünal The second joke of the Law on the 21st Article of the Law, dated 23-8/4/1929 and to be sent to the Ecnepi Lands of 1416, has been changed in the following way; its third joke added that "all the periods of time" will come after its declaration, " not to exceed its maximum education abroad established by the ministry." 'Those who return to the home to meet mandatory service obligations are appointed to the National Education Experts on behalf of the Ministry of Education and on behalf of the Ministry of Education and on the basis of this Law, after completing their doctoral studies in the country they were sent abroad.' " Does the commission agree with the motion? We'll leave it up to appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0233par0340	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0234par0341	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0227par0342	I'm reading the reason: The proposal aims to appoint students who have returned to the country after finishing their doctoral studies on behalf of the Ministry and on account of those sent abroad in the areas set by our Ministry of National Education in accordance with their own needs, and who have been sent abroad in previous years on behalf of the public institution and its institutions. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 23rd article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 24th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 615 is the 24th edition of the Numbered Bill. We'd like to submit and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal of the law. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Kemal Aktaş Hasip Kaplan Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0235par0357	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0236par0358	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0227par0359	I'm reading the reason: There are hundreds of thousands that can't be appointed. What is happening today is the result of the AKP's lack of a comprehensive teaching policy. The AKP's power is making the criteria for teaching more difficult every day, where it will solve this problem. At the coming point, he's trying to legally violate the principles of integrity, neutrality, objectiveness, and leave teaching assignments to the initiative of his own bureaucrats. The idea here is to open up a wide range of its own ideological and political staffing, and in the long run, to make the covert political influence on students more dominant. This clause is run on the basis of the government's policy that each ministry can appoint its own staff. This motion aims to block political and ideological pressure from the administration, which will increase further on non-assigned teachers and candidate teachers. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 25 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework 25th Amendment to the current 615 rows be changed in the form of the network. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Ilyas Şeker Oya Eronat "MEDDE was the first joke (t) of Article 2547 of Article 2547, dated 25/11/1981, which was replaced in the following way, and I added this sub-bent. 't) The Master's degree and Ph.D. include expertise in medicine, dentistry, medicine, and veterinary medicine and competence in art, and it is divided into the following levels.' "5) Expertism in Veterinary Medicine: a higher education organised by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting and intended to provide veterinary physicians with special skills and authority in specific areas." Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0237par0377	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0227par0378	I'm reading the reason: The bill also includes veterinary expertise in medicine, adding "specialty in veterinary medicine" to the first joke (t) of Article 3 of the Law 2547. However, with new regulations, it would be appropriate to add them to the material, since it is also envisioned in dental medicine and medicine. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the 25th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 26: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and add to the sentence added to Article 35 of Law 2547 with the framework 26th article of the 615 rows of the proposed Bill of Law, which is added to the third sentence of Article 35 of the Law (exclusion of this mandatory service) to come after the declaration of this obligatory service, exclusion of the spouse's condition and health. Aytuğ Atı Ali Öz Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ali Ercoshkun Osman love Look Osman Boyraz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 and the amendment of some Law and Law Acts; 26th Amendments. Article 2. We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of the letter after the declaration of this mandatory service, except under the conditions of the transfer and appointment of government officers No.657. Zühal Topcu Lütfu Türkkan Ali Öz Mehmet Şandir Alim Ik D. Ali Torlak S. Nevzat Don't Fear Emin Çınar Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0238par0403	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0227par0404	Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0239par0406	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 26 of the underlying Law Bill 615. On this occasion, I salute you all. First, I'd like to thank the Minister for his sensitivity to making the necessary corrections, taking into account the right criticism from opposition parties in the phase of this bill's General Assembly and Commission talks. In particular, there were two fundamental issues that we disagreed with during the General Assembly phase. First, it is against both the Constitution and the law to establish a new university under the roof of the Ministry. So we said that this had to be removed from this draft text. A joint agreement has been reached that it will now be removed. Second, there was a new arrangement within the Ministry of National Education regarding branch managers and managers at such a level, which would disregard the judicial decision by rescinding the appointments that were cancelled by the judicial decision, with a resolving the legislation. We said that shouldn't happen either. Given our sensitivity to that subject, there was a common will to remove that substance again. So I wanted to thank the government for its positive contribution and for taking these suggestions into consideration because of the fact that these two major problems have been met. In this particular motion, we have proposed an arrangement to keep out those who are responsible for their mandatory service, such as the Law on State Officers Transfers and Assignations No. 657, such as the spouse's condition and health and so on, in any way. I hope he'll agree to that, too, dear members of the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, I would like to say that I need to return the demands on behalf of my fellow citizens, especially the fact that some basic medical shortcomings of the scholar Kütahya, who has not received a share of the health care services, have not been restored so far. One of them, as it's known, is that our province, Kütahya, is the first one today without a state hospital, a few more provinces have been added, and it hasn't been met for years. Despite the construction of a 500-bed state hospital in the Health Ministry's 2011-13 investment programme, unfortunately, a change of venue came up in 2011, and so far this hospital remains as it exited the old program, which is now unknown whether or not it will be done. I'm reassigning the request for this to be done immediately. Mr. Secretary knows in detail because he has a say in this matter. Secondly, the move to the hospital came on due to the 2011 Simav earthquake. Now that the hospital has been promised to take place in the new situation, the ministers before the local elections said if you wish to return to your hospital, which will be based on the visit to that district on April 1st, vote for us. But no hospital has been made today. Third, the 520-bed physical treatment and rehabilitation hospital, which was built within the Central Campus of Dumlupınar University in 2010, could not be opened until today. Serious allegations have been made public. Once again, I'm conveying our request for the opening of these vacant buildings. Finally, the construction of Gediz State Hospital has been launched, but the contractors have left and fled. The purchases made from the Gediz trades were not even paid for. I have a large number of citizens who are very victimized. The outcome of this hospital has not been announced by the responsible so far. Mr. Secretary, if you'll be so sensitive about this, I'll thank you on behalf of my fellow citizens. I wish the law well again, and good evening.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0240par0418	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and add to the sentence added to Article 35 of Law 2547 with the framework 26th article of the 615 rows of the proposed Bill of Law, which is added to the third sentence of Article 35 of the Law (exclusion of this mandatory service) to come after the declaration of this obligatory service, exclusion of the spouse's condition and health. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0241par0427	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0240par0428	I'm reading the reason: In the case of spouses and health care, mandatory services are intended to be able to be carried out at other educational institutions and public institutions. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 27th article, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the Constitutional Court of Human Rights, the Constitution shall be held in accordance with Articles 615 of the Constitution and the Constitution shall be held in accordance with Article 27 of Turkey's Constitution. We propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text and that the matter be sorted accordingly. Aytücı Kadir Gökmen Öğitma Fatma Nur Serter Binnaz Earth Hülya Trust Mehmet Hilal Kaplan İstanbul İzmirYepeli Özgür Special Nurettin Demir Çelebi Manisa Muğla İstanbul Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0242par0443	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0240par0444	Mr. Iron, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0243par0446	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on the establishment of the chairmanship of the Turkish Health Institutes 615 and on the 27th Amendment to the Constitution of the Law and Law. First of all, I salute the Supreme Court. Dear lawmakers, it's a matter of permission for professors to be sent to foundation universities for two years. Of course, it's important for our patients and students there to benefit from solidarity among institutions, but of course, we're sensing, of course, that there's a desire to benefit more from the universities of the subsidies of the general educational institutions in all Turkey, rather than to strengthen them. If this was done with the intention of strengthening the foundation hospitals, we have nothing to say about it, and we have nothing to say about it. Foundation hospitals, foundation universities also have, of course, assistant shortages, assistant issues, and we see that these staffs in particular are not supported. However, there should be criteria for determining the number of assistants in Turkey, so there is a situation that has been left to the Ministry's enjoyment. When we look across Turkey -- there were some places, once before, there were assistants per bed, but now there are no such rules -- I'd like to say that usually there is more control of pleasure, or that this favor is being given to those who are closer to the Ministry. I just mentioned something about oncology patients. In Turkey, really, Mr. Minister, the oncology patients are in very bad shape. Especially since oncology is focused in major cities, patients who come for chemotherapy or radiotherapy need to stay longer, they either have to stay in hotels or stay in hostels because they can't find a bed. These patients, who are already in a difficult economic state, are unfortunately not well enough to feed and can't be looked at. In particular, I think the ministry should be more careful about providing additional services to them in terms of a hotel service. Health workers in educational research hospitals also have serious problems. From health practices, assistants, specialists, leaders, professors, professors, educators who work in educational research hospitals have been damaged by changing measures. They demand changes in their rights, right to education violations and working conditions. Assistants have very long hours and a lot of seizures. In addition, educators and heads of staff work under the same conditions as academics who are both in the clinic and in the training of clinics and assistants. Turkey has 563 people with no academic careers. There are also a number of leaders close to it. The additional indicator, which is 3600 in the education staff and prime ministers, needs to be upgraded to 5300, which needs to be reflected in retirement. Education and research hospitals must be saved from the state of a service hospital, allowing scientific, medical applications to be researched. If these are achieved, the Ministry will have no effort or effort to establish a university. I believe that Mr. Minister, who boasts about 105 education research hospitals -- much more in these areas, our hospitals will be produced in science and scientific studies will be done. So, I've been the head of an education and research hospital for many years, and as a person who's worked there, they're doing very valuable work. Today at Izmir Tepecik Hospital, they bring in very successful organ transplants, and they do many, many such successful services, such as lung transplantation in the Seven Towers. It's hard not to appreciate them, so I'm here to serve... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...if given up, this college thing won't be necessary. To draw attention to them, I took this promise to draw your attention to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0244par0456	Thank you, Mr. Iron. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 27th article is accepted. Thus, the vote of substances in chapter one is complete. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter includes the interim Articles 66, 67 and 68, and Articles 28 to 51, including Articles 1 of the bill, which are violated by Article 32 (2547), and Articles 66, 67 and 68. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the second chapter Mehmet Hilal Kaplan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0245par0465	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on the basis of the establishment of the chairmanship of the Turkish Health Institutes 615 and the draft of the Law and Law Act on Amendments. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, health is one of the things we need to focus on in terms of the preservation of society's health, in terms of creating a more free and healthier generation for future generations. I'd like to remind you that we've joined the positive aspects of the arrangements that will be made with this institution, which has been asked to be established recently, but while we're on the line, I'd like to share with you the point that some of the issues you've tried to apply under the health change project in your day contradict your practices. Dear lawmakers, several comments have been made regarding the treatment of people injured in the wake of the recent war on the Syrian border in Turkey. Of course, it is important that in an environment where border security is not formed, people injured in our neighbor Syria are brought to Turkey for treatment, and health care is offered to them. In fact, it is also important to ensure that some 1.5 or 2 million people who seek refuge in our country from the civil war in Syria, live in healthy environments, take protective measures for epidemics, instill them, protect their health, and do not pass on infectious diseases to us in the same environment that we live in, and do not pass on to our society. I haven't had an answer yet, especially since I gave the Health Department a question motion a year ago, especially because of the increased measles in our southern provinces. Madam Secretary, there have been several speculations about this. While I've seen you here, I'd like to direct a few questions. When I talk more about health, it's a pity that perhaps it's a coincidence that the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs is here, so I don't get the answer I want. If the Minister listens to me, I want him to answer a few questions. Look, there's a journalist asking Mr. Minister about the events in Syria and the region. The journalist's question is, Mr. Minister... says, is it true that the wounded ISIS militants were sent to Turkey to be treated? The Minister's answer is, I read exactly: we are not at the point of looking at anyone's identity, their religion, their race, their color, their religion. The PKK terrorist pulled a gun on our soldier an hour ago on the mountain, and then when the terrorist arrives wounded, we'll deliver it to the police and courthouse after we've treated him. Our job is not to serve as a law enforcement officer. We have a duty to treat the patient, not who does what, not what, not what. It is essential for our physicians to treat the patient no matter where in the world he has not treated the patient. He says, "Mr. Minister. I'll sign my signature as a physician as well, but I'd like to ask the Minister a question in the same frame. You say the PKK terrorist will be returned to the judicial and police force after treatment. So, after treating the wounded of ISIS terrorists, why don't you hand them over to law enforcement and law enforcement, let them get out of bounds? I wonder if your government still doesn't accept ISIS militants as terrorists. Please, I'd like an enlightening statement to the public. I have a second question, again, according to the information you gave me, Mr. Secretary. If we don't care what people do for the medics, we treat the patient wherever they are. Why did you start a study of physicians and their vocational rooms that treat people who were injured in the Travel Park events? Isn't that a contradiction? As a physician, isn't what I just said to a member of the press that contradicts that? And although I've already submitted a question motion that's past a year of trouble for our colleagues and our room, I still haven't received an answer. Madam Secretary, I'd like to remind you of one thing. We physicians have agreed to assist every patient in an emergency with the most effective, fastest possible help, and we have sworn to it. Even under pressure, we swore we wouldn't use my medical knowledge against humanity's values and laws. We stand by this practice, by our oath. Minister, as I've told you, there are other ministers in many of my conversations, so I'd like to share one more matter with you. As I mentioned in my 1st speech today, we know that those who died of heart and vascular disease are still ahead of the cancer cases in Turkey. There's been some issues in the press and public lately. In Turkey, heart disease has an angio per year for about 250,000 people, and I'm reading official data. There are 120,000 stents during these angios, valued lawmakers. So, what I'm about to tell you is that it directly concerns the lives of 120,000 people. It's said that these public stents are Chinese; they're cheaper, about $400 or $500 cheaper. According to experts, scientists, these Chinese stents are cheap, but what matters is that they pose a danger to human life. What are they? I don't know how many of our 120,000 people who were put in stents after they were put into an angiogram, maybe the Minister or the bureaucrats will shed light on it, but I want to remind you that it's a serious interest in 120,000 people and their relatives. Now, one of the things that I'm concerned about here and the public needs to know is what did you say when we were doing the transformation project in health? You said it was a cheaper, easier, more accessible, and more comfortable health care for everyone. But if this stent event is true, the health policy of your government or ministry corresponds to: The one who has money can be treated with better conditions, better stents; the person without money can be treated with more cheap, more likely stents that could endanger their lives. I don't suppose you all feel that way. If this is true in public, if this information is true, in the agreements with the SGK... please, Minister, I want this matter to be carefully discussed without distinguishing our people, our citizens, in the form of money and not in the form of one. I have a minute and a half. Mr. Lütfü Türkkan mentioned it earlier, and I said in my last speech that he was at a meeting where you were not -- Mr. Minister, it's a busy place in the Bigeli industry. Job accidents happen a lot in the family. Recently, about 20 days ago, a finger of our child was severed, and we could not find a hospital to plant a finger in the Alexandria. I called the university for the microsurgery, called the university myself, and I won't go into details -- I called two private hospitals in Gebze, called research hospitals. Earlier, when we met with the former health minister two years ago, we agreed that the microsurgery unit was the right place to set up here. Sadly, however, that finger was delayed and stood on the other side of Istanbul, paying $7,000 and holding no finger. I explained that in my last conversation here. What I'm sorry about is that I'm not at your ulterior motives. The capital of industry is one of the cities in Turkey that contributes the most to state production, we have a university, we can't get a finger planted. Then I told you, I've already told the Aldermans, it's a shame for all of us. If we can't do a severed finger in a county like this, where business accidents are the busiest, I'd like you to reconsider. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0246par0481	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu will speak. And as a person, he's got a commitment request, so I'm putting them together, and I'm giving him 15 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0247par0485	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on the second part of Law Bill 615, and I salute you all. Yes, the Law presented to parliament by the Justice and Development Party is actually fucked on the road. It shows a separate example of the reflections of a clumsy and incoherent mindset that was rushed by logic. Looking at the clauses within this law, we can see that it concerns many ministries at once. In particular, we know that there are 14 articles that concern the Ministry of National Education. As we look at the articles, we can see that the 23rd, 24th, 25th, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 45, 47, are among the operational and relevant areas of the National Ministry of Education. And we see that almost one third of the law is about education, but we also noticed that this law did not come to the National Education Commission. There's no such thing as a freak. You make certain decisions on the basic institutions of national education, which are only passed by the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission, not the National Education Commission. Now, in my speech last week, I specifically asked, where is this Minister of National Education? What does he do? I wonder if anyone's seen it or heard it. Now I'm asking that question again. So I'm not allowed to ask that here? I'd like to ask you again. Especially the arrangements for their own institutions and staff, the Minister of National Education has no idea, he doesn't even know about it. I mean, you don't care. I guess he really doesn't know about it anymore. Another commission specifically assesses the institutions of the Ministry of National Education. In particular, when we look at events with international indicators that reflect the practices of health policies in Turkey, we can safely say that the painting is not good for health. According to OECD health statistics, Turkey's report card appears to be unsatisfactory. Looking at the number of beds per population, we're at the bottom of the OECD countries. When we compare it with Japan, which is at the top, we see nearly three beds falling from 13 or 4 or 14 beds to a thousand people in Japan. We are also among the OECD countries at the bottom of the list of doctors per capita. In the MRI shoot, we can say that we took the 2nd row from the top. We can safely say that we are the country that raises the least of the nurses. We have almost 2 nurses per thousand, while the OECD averages nine nurses per thousand. When we look at the mortality rates, we can be ranked among the highest countries. According to OECD averages, one of the lowest health spending countries is also our country. In particular, when we are the age-jumping, world economy-directing country, and we are the country described as the new Turkey in quotes, we can easily say that these are not the best for us; in fact, they are all covered up. What is the goal of this bill, which is aimed at the TUSEB (TUSEB), is to be made clear, and it needs to be explained. It's called autonomy, but we know that the board of directors has been appointed by political power, and in fact, it's intended to continue its existence as a secondary autonomous institution. The question that comes to mind is, is someone being assigned a position? After practice, when we look at the other practices of this government, we can see them very easily that when an institution is being committed, when a new institution is being discovered, power is taking steps to ensure its own future in particular. I wonder what lies beneath it. If this institution is set up as a center for scientific study, what good are research centres at universities? There's TUBITAK, especially what does TUBITAK do? What good does it do to gather at the single center? So there are a lot of institutions, and once they're implemented, the real intentions of power will be revealed to this TUSEB. In particular, the following jokes are added to the additional 11th article of the Law, Article 31 (31, 2547) and Article 2547. "The opinion of the Finance Ministry, where it is unable to pay its financial debts while conducting education and education activities, is called the foundation universities, which are determined by objective and measurable criteria set by the Higher Education Board. What are objective criteria based on this power? What are the measurable criteria? We saw objective and measurable criteria in the appointment of managers, we saw objective and measurable criteria in the recruitment of the university, we saw objective and measurable criteria, we saw these criteria in assignments to all state institutions. We've seen it work in the justice system. How will these objective and measurable criteria be recorded? In the event that the financial situation cannot be corrected during the given time, the Board of Higher Education takes the necessary measures and takes corrective, restrictive or restrictive measures when necessary. The bill, in fact, adds new jokes to the material that regulates the closing of foundation universities in the existing law. The ECHR is especially bringing the right to financial control, as well as the audit of education. So, the SEC will oversee the foundation universities both in education and financial terms. Now, when you say "fiscally," it's actually from the press... these days, these two days, there's actually numbers that have been on the press' agenda since last week, especially about the white palace, the gray palace, the runaway palace. And today we have numbers on electricity money, and we're getting them from the press, and we're particularly interested in asking: If financial control is so important, what's the monthly operating cost of that palace? That's what we're asking on behalf of the people. If you're so sensitive to the financial control of a university, you have to account for every step of the way. If financial matters are such a big deal, it should also be considered by universities and national education to be involved in schools. There are schools that can't pay for water, gas, electricity. Yesterday or the other day in the newspapers, we can see that school administrators or schools are on the front page because they can't hire a cleaning crew or a co-worker. We condemn them for causing such a waste when they have no money for schools. Is this law clause being brought up as a means to control the foundations they don't want and to make the government feel their financial bat on top of them all the time? Such a country does not govern, such a state does not govern, such education and teaching cannot be done. We especially want to share it here. This is what we've been hearing from the press that you've been able to break the seals of Kurdish schools that this state has sealed twice, and that they're still training. What do you do, like the sword of Damocles, that you don't want, that you don't want, that you're constantly waiting on them? In particular, when power falls and roars, it reveals its weaknesses. Nabi Avcı, Mr. National Education Minister, has not been able to open schools since they did not make the necessary application until September 1st. As such, the Interior Minister and the Minister of Justice can, of course, open if they create the necessary infrastructure. But we do know that other than Turkish, which is in the law, we would like to share with you that education can only be opened by the Council of Ministers, and we would also like to ask: Is the right of the education-education school granted by the Council of Ministers? How will the Home Secretary and the Attorney General respond to that? And we're also wondering how they're going to respond to days and days and days and days and, I don't know, burning schools and dropping flags from school poles. Do you think children without school are considered? Is the psychological atmosphere of burning schools considered? There's only one thing that the power takes into account and only focuss on: lowering the opposition voices. Here, you bring financial audits to universities, foundation universities, and another place, what do you do, to lower the voice of the opposition, you bring up the events of the Alo Fatihites. In particular, we would like to ask the speaker of the National Movement Party, who does not tolerate the opposition's speech, is the period starting with the president appointed to head the YÖKK? Will the people of the nationalist and the people who love this country be taken care of? We'd like to ask you again. Because from what we've been hearing... we didn't build colleges for science, we built them for staffing. I don't care about your science. Their expression is no longer familiar to us. We'd like to share them again from here. When you say colleges, when they have all these problems, I wish colleges had a Minister of National Education here. That's all, especially based on research, we can say that this law was useful for co-existing with the Ministry of National Education. Because when we look at college research grants, we can see that it's really funny. We'd like to share that the fees paid to academics who are going abroad for scientific work or scientific conferences are ridiculous. The travel of university academics is really funny, and it can't provide for any of its needs. But the only thing power is aiming for is to turn all institutions into the backyard of power. This is what they aim for during the time of Hello Yekta. But we also want to say that these goals will remain at the disposal of this government. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0248par0505	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. İstanbul MP Kadir Gökmen Öğüt on behalf of his person. Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0249par0509	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the general part of the second section of the Law Bill 615. Dear lawmakers, this bill that we're discussing -- for general reasons -- has been presented under the effective fight against cancer, but what is intended to be done is the bottom of the iceberg. The goal is to establish six institutions and connect these institutions to a presidency. The bill interferes with the academic functioning of universities and the management structure of foundation universities. Because the head of Turkey's health institutes, which are planned to be established, envisions a new organisation. Of course, science is an irrefutable reality where it can't be produced in simple universities, and other institutions, such as research institutes, provide a huge support for it. And indeed, there are examples in the world. In the United States, National Institutes of Health can be set as an example for the National Institute for Health Research in the United Kingdom, where there is more or less commitment to the state. In addition, some institutions in France, such as the Institute Pasteur, are part of an independent association or foundation. Partial use of funds from the government, part feeding from private resources, does not change the autonomy of management in any way. Because no one with a political identity has an active role in the administration of these foreign institutions that we've just counted, and the appointment of executives of these institutions is usually done with competitive advertisements. Dear MPs, it has nothing to do with the autonomy of the president of TUSEB being appointed by the Prime Minister on the president's proposal by the general secretary on the president's proposal. Other relevant articles have become clear that there are political appointments, that the institution is special to power, not autonomy. The same situation also shows itself in the formation of the governing body in Article 6. Under the head of the Minister of Health, this board, consisting of the ministry's undersecretary, the president and two elected members, has been tasked with determining all policies, strategies and goals of TUSEB. No description of the specifics of these members is clearly included in the bill. Even that alone is the clearest sign of impropriety and political staffing. It is very thoughtful that the High Council of Counsellors, which can only make decisions on the basis of advice, will be formed as a result of political appointments. Dear lawmakers, it should be our principle to leave science to the people who deal with it and give them the opportunity to govern themselves. However, however, an independent authority in the face of political power can create the freedom needed for scientific research. Precious lawmakers, according to the European University Association's 2011 study, Turkey is the 28th -- I repeat, 28th in organisational autonomy among 29 European countries, Turkey is the 21st and the 25th in financial autonomy between 29 European countries -- in financial autonomy, in employment, and in the 21st and academic autonomy. We should review the reasons why our universities were forced into the top 500 universities of the world. This table shows that the planned TUSEB (TUSEB) cannot have scientific and administrative autonomy. It's extremely useful to build autonomous structures that you're going to be trying to rebuild these structures, connect them to political power. We have great doubts that these structures have been subjugated. We would like to see such structures, including the Covenant, destroyed immediately, and to be granted full autonomy. Our universities, at the time of the YKK, are unable to produce in any way, to act autonomy and freedom, without fail and without fail in their scientific work. There are also rumors that high-level Ministry officials are pressuring some of the anesthesiologists who are in training, that they will send them to the most remote corners after they've finished their training. Right, wrong, we don't know. I think it would be wise for our Minister to consider that. There's a rumor that even the test questions are ready for your friends who are going to take the new test. I'd like to tell that to our Minister here. The SEC must be removed. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0250par0520	Thank you, Mr. Öpün. Moving on to QA. For 15 minutes, I'll split half of them into questions, half of them into answers. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0251par0524	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the Court has determined that the institution's presence of $8,473,973 is missing by reviewing the financial tables of the Turkish Public Hospitals Institution in 2012. In the study, is there ever a process by the institution to determine responsibility for these sums, which are included in the 197 count account? My second question is: Court reports that revenues from a promotional contract signed between the Ministry of Health and the People's Bank in 2012 were found irregularly in violation of the tender law. These funds are supposed to be kept in the long term account, but are not kept in the current account, with which some top bureaucrats are supposed to renovate their own office rooms, buy luxury items, and spend them on luxury power tools. What have you done with such accounts, such irregularities, and what have you done with them? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0252par0528	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0253par0530	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, at our Tunceli Hospital, CT and MRI are sending patients back to Elazığ, as I've been told. Is the Minister planning to send a new MRI and CT to our hospital? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0254par0533	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0255par0535	Thank you, Mr. President. The Minister serves around 300-400,000 people in the region of Fethiye State Hospital, Kashım, Tetek, Seydikemer, Burdur. Therefore, no renovations, no improvements have been made in the hospital for ten years, and services in the E.R. are failing, especially since the manager has often been replaced. I wanted to ask if there's any work or effort to improve the other parts, particularly the emergency services of the Fethiye Hospital. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0256par0538	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0257par0540	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as you well know, there are no specialists in some majors throughout the province of Kütahya, such as hematologists, nephrologists, and so on. There's a variety of people's victims when they come to other cities. Would you consider doing a favor for Kütahya in new appointments, to those areas where there are no specialists? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0258par0543	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Özdağ... No. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0259par0546	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister -- as we said last year -- Turkey has a very serious number of medical secretaries. These friends of ours are getting a six-year education by doing great work at a young age, and it's hard for our friends to get into public opinion. I gave them a question motion last year about opening the staff, and I asked you to, but there's been no progress. They're screaming. Indeed, it is beneficial to listen to the cries of our friends. Because there's a problem, you know, as a medical secretary, it's either normal high school graduate friends or nurses there do that. These nurses, our uneducated high school graduate friends, they make a lot of mistakes in their correspondence with this doctor, which is very negative to the public. The patient's health is being tampered with, the reports aren't written correctly, the jumps are happening. So, I'd like to hear the voice of the medical secretary here again.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0258par0548	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Dağoğlu...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0260par0550	Thank you, Mr. President. Speaking from the podium a moment ago, the MP of the MHP said that Turkey is among the highest rates of infant mortality in Turkey, in order to defame the procedures carried out by the Ministry of Health in Turkey, but this is not accurate information. I think it would be appropriate to provide accurate information on the issue that we have worked really hard to reduce the mortality of newborns in Turkey -- and that I am involved in. Both universities and the Ministry of Health have worked very hard on this, and UNICEF has always cited the reduction of newborn infant deaths in Turkey at meetings I have been at, and has stressed that everything should be like infant mortality in Turkey. It's wrong information, and I'd like my deputy to find out the truth about this information and correct it.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0258par0552	Thank you, Mr. Mountainoglu. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0261par0554	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, my first question is, is there going to be 200 beds next to the research hospital in Erzincan? My second question is, right now, the municipality is putting a lot of pressure on the site of Erzincan State Hospital to build a multi-story parking lot. They don't want to be president or public hospitals there, but they're putting a lot of pressure on us. Do you know anything about this? What are you going to do? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0262par0558	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0263par0560	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it's a shame about the outbreak of Ebola in West Africa, which has been seen in the last year, and is rapidly spreading across many different countries and continents around the world -- or at least what I perceive -- that there is no serious measure in Turkey -- any case, especially when it comes from that region, when it comes to several hospitals, high fevers, or from those countries -- in Turkey, emergencys are being shut down, moving from the ground, people have a sense that there is no health assurance. If there is a serious ministry study on this, I would appreciate it if you would inform both the House and the public. My second question, if I have time, is that we don't find specialists in the summer months of Kandira and Karamural State Hospitals. Although the population density was high in both the summer and the Karamursel, there were no specialists in summer, the physician came from Izmit State Hospital on temporary duty, and there were certain days of the week... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're dealing with a situation where he doesn't stay out of it.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0264par0565	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0265par0567	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, in my notes, he was the last person to ask Mr. Kaplan a question when I was considering answering one thing. I'll start answering from there very quickly. Mr. Kaplan, first of all, about Ebola, whatever measures the world's most advanced countries have taken, we've been taking those measures for the last six or seven months. We're following people from four other countries that are related to them, and we're following them from the plane, who come directly through the air from there, and who come directly from there. If he has a high fever and needs treatment from the airport, we're taking them to our hospitals or following them. Thus, we have never experienced a problem as a country about Ebola. And I'd like to say that we're taking precautions in the most advanced way, but I think we're doing what we need to do to raise awareness of the public, as well as the lack of panic in society. The trick, the Karamural sample, unfortunately, applies to all the coasts of Turkey, for many areas. These population movements in the summer, I wish they belonged to the Candara and the Caramel, but we can plan this place. Generally, we authorize a settlement by assigning it to the provinces. Because it's the same in Mugla, it's the same in Edirne, it's the same in Çanakkale, it's the same problem in Rize. Because on average, about 30 percent of the population is on the move in the summer. That's why we're authorizing as many city officials as possible. I got my grade on this ISIS thing. Mr. Kaplan, I stand by my words. Doctors and health care providers look for human beings who need health care, and therefore the next step is safety, safety. If I know he's an ISIS member, I'll let the police know he's a member, he'll do what he has to do. So, in that sense, he's reporting someone, he's not giving someone... I don't have to know. If he's sick, if he needs treatment, if he's injured, he's responsible for treating him. As for the travel events, we haven't missed a single drop in health care for any of our citizens in the travel events. Look, even though 29 of our ambulances have been destroyed, we need to discuss whether or not we should have a law-enforcement facility where we have four hospitals, where we have a parking lot, where we have four hospitals, if you're legitimizing the fact that the gold of a parking lot is a health facility, or if we're making the location of this room look like a treatment center, then we need to discuss whether or not we should be a legal state. Me. While giving the PKK example... some PKK sympathizers may build a place where they can treat the wounded or ISIS sympathizer somewhere... we built a place here, we tried to treat them here.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0266par0574	It's not the same thing, Mr. Minister, you can't judge PKK and ISIS together in the fight against those whose habitats have been narrowed down in the Trip movement.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0265par0575	The travel stuff... No, in terms of the location, what health care do they claim to provide under a parking lot? There's no record. No record of the nurse, no record of the doctor. If you don't ask me where the state of law is when a victim comes to our citizen, then I'll make him lie. Here we have to look for the legal state, we have never had anything to do with emergency services within the legal framework, but this is a treatment center. You can argue that which serum is installed in a place in dust in a parking lot, which is medically correct, and I find it hard to understand clearly. And I'm giving you a sample of how wrong you say it is in comparison, to illustrate where you're being treated. That place isn't a treatment center, it can't be. That's why I'm moving on so fast. The other thing is about this stenette. Two companies have been processed for unauthorized products by creating fake brands; 1,230 stenettes have been seized; the state's attorney's office has been charged; other than that, no patient or physician's product problem report has been reported to us. After that, Mr. Yilmaz, the financial tables of the count are in 8 million transactions in the Court reports. We have a problem with handling accounts between the Treasury and the Court. We're trying to figure it out, but in the sense of error, we're doing investigations and investigations of anyone who means a trick. The other is the promotion of the People's Bank... and I'll give you the reviews on the results. Mr. Young, the CT and MRI devices of Tucson are old. I'll have it looked at. Because it's like seven years of medical...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0267par0581	Much older. They're sending patients to the hospital.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0265par0582	If there's a problem with medical efficiency as a medical device, of course we do. Mr. Demir, about the Fethiye State Hospital... I've visited Fethiye State Hospital and the ER twice. We have a request for a place with the Ministry of Forestry that you need there. Once we've solved it, we'll start the bidding process of a new state hospital in Fethiye. Hopefully, we'll win a state hospital for Fethiye. Mr. Impulsion, I'd like to send experts to all of Turkey as a privilege.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0268par0585	He wants his due, sir, he doesn't want privileges, he just wants his due.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0265par0586	But I'd like to say that nephrologist and hematologist are in Kütahya. Maybe not enough, you mean.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0268par0588	Not enough... not enough, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0269par0589	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're out of time. You answer the rest in writing.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0270par0591	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0269par0592	Mr. Topcu...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0270par0593	Mr. Congressman has made a statement that I've been using my name to doodling and giving false information. I want word from the teaser.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0269par0594	Well, as an explanation, you can have your seat, but...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0271par0595	Don't be coy, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0269par0596	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Topcu.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0272par0600	Thank you, Mr. President. Our deputy friend, if he's comparing it to African countries, he's right, but here, I've compared it to OECD countries; that's one. Secondly, I would especially like to ask the Minister to listen very carefully: a 2012-2013 comparison of the Health Statistics General Directorate shows an increase in baby and mother mortality rates in 2013. The source is the Ministry's data. In 2012, there was especially a decline, but this decline is a decrease in our comparison with ourselves, not OECD countries.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0273par0603	I compared them to developed countries.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0272par0604	For him, the increase in 2013, please, if you'll explain, from here, we'd like to thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0273par0605	I compared them to developed countries.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0272par0606	I did the numbers with OECD countries.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0274par0607	Give me the 2002 figures.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0272par0608	Take care of 2002 then.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit04spe0275par0609	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. The talks on chapter two are complete. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0275par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 14th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 615 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions on Article 28: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the first paragraph, after the third sentence, and the first sentence of the second paragraph of the same joke be changed in the following manner. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Oya Eronat Şümümün Ünal Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu Mehmet Metiner "However, the decision of the university boards and the approval of the higher education board can be cut off due to four years in a row or the failure to pay the tuition fee and the failure to renew registration." "A foreign language preparedness class cannot be opened in programmes that are entirely Turkish, except for vocational foreign language courses; however, the decision of the university authorities and the approval of the Board of Higher Education can be provided with foreign language prep classes on demand; students who are unable to succeed in this preparation class will not be cut off and continue their education." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the removal of Article 28 of the current Law Bill 615. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Kemal Aktaş Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0276par0025	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0275par0026	I'm reading the reason: There are many obstacles in Turkey for university students to maintain a healthy education. The most important of these obstacles are the housing issue and the economic difficulties of students. Students have to work to continue their studies, to pay their tuition fees, to provide for books and stationery. These students who have had to work to continue their education are unable to spend enough time in their studies, so they extend their university studies. Another important problem facing students is housing. The government prides itself on opening a new university with each one, ignoring the demand for free and qualified housing for millions of college students. Only 400,000 of the university students who are approaching five million in Turkey have the chance to stay in the dorms. Millions of other students are unable to provide shelter, and a significant part of them are therefore ending their teaching lives. Students who have had the chance to stay in homes at the Credit Homes Association live in fear of being kicked out of their homes at any time. Even investigating students who exercise their democratic rights is seen as grounds for expulsion. This motion aims to abolish this provision, which has given university education a maximum time. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to the first paragraph, after the third sentence, and the first sentence of the second paragraph of the same joke be changed in the following manner. Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends "However, the decision of the university boards and the approval of the higher education board can be cut off due to four years in a row or the failure to pay the tuition fee and the failure to renew registration." "A foreign language preparedness class cannot be opened in programmes that are entirely Turkish, except for vocational foreign language courses; however, the decision of the university authorities and the approval of the Board of Higher Education can be provided with foreign language prep classes on demand; students who are unable to succeed in this preparation class will not be cut off and continue their education." Does the commission agree with the motion? We'll leave it up to appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0277par0040	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0275par0041	I'm reading the reason: Although it is essential that students are not cut off due to the failure to pay their contribution or tuition fees during maximum periods, continuing their records for so long without knowing whether or not they will continue training will make colleges incapable of realising their quota and budget planning. Therefore, it would be more appropriate to add a sentence to the clause concerning the decision of the university authority boards and the failure to pay a contribution or a student's fee four years in a row with the approval of the institute of higher education and the absence of registration. On the other hand, the school language is fully in Turkish, and it is stated that the decision of the university boards and the approval of the higher education board are required to provide optional foreign language preparation classes, and that students who are not successful in this preparation class will not be cut off and will continue their studies. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes the 28th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four motions on Article 29: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first sentence of Article 46 (c) of Article 2547 of Higher Education Law, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 29 in the current 615 rows, is to be added to the first sentence of the first paragraph of Article 46 (c), which is intended to be replaced by the framework of Article 29 of the same joke, after the declaration of "except the open education programmes" and to propose that the second paragraph be removed from the bill. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ali Ercoshkun Smurf Ünal Osman Boyraz Osman Your Love Look
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0278par0054	We're drawing our motion, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0275par0055	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 29th Amendment to the Constitution of the Constitution of Turkey's Health Institutes and to the Constitution of some Laws and Laws. "Students who attend a second university at the level of Lissans pay their contribution and tuition by 50 per cent." We propose that his statement be removed from the text. Light Horseman Nurettin Iron Kadir Gökmen Öğümün Fatma Nur Serter Ramadan Kerim Özkan Ali Serindağ Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the removal of Article 29 of the current Law Bill 615. Pervin Buldan Kemal Aktas İdris Bauken Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0279par0073	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0275par0074	I'm reading the reason: This organises a 50 per cent increase in tuition from students who have not completed their studies with students who have a second degree in licensing and can also receive tuition from students who are registered in a double main programme. In public and in the polls, "We've removed the mortars." This arrangement by the AKP's government, which is acting on rhetoric, has shown that AKP power has no plan and no programme for the removal of the mortars altogether. The AKP sees the student as a customer and commercialises every level of education through this and other policies. It is clear that if this legislation is enforced, the level of dropouts will increase. Especially for poor college students, college doors will be closed. These grounds aim to remove the clause related to this motion. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 29th Amendment to the Constitution of the Constitution of Turkey's Health Institutes and to the Constitution of some Laws and Laws. "Students who attend a second university at the level of Lissans pay their contribution and tuition by 50 per cent." We propose that his statement be removed from the text. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0280par0087	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0281par0088	Mr. President, the government is making the same motion that they didn't agree with, which means they have to agree with what we gave them.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0282par0089	I guess you have to put it together.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0281par0090	I mean, if you have a desire to be united -- so the government shouldn't be in a difficult situation -- can be talked about.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0283par0091	What do you mean, sir?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0281par0092	Mr. President, the government has already suggested what's in our motion. The government also suggested something else. I mean, I don't agree with what we're suggesting. He can't say, because they're already suggesting the same thing. So, I mean, it can be talked about, but I don't agree, because they suggested it themselves. A more comprehensive arrangement.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0284par0094	Since a more comprehensive motion has been made...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0281par0095	Sir, if it's more comprehensive, then he'll agree with the government. We can do the more comprehensive one if we want to talk about it, but we don't agree. If they say it's a contradiction, it's not pleasant, in that way.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0285par0096	Shall I make you read the reason, sir?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0281par0097	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0285par0098	I'm reading the reason: 29. "Students who attend a second higher education at the level of L.A. pay their contribution and tuition by 50 per cent." It's called. There are two basic problems: The first problem is that the higher education share and the higher education fee are not actually up. The student fees that the government has previously declared "müjde" have been removed. It has been revealed that his testimony is merely a temporary decision of the Council of Ministers for the elections. The second problem is that successful students who have a second bachelor's degree, which can be done under difficult conditions, have to be punished for paying tuition with a 50% raise. Success in the education system is unacceptable. In the world, this punishment has probably only been given to AKP power. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first sentence of Article 46 (c) of Article 2547 of Higher Education Law, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 29 in the current 615 rows, is to be added to the first sentence of the first paragraph of Article 46 (c), which is intended to be replaced by the framework of Article 29 of the same joke, after the declaration of "except the open education programmes" and to propose that the second paragraph be removed from the bill. Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0286par0109	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0285par0110	I'm reading the reason: The first paragraph of the (c) joke "except for open education programmes) is added to the first paragraph in order to be observed and not diminishing the appeal of this program. The second paragraph of the joke, on the other hand, is removed from the bill, so that those who have a second degree will not be disadvantaged from their contribution and student fees. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. With this motion adopted on Article 29, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are no motions on Article 30. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four proposals on Article 31, which are the same: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first joke, which is proposed to be added to Article 31 in the current 615 rows, and Article 2547 in Article 11 of Higher Education, should be changed in the following manner. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ali Ercoshkun Osman love Look Osman Boyraz Haci Bayram Türkoğlu The opinion of the Finance Ministry, which the founding foundation or the Ministry of Finance, which has passed direct or indirect funds to the third persons, while conducting education and education activities, takes action on the objective and measurable criteria set by the Institute of Higher Education institutions, in case the source transferred during the given time is not extradited to the foundation higher education institution, the Higher Education Board takes measures to remove the corrective, restrictive or operational permit." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 and the amendment of some Law and Law Code Acts; 31. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Seyfettin Yilmaz Mehmet Şandir Ali Öz Zühal Ballerist Scholar Light D. Ali Torlak The signatures of the other motion are: Pervin Buldan Kemal Aktaş Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Abdullah Levent Tüzel The signatures of the other motion are: Light Horseman Nurettin Iron Kadir Gökmen Öğümün Ali Serindağ Fatma Nur Serker Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ramazan Kerim Özkan Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Does the commission agree with these three proposals of the same nature? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0287par0150	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0285par0151	It's Mr. Thrower who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0288par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. And this is one of the few things that we're going to talk about in this section. This has finally come to this point with a very serious criticism. The problem here is that with this stuff, the hospitals of the foundation colleges are almost clamped down. Now, when the foundation hospitals are seized, there smells like a reckoning, a reckoning, and there's no way for the government to settle a score like that. Look, my fellow doctors know very well that all hospitals in Turkey must get along well with the SGK to survive. If the SGK delays payment for two months, it becomes impossible for that foundation hospital to survive, it becomes very shaky, and then it can get attached to this material. So, now, if for a reckoning, the SGK delays the claim of a foundation hospital for two months, three months, or, as I did when I was chief of medicine, if they pull in random bills and make 30 percent discounts and 40 percent discounts, they won't be able to survive. However, the foundation universities pass through here with your votes, and these universities are established, and these hospitals serve this country again. But it's not right to deal with medicine, health, human health. So I'd like to request the acceptance of our motion and wish you a good evening.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0289par0158	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0290par0159	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0289par0160	I'm reading the reason: In addition to conducting educational and educational activities, the foundation's higher education institutions, which have been determined to be unable to pay their financial debts, can be shut down. It is not right to shut down a university if it is not affected by education and teaching activities. It cannot be denied that the colleges of the foundation are built with great dedication and help in science and education and service. It's not difficult in the reality of our country to close with pressure that political will can't control. It's an unacceptable arrangement. I'm reading the reason for the other motion: During the AKP, the number of foundation universities, which were structured with profit-harm logic and run like companies, has increased rapidly. These universities have been condemned to common rights relationships defined by the market. In this market logic, they have been transformed into the centers of labor exploitation and unsecured, flexible employment. With the spread of unsecured work, academic freedoms, the most important element of scientific work, have been mortgaged and replaced by individual freedoms, which are essential to free thinking, instead of the market-defined relationship. With this amendment, which stipulates the addition of Article 2547 to Law 2547, it is intended to open the way for the closing of the foundation universities that cannot fulfil their financial responsibilities by the SEC. Under this provision, the ESK's claim on the foundation universities is a step up, it aims to ensure that the foundation universities, which were structured with the concept of profit-harm during the AKP rule, will obey the SEC. In this way, universities that obey the SEC want to be created. On these grounds, the amendment was intended to abolish this provision, which has increased my rights to universities. I submit to your votes the three motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first joke, which is proposed to be added to Article 31 in the current 615 rows, and Article 2547 in Article 11 of Higher Education, should be changed in the following manner. Osman Love Bak (Istanbul) and his friends The opinion of the Finance Ministry, which the founding foundation or the Ministry of Finance, which has passed direct or indirect funds to the third persons, while conducting education and education activities, takes action on the objective and measurable criteria set by the Institute of Higher Education institutions, in case the source transferred during the given time is not extradited to the foundation higher education institution, the Higher Education Board takes measures to remove the corrective, restrictive or operational permit." Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0291par0177	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0289par0178	I'm reading the reason: In accordance with objective and measurable criteria, it is also authorized by the Higher Education Board to take measures to remove the corrective, restrictive or operational permit if the source is not returned to the founding foundation or higher education institutions, which have been determined to transfer funds to third persons. It is also transformed into a precautionary decision given to the Higher Education Board, which ensures that no misunderstandings can be challenged because the Higher Education Board is not a practical unit. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with this motion adopted by Article 31, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the interim clause of the frame, which is based on the 32. Those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the temporary clause of the frame 32, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615, and the drafting of the Charter of the Law on Changes in Some Laws and Laws. It's based on Article 67. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Nurcan Dalbudak "Current Article 67: Students who have been cut off from the institutes of higher education prior to the time of its application are suspended in five months if they apply to the institute of higher education at which the clause has been terminated. According to the principles found in the article, if there are programmes and courses opened at the relevant institute of higher education, the following education is half-year, or they can start studying in the following school year." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the interim clause 67, under Article 32 of the current 615 Ordered Bill of the Law. Pervin Buldan Kemal Aktas İdris Bauken Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Hasip Kaplan "Securities in all classes including preparation at 67-High School institutions, prerequisite, undergraduate completion, licensing, grad schooling, students who have been cut off at their will, and who have been suspended from universities abroad by their own will, can begin their studies in the 44th Articles of the Law, under which they have been suspended in 2014-2015, even though they have been cut off for whatever reason. The army of those who are due for military service during the application period is now officially suspended. Those who serve as soldiers on the day of this clause's application to the relevant institute of higher education during the two months following their discharges are entitled to the rights specified in this article. Those who have registered at the institute of higher education, where they have been separated from the provisions, and documented that their employment or residence is in another province, can move horizontally to the equivalent degree programmes of universities in the province where they reside, provided they can provide a base score for the university they want to pass as of the year of admission and the senates in the province in which they reside, in accordance with the procedures set by the senates and fundamentals. If students gain student status at an institute of higher education and apply for it, they can move horizontally to areas within the state-of-the-art of the Anadolu University that are equal to pre-education or license-level quota limits, and in non-content degree programmes, they can move to any section they want. The Higher Education Board is authorized to determine the procedures and foundations for the application of this clause." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0292par0202	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0289par0203	Motive... The proposal aims to expand the scope of the arrangement for students who have been cut off for any reason with higher education institutions to regain education rights. It is also intended to prevent complications from being attributed to the interim Article 58. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who do not... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the Frame 32 of the Charter of the 615 Turkish Health Institutes that is currently being held, and the Charter 32 of the Law shall be made to change the provisions of some Law and Law. It's based on Article 67. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Cemadın Simsek (Samsun) and Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends "Current Article 67: Students who have been cut off from the institutes of higher education prior to the time of its adoption are suspended if they apply to the institute of higher education within five months of the application of this clause. According to the principles found in the article, if there are programmes and courses opened at the relevant institute of higher education, the following education is half-year, or they can start studying in the following school year." Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0293par0215	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0289par0216	I'm reading the reason: It is intended that the pardoned students should not be denied their rights. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. With this motion, I submit the interim clause of Article 32, 67, to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two proposals on the interim Article 68 of Article 32. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 and the amendment of some Law and Law Acts; 32. Depending on the clause, "International completing training is completed by the late Madde 68." We propose and propose the addition of the declaration "with a recording of applied education as long as the duration of the training period taken by equal licensed licenses in their education." Seyfettin Yilmaz Alim Ik Mehmet Şandir Ali Öz D. Ali Torlak Zuhal Topcu Mersin İstanbul Ankara Emin Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 32nd draft of the "Security of Turkey's Health Institutes Chairmanship and the 32nd Amendment to Decisions under some Law and Law." Depending on the clause, "International completing training is completed by the late Madde 68." We would like to propose the addition of the declaration "with a recording of applied training as long as the application period in the education of equal licensed licenses." Light Horseman Nurettin Demir Ali Serindağ Hülya Güven Fatma Nur Serçer Mehmet Hilal Kaplan İzmir İskeli Ramazan Kerim Özkan Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu These two proposals I've been reading are the same. Do you agree with the motions of the same nature? We don't agree, Mr. President. You?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0294par0244	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0289par0245	Mr. Iron, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0295par0247	Dear President, honorable lawmakers, we continue to discuss Bill 615. Of course, it's very nice for pre-licensed nurses to get up to the level of grad schooling from a distance. Our nurses and everyone wants a higher level of education or a higher profession. We see it as a substance that we find very appropriate. Of course, what's important here is that our sister friends can only convert the theoretical information they received from remote training into practical information, and for that, a program is made. I'd like to point out that it is also important for them to complete their practice, their practical training, at the hospital, at the beginning of the patient. Nurses, doctors, and paramedics are a team, and nurses are one of the most important elements of this team, one of their crew. Nurses who work day and night in difficult conditions, we all know, are the most important factors in human health, their employees. Not just in our country, but in many parts of the world, nurses work under difficult conditions. Apart from the lack of branching, the administrations in institutions view nurses as slaves to work under any circumstances, the lack of a real definition of the profession on the constitutional plane, the removal of their rights, they face a number of major local problems in almost all institutions. The last example of this is being held at the University of 9 September Medical School, especially in terms of the problems of the profession, which have been invisible by ministry and institutional policies, is a typical example of the point of the nursing profession and its problems. Here, a nurse receives at least 12 patients. This increases the chances of nurses making mistakes. Nurses who can't successfully fulfill their professions due to increased workloads want their salaries to be corrected, their additional payments increased, their daycare hours set according to their working hours, and their permission reports are not cut. Now, of course, since nurses usually just finished training, they have maternity leave, they have birth permits, and the fact that their present maternity leave has grown, and the fact that the remaining ones, the number of nurses, are really putting a lot of pressure on the crews. So I think it's very important for nurses and health workers to increase, improve their staff here, a little bit -- as in my previous speech. As nurses having similar problems in all the provinces of Turkey have run out of social lives, the practice of intimidation, pressure, insults, in other ways, has broken the peaceful, happy working environment, and the professional and team peace. The implementation of place changes as punishment; the ability to impose or enforce the employee's opinion in decisions that affect the nurse, regardless of whether it is necessary to take the employee's opinion; the constant efforts to process, legal action, discipline; the punishment of rights seekers, as well as the motivation to work in the same way. Despite the lack of interest in the issues of the supervisors of the unit he is assigned to oversee nursing practices and care, the fact that technicians, other than nurses, are assigned as supervisors, can really lead to professional conflicts. I'd like to make another point. Medical officers and other physicians who worked in prisons were not subject to equal practice. Even though this institution has been transferred to the Ministry of Health, health workers are both financially and socially in trouble because the Ministry of Health has not been transferred to the Ministry of Health. I mentioned it last year, Mr. Secretary, that you would review this matter and come to a conclusion. I don't know, what did you do? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0296par0256	Thank you, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0297par0257	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0296par0258	I'm reading the reason: The Interim Article 68, added to Article 32 to 2547, envisions the completion of a license in the field of health. Education on the subject can cause problems in areas determined by the NGO, in areas that require remote training. Pre-license degree holders will maintain the standard of the profession by providing them with practical training as long as the practical training period of the equivalent license holders in their education. The benefit of applied education in the field of health is undeniable. These areas require not only knowledge but also practical training and experience. I submit to your votes these two motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to your votes the interim clause of Article 32: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now there's a motion for a new interim supply. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause can be discussed on the motions the commission has already attended, and a number of motions may be submitted in this article. So, I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission, and if the Commission joins in the motion with only 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause, and if it does not, I will remove it from the process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and introduce the following interim clause to Article 32 of the current Law Charter 615 and Act 2547. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Oya Eronat == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Mujahit Nuts "LIVORAL MADDE 70 - University grants and additional payments are not paid from professors who are experts in medicine, dental medicine and medicine, as of the date when this clause is in effect, to those who are working in freelance work or private health services, until they have completed their activities. Those who want to end their stated activities report their wills to institutional governments until 31/12/2014, and their activities are concluded by 31/5/2015 at the latest and have been revoked. During that time, financial rights and additional payments will continue to be fully paid. Those who have been determined by a judicial decision to abuse the mandate due to the activities stated by the professors present under this clause will be revoked with the condition that their responsibilities remain hidden according to the general provisions, such as a work permit or a permit to work at a free profession or private health institution. This clause is also applied to members of the Gülhane Military Medical Academy. However, the financial rights that will not be paid to the faculty are a university grant and health care compensation." Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion with your absolute majority? Mr. President, our Commission is only here most of the time, we have 15 members; we share with the majority of us. Well, then, I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Proposal request...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0298par0278	Mr. President, I think that last sentence should be redacted, the sentence has been overturned. "However, the financial rights that will not be paid to the professors are the grant of the university and the compensation of health care." Instead, they will not receive a university grant and compensation for health care.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0296par0280	There's something in the sentence. The commission has a demand for correction, if I'm not mistaken. Sir, I'm going to request a correction on another matter, but with the permission of the editor-in-chief...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0299par0283	It doesn't change the meaning, so it's a reduction.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0296par0284	If you agree to this, I'd like to take the liberty of... Of course, let's leave it to the General Assembly's discretion with the authority to write. Mr. President, earlier, there was a temporary clause attached to the 32nd article. I wanted to remind you that it would be more appropriate for the law to identify the substances. Thank you. Yeah, they'll make it happen in a way that's necessary. Now, since there's no need to say anything, I'd like to submit to your votes the new interim clause requirement, along with this request for reduction: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions on Article 33 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 and of the 33rd Amendment to the Constitutional Code of Law and Law; We propose and propose that the clause in the article be replaced as "imposed to be removed." Seyfettin Yilmaz Zühal Topcu Emin Çınar Ali İkım Mehmet Şandir Ali Öz D. Ali Torlak Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 33 of the current 615 Numbered Bill be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Kemal Aktas İdris Bauken Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0300par0308	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0296par0309	I'm reading the reason: The mandate and jurisdiction of the YOC, a custody institution on universities, is permanently expanded during the AKP's rule. In contrast, the academic and administrative autonomy of universities is permanently restricted and eliminated. With this arrangement, the AKP's government fully transfers the authority of universities in the foreign language preparation education-education school to the NGO. This motion aims to prevent further increased powers of the CEC, which is the product of the coup on September 12th. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 and of the 33rd Amendment to the Constitutional Code of Law and Law; We propose and propose that the clause in the article be replaced as "imposed to be removed." Ali Öz (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0301par0320	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0296par0321	I'm reading the reason: Article and students are prevented from being expelled from universities due to failing undergraduate training. It's a proper change. A proper adjustment has been made, considering the delays that could have been caused by social problems during the language training. The meaning of the sentence has been strengthened. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit Article 33 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 33 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 34, all three of which are of the same nature. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and release Article 34 of the current Law Bill 615 and introduce other substances. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Aytuğ Atcı İdris Baluken Oktay Vural Engin Altay The signatures of the other motion are: Pervin Buldan Kemal Aktas İdris Bauken Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Hasip Kaplan The signatures of the other motion are: Zühal Topcu Oktay Vural Mehmet Şandir Ali Öz Emin Çınar S. Nevzat Don't Fear Does the commission agree with these proposals of the same nature? Mr. President, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0302par0348	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0296par0349	I'm reading the reason: The AKP government is trying to establish a university of health sciences in its own hands, according to its experts and NGOs. In this way, political will connects its research and development in healthcare as well as its higher education, destroys its autonomy, commercializes it. Our country is really far behind in scientific research developed countries. It is undoubtedly a good goal for public health and health expenditure to develop medicine and medical equipment through national resources among TSEB's purposes. However, research and development activities require truly free, administratively autonomous environments. It's very possible for these environments to be created in universities. However, with this law, universities will become more ineffective, science will be controlled, scientific production will be essentially an activity for profit. With its special budgeted, private legal provisions, its incentive to corporateize, TUSEB has made it clear that that's exactly what the intention is. This bill is the design for the transformation of scientific work into commercial value. Under the name R&amp;D, it's the design of starting a company that you find appropriate, giving back to what you think is appropriate, and giving back to what you think is appropriate. THE so-called autonomy of TUSEB depends solely on the government. The chairman of the board is the Minister of Health himself. The Governing Body and members of the High Council are highly appointed by the government. With this bill, the government wants to take science into its own hands. This motion aims to prevent the government from establishing an institution of antidemocratic structure and broad powers. I'm reading the reason for the other motion: It has been foreseen to be removed from the draft for the purposes of reevaluation of matter. I submit the motions to your votes together, those who agree... those who refuse... are accepted. Let's vote on Article 34...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0303par0357	Sir, the substance has been removed.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0296par0358	I'm sorry, it's all a little complicated, it's a little fast, so, uh, sorry. We're moving too fast, we're bringing stuff in and out. The 34th article is thus removed from the draft text, and others will be identified according to it. I submit Article 35 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 38 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 39, I'm having it read...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0304par0365	We're shooting, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0296par0366	We got that, too. In that case, I submit Article 39 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 40th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 41: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework of Law Bill 615, which is currently in session, shall be changed to Article 41, as follows. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Ihsan Sener Osman Boyraz Smurf Ünal The "Special Budgeted Other Governments" of the "MADDE 41-10/12/2003 and added to Public Financial Management and Control Law 5018 (II) has been added to "The President of the Turkish Institutes of Health" in section "B" 46." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 41 of the current 615 Numbers Bill be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Kemal Aktaş Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0305par0386	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0296par0387	I'm reading the reason: The AKP government is trying to establish a university of health sciences in its own hands, according to its experts and NGOs. In this way, political will connects its research and development in healthcare as well as its higher education, destroys its autonomy, commercializes it. Our country is really far behind in scientific research developed countries. It is undoubtedly a good goal for public health and health expenditure to develop medicine and medical equipment through national resources among TSEB's purposes. However, research and development activities require truly free, administratively autonomous environments. It's very possible for these environments to be created in universities. However, with this law, universities will become more ineffective, science will be controlled, scientific production will be essentially an activity for profit. With its special budgeted, private legal provisions, its incentive to corporateize, TUSEB has made it clear that that's exactly what the intention is. This bill is the design for the transformation of scientific work into commercial value. Under the name R&amp;D, it's the design of starting a company that you find appropriate, giving back to what you think is appropriate, and giving back to what you think is appropriate. THE so-called autonomy of TUSEB depends solely on the government. The chairman of the board is the Minister of Health himself. The Governing Body and members of the High Council are highly appointed by the government. With this bill, the government wants to take science into its own hands. This motion aims to prevent the government from establishing an institution of antidemocratic structure and broad powers. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework of Law Bill 615, which is currently in session, shall be changed to Article 41, as follows. Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends The "Special Budgeted Other Governments" of the "MADDE 41-10/12/2003 and added to Public Financial Management and Control Law 5018 (II) has been added to "The President of the Turkish Institutes of Health" in section "B" 46." Does the commission agree with the motion? We'll leave it up to appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0306par0399	We agree.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0296par0400	I'm reading the reason: As a result of the removal of Frame 34 from the Charter of the Charter, the required regulation of the matter was intended. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes the 41st article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 42 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 42nd article of the current 615 Numbers Bill be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Hasip Kaplan Kemal Aktaş Abdullah Levent Tüzel Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0307par0415	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0296par0416	I'm reading the reason: In the current law, "It is imperative that open places, such as a tavern, a coffeehouse, a factory, a bar, an electronic gaming center, and open liquor stores, are at least a hundred metres from the school buildings to the door." The government has made it possible for the classes to be included in the transformation programme through this legal arrangement to be exempt from this obligation by the year of training 2018-2019. In other words, the AKP's power is opening new areas for capital in the process of privatisation in the context of neoliberal policies of education. No educational institution is granted legal security and privileges. That's why this motion was made. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 42nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 42nd article is accepted. There are two proposals on Article 43 that are of the same nature, and I read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615, as well as the 43rd amendment of the Law and Law Act. We offer and offer the release of the letter from the text. Aytüğtor Ali Serindağ Fatma Nur Serter Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Ramazan Kerim Özkan Hülya Güven The signatures of the other motion are: You looked after Yilmaz İzaletın Lightning Scholar Light Emin Çınar Ali Öz D. Ali Torlak Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0308par0438	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0296par0439	Mr. Horseman, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0309par0440	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, when it comes to nurses, we need to have a few words, because they're the most important members of the health army, nurses are like locomotives, and without nurses, the health system can't walk at all. But, from what we understand from this clause, you, like your previous practices, employ surrogates and nurses. Look, remember the first words I said: we said the health system wouldn't work without a nurse, and no way, but now you're getting up, bringing up the job of a substitute midwife and a nurse. There's no way that's acceptable. It's even worse than the subcontractory system. It's like slavery. I mean, you subcontract a person, come on, but when you make a substitute nurse, it's like a system of slavery. There's a nurse in a clinic, there's a nurse, there's a nurse's assistant, there's no way to talk about a working peace here. The Ministry of Health has no right to continue. That's why the safety of the job is so important and critical that the nurses of this midwife have to put an end to the surrogacy system, and I salute you.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0296par0442	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. On the other motion, Mersin MP Ali Öz. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0310par0445	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it is important that we express in Article 43 of the Law Bill 615; indeed, I believe it is not right that even the name of the nurse is mentioned in such a way. Indeed, when we consider health care in a wholety, we have no idea that nurses are the engine of this work, so I think there's a team effort to produce health care. Therefore, I think it would be more appropriate for them to be kept away from hurtful things that would limit their rights to self - control, even their name would be adjective. We're going through a process where we actually bring some problems with some of the materials that we accept. In particular, I consider ourselves responsible for producing quality services in health care and for making certain warnings at the point where we must quickly take new measures after which our citizens are victims. I would especially like to share with you the concern that doctors will not be running away from medical schools, training hospitals, especially the difficult patients, especially their multi-privileged surgeries. I'd also like to say that the Ministry of Health and the friends of the Health Commission have to come together to conduct a very thorough examination, to make a decision. If we try to get university teachers to do the most difficult surgeries under today's conditions, with limited income from return capital, our citizens will suffer the biggest damage. Therefore, the cost of victimizing the citizens, the loss of the citizens, and this great nation says it will not forgive us, and I salute the high council.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0311par0451	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit these two motions to your votes together: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 43 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are no motions on Article 44. I submit Article 44 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the 45th article, both of which are the same property.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0312par0457	We're shooting 45.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0311par0458	You've drawn 45, there's one motion left. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Section 45 of the current Legislature 615 from the bill. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ali Ercoshkun Ihsan Sener your love Look Osman Boyraz Does the commission agree with the motion? We'll leave it up to appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0313par0469	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0311par0470	Motive... The bill was intended to be removed from the draft as a result of the removal of Frame 34 from the Charter. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... have been accepted and removed from Article 45. On the 46th article, the two are the same property...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0314par0475	Sir, we're shooting.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0311par0476	You did. There's a motion on Article 46, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Section 46 of the current Law Bill 615 from the bill. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ali Ercoshkun İhsan Sener Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Ilyas Şeker Does the commission agree with the motion? Sir, we're giving you credit. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0315par0487	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0311par0488	Motive... The bill was intended to be removed from the draft as a result of the removal of Frame 34 from the Charter. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion has been accepted and thus the 46th article has been removed. There's a motion on Article 47, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and release Article 47 of Law Bill 615 which is currently in session and identify other substances. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Oktay Vural Engin Altay Mehmet Doğan Kubat İdris Balaken Aytuğ Atcı Does the commission agree with the motion? We'll leave it up to appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0316par0502	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0311par0503	Motive... It has been foreseen to be removed from the draft for the purposes of reevaluation of matter. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The 47th article was thus removed. There are two motions on Article 48: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 48th Amendment to the Constitutional Amendment to the Constitution of the State of Turkey's Health Institutes and to the Constitution of Turkey's Health Institutes. The article states, "Those assigned to such duties are not to be paid for either of these tasks." We propose that his sentence be removed from the text. Aytüğtor Ali Serindağ Fatma Nur Serter Hülya Güven Ramazan Kerim Özkan Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar S. Nevzat Don't Fear D. Ali Torlak Lütfu Türkkan Ali Öz Does the commission agree with the motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0317par0525	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0311par0526	Mr. Akar, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0318par0528	Mr. President, I'm not going to talk too long, and I know that in order for this to end, all groups have agreed to pass this law immediately. Today, the TOKI (TİKI) had control; the above OSCE Commission had control of the TOKI (TİKİKİ) Commission, and we learned that 167 existing hospitals are now being made by TOİKİ. But 167 hospitals were built by TOKI, and there were complications. These difficulties have been determined, for example, that the quality of concrete in some hospitals is not consistent with concrete criteria; some hospital productions are lacking iron, and iron is not used according to its size. Now, in these hospitals, our patients will be in bed, our doctors, our nurses will be in charge, and we face such difficulties. They're being audited by counseling firms, which means the counseling firms are checking for control, but when they're doing inspections, there's no employee health and occupational safety inspectors or civil engineers in the court reports. That's what we're dealing with. You too, please, I beg you, these hospitals are required of all of us to try to get the hospitals done properly, and if you have construction properties, you must have them inspected separately from the TOKI. While some hospitals are being granted temporary admissions, these are five per cent of the law due to the delivery process, so that they can be granted temporary admissions, so that the incompletes can be completed. Now, here's what they do: I throw it out, it costs $20 million, it costs $20 million. When you say 5%, they remove the gaps in a 1 million TL grant, but when the job is done, 13 percent, 14 (14), 15 (15). I mean, they go around the back of the existing law and they tolerate these flaws to get the temporary acceptance there, and then they pay big numbers. Again, we've seen some of the hospitals you've built in the creek bed, something very interesting.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0319par0533	Really?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0318par0534	There's been a change of plans since the hospital's foundation. Then we witnessed a hospital's decision to build on a natural gas pipe. These are very important things, because they were given the chance to tender, to tender, without having a deed to the TİKİ, without a position plan, without a contract in 2003, and there were no conditions for them, and when the tenders were made, they hit the wall later when they went down and looked at it, and they hit the natural gas pipeline, and here they hit the creek bed.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0319par0535	Kayseri is in the swamp...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0318par0536	Yeah. Again, eight hundred days have passed, it's started, eight hundred days... so when you look at three hundred and sixty-five days -- three hundred and sixty-five days in a year -- although it's been over three years, the Ministry of Health wants to fix the project, ask for reorganization. Again, again, he's changing the structure of the emergency room, I don't know, the basement, the prison room, where the prisoner is going to sleep, and eight hundred days later, he wants to renovate the project, which, of course, causes delays. When E causes delays, detention cannot be imposed because there is no delay from management or from the contractor. There are problems like this, and I believe this should be audited by the Ministry of Health. And when you're given hospital projects, you're going to take a standard based on the population of the city, based on the geographical position of the city, or based on the climate conditions there, whatever you're going to take, so if you're doing it in the hot climate, Antalya, if you're doing it in the cold climate, if you're doing it in Erzurum, if you're doing it in the cold climate, if you're doing it in Erzurum, the heating systems have to have a standard, but there's no standard. Hospital construction is under way, three hundred days later, five hundred days later, and the Ministry of Health is demanding correction. I'm saying it's all wrong, too. I think the minister should take care of these issues and make the necessary corrections now, and take care of them in hospitals after this, because these hospitals are all of us. God forbid, I know that when something happened to us -- I lived in the earthquake zone in 1999 -- we witnessed the destruction of our public hospitals. I mean, can you agree to continue building a hospital where iron shortages, concrete standards are wrongly used or incomplete? I'm saying that they must be audited, that they must be reviewed, and I want to thank you all.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0320par0541	Thank you, Mr. Akar. The term "no payment is paid in the assignments" applies to the definition of "angarya" in our Constitution. It's unconstitutional. However, medical examiners who work as contracts are already well-paid by law. The goal here is to protect and protect those who want to be paid high wages by putting them in this status. I submit these two motions to your votes together: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 48th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 49:
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0321par0548	We're shooting, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0320par0549	Did you take it?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0321par0550	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0320par0551	Okay. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 49th Amendment to the Constitutional Amendment to the Constitution of the State of Turkey's Health Institutes and to the Constitution of Turkey's Health Institutes. We propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text and that other substances be sorted accordingly. Aytüğtor Ali Serindağ Hülya Güven Fatma Nur Serter Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ramazan Kerim Özkan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0322par0563	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0323par0564	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0320par0565	I'm reading the reason: The General Directorate for Health Ministry Health Research, which was established only two and a half years ago with the NGO 663. The reason is that TUSEB was founded. This clause is a confession that TUSEB is a non-privileged structure of the Ministry. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 49th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Interim Article 1, which I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the addition of the statement 2015 to the first joke of the temporary 1st article of the current 615 rows of the Bill of Law. Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose an addition of the declaration "by unanimous agreement" following the statement issued in the second joke of "The Executive Board" in the second joke of "The Establishment of the State Health Institutes of Turkey" and "Second order" of some Law and Law." Aytücı Kardir Gökmen Öğüt Mahmut Tanal Fatma Nur Serter Hasan Ören Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0324par0587	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0325par0588	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0320par0589	I'm reading the reason: The board's decisions will be unanimous until regulations are in effect. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the addition of the statement 2015 to the first joke of the temporary 1st article of the current 615 rows of the Bill of Law. Ahmet Aydın (Adıyaman) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We leave it to the General Assembly's discretion, sir. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0326par0600	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0320par0601	I'm reading the reason: Due to the preparations for the fiscal year 2015 budget law, the spending of the year 2015 is also expected to be met by the method specified in the joke. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the temporary article 1: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions on the 50th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the chairmanship of Turkey's Health Institutes No. 615 and the amendment of some Law and Law Acts; 50. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. "MEDDE 50-1) This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing." Seyfettin Yilmaz Cemalettın Lightning Zühal Topcu D. Ali Torlak Ali Öz Emin Çınar
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0327par0615	We're shooting, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0320par0616	You've got it... Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0328par0620	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0320par0621	I'm reading the reason: There's no point in giving 3 years to some institutes. The ministry doesn't really need other institutions very much. These could be the institutions that have their own name. The goal is to provide the expected benefits with two institutions. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit Article 50 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There is a motion in Article 51: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 51st Amendment to the Constitutional Amendment to the Constitution of the State of Turkey's Health Institutes and to the Constitution of Turkey's Health Institutes. He is responsible for "moving." We offer a change in form. Aytuğ Atı Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ramazan Kerim Özkan Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Ali Serindağ Fatma Nur Serter Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0329par0638	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0320par0639	Mr. Horseman, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0330par0640	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, this is how you established the Ministry of Health Institutes in Turkey. Hopefully, the Ministry of Health will be able to contribute to the science produced in Turkey through the institutions it will establish here, not forgetting its original duties. However, there are parts of the government that we can't touch with this bill that has become a health bag law, and that the government owes us an apology, and I want to remember them from here. For example, we couldn't solve residents' problems with this bill, even though we had the means. The government owes them an apology. Just as we couldn't solve the nurses' problems, we found a strange practice like being a substitute nurse to them. This government owes them money, too. We couldn't solve the problems of medical technologists, we couldn't solve employment problems. This government must apologize to them as well. The biggest apology is to subcontractors because the role of subcontractors in offering health care is very, very large, and unfortunately, the Ministry of Health has become the most subcontractors in the public, so the government owes an apology to subcontractors that we can't solve, that we can't hire. Again, the government must also apologize to patients who have stopped operating because of the notification of health practices and therefore cannot be operated on. Although many applications have been conducted here, the chief and chief assistants in training and research hospitals remain as they are. This government owes them an apology. The problems of the professors have been rapidly raised, and most recently, with the Constitutional Court's ruling, a new one has been added to these problems, and since this government cannot solve the problems of the faculty, it must also apologize to the professors. Medical secretaries, the medical secretaries that we've carefully trained and asked to keep all our reports, can be solved while the staff and employment problems can be solved, and with this law, they can't be solved, and this government owes medical secretaries a debt. We must remember that health care is one thing. From the senior professor to the subcontractor who cleans the floors, everyone will be hand in hand, in peace of work, in peace, in return for their hard work, and when they produce services in return for their hard work, their infant deaths will continue to decline, their mother's death will continue to decrease, otherwise the health system will get worse and worse every day will be delivered to the wild capitalism of the market. With these concerns and concerns, I give you all my regards and I bid you good night.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit05spe0331par0645	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 51st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. The negotiations of the bill are complete. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-13sit06spe0331par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 14th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 615 from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will continue negotiations with the European Commission for Information and Technology and the Justice Commission for Industry, Trade, Energy, and Development and Technology, which are ranked in the fourth place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission cannot be found in other tasks, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (November 18th 2014) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, according to the decision made with verbal question motions. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
