tbmm-2014-10-23sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 8th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press voting buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during that time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots in a three-minute window. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 8th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The first roll call at the opening didn't have enough meetings. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, starting roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Mr. Ali Halaman, the Adana MP, who asked about current events in Adana and its districts. Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0002par0015	Mr. President, thank you. And thank you for making an off-the-book promise to bring up the current issues of Adana. I salute your grand delegation, the Turkish nation, with respect, with love. Adana became a very troubled, troubled country at its current point. Adana is the district of Saimbeyli. Because Adana is a place where the national struggle breathes... the salvation of Saimbeyli has been celebrated for 80 years. I'm celebrating the Saimbeys' salvation holiday. So in 1918, French soldiers came to Adana from the port of Mersin, from the port of Alexander, and occupied those regions. As we look at it today, we have the opportunity to see the soldiers of different countries around Adana, where today's government is also the cause. Adana became a part of the geography, which grew smaller and more unemployed when it should have grown during this period of government, where production has fallen, labor has lost its sweat, industry, agriculture, transport, transportation, terrorism, and therefore violence has become very concentrated. Therefore, we often had proposals at the point of bringing the problems of Adana's people to the Turkish Grand National Assembly and bringing them to the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation, to address the problems of Adana, the problems of the ministers who carried out the problems of Adana, which is purely nematical, contractor-based, personal work-based, and at the point of bringing down and improving the basic problems of Adana. Recently, even though Adana had a cotton harvest period, the log of cotton weighs 1,200 liras. So there's only one today, with 12 flour factories on the entire Adana side, which have been issued with this inclusion of processing documents. So we're going to do exports based on exports by taking a foreign processing certificate. That's why cotton prices don't go up. Another job, our Kozan, had a dam. Above Kozan is the mountain region, the woodland, and the lowland. It's usually watery farming. There's a lot of citrus garden because of the watery agriculture. Thus, although the cotton, soybean, corn is abundant, its trustees from this drought and climate conditions have not been filled with water for a long time, so the second product is not allowed to be added. By petitioning the chiefs for the feeding of this Kozan Dam, I mean, we don't have a position in the district managers -- we can't do that at the top, where we call this Kozan Dam, even if it's hot water -- even at the point where it's being transferred to our dam -- I mean, there's always an offer to the Ministry of Forest and Water, to the people, to the water farmers, even though we have petitioned for it, and then we can't do it in the district managers, so let's think about it, we can't do it now. I'm speaking from here, again from the House: I mean, this agricultural dam we call irrigation in Kozan. I expect this Ministry to be sensitive because of this talk, to feed on water; respect, love to all of you; good-bye.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0003par0023	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. The second non-responsive statement is from İstanbul MP Sabat Akkiray, who wants to speak about the problems of our citizens, the month of battle and Alevi. Here you go, Mr. Akkiray.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0004par0028	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today I have made a commitment to the demands of the people of Battle Month and Alevi. Tomorrow is the first day of the month of battle, which is the beginning of the days of mourning for the Muslim community for the thousand and three hundred and thirty-four years. Why the day of mourning? Because of the dark days when 72 lives were taken from the family of the great-grandson of Muhammad Hussein and Muhammad the Holy One. Why was our prophet slain, his family, and why did he suffer as if it had happened yesterday for a thousand three hundred and thirty-four years? For the blood of our prophet, which flowed to Kerbala, was slain for the sake of power, for the sake of riches, for the sake of tribalism, for the slaughter of the Muslim people. One thousand three hundred and thirty-four years of fasting, tears falling out, and mourning. It is almost a crime to be Alevi with the practices of power; their places of worship are destroyed; and when it is not enough to say, "We will cut off your underwear to the Flames," they attack with all the resources of the state. When mandatory religious lessons are not enough, they attack with a so-called non-religious one. They even adjust their teaching assignments accordingly. To seek freedom of faith only for his own faith is the greatest cruelty, persecution. You can't ignore citizens like you who don't believe and worship. Anything you do with your finger count today will lead to greater dissolutions, conflicts, divisions in the future. We're trying to stop it. So, why is power so cruelly discriminated against the Alevi that it ignores its demands? Because he's a sectarian, he's trying to assimilated someone who's not like him with the resources of the state. Alevi children who have succeeded in KPSS are unable to pass interviews. There are hundreds of complaints about them. I've been asking you for years, you still haven't answered: how many citizens do you have in the public, with a flame of bureaucracy? How many Flames are served in military high-level missions, governorships, subsidiaries, universities, municipalities? Even for one of the football players who played on the national team, there was no discrimination called Hatay? The government has left the Alevi out of the public, out of hunger, poverty, and beyond. And he's doing it systematically. Isn't that another aspect of the massacre? No one in our country has a problem with our religion. The tribulation is with the merchants of religion, those who slay the family of the Prophet for the sake of religion, and those who slay the family of the prophet for the sake of power, and those who say, "If Kerbala were today, we would be with Yazid. " Are you looking for Kerbela? Look at Hamah, and Lazkiye, and Telafer, and look at Kobani, and at Shengal. Kerbala is still there, people are dying, women are sold in markets, children are slaughtered. It is our duty, above all, to protect Kobani, Hama, and Shengal. Isn't standing up to the tyrant the most important command of Islam? Today, Yezids find our geography in blood, their violence doesn't listen to Turkmen, Kurds, Arabs, Ezidi. This abomination, hatred, and ugliness, which had nothing to do with Islam, must come to an end. It is our duty to do whatever it takes for the people of Alevi to take their share of the government's practices, like any other people. As the last words to those who ignore it for sectarianism, for partying, for the latter: The people of Alevi have a saying: If every era has Yazid, there is a Huseyin of every age. The only power we need to stand up to the tyrant is to walk in the path of Muhammad the Great, Ali the Holy One, Hüseyin the Holy One. What did some of the ruling party say? If it were Kerbala today, we would be with Yazid. And if it were Kerbela today -- I'm telling you from here -- we'd be with Hussein, we'd be with Hussein, we'd be with Hussein again. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0005par0037	Thank you, Mr. Akkiray. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Fuat Karakuş, a member of the Church who wants to talk about investments in the church. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0006par0042	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to investments in the Church. I hereby salute our holy nation and your grand delegation, the city of the Saharas, the city of Ensar, and my fellow citizens of the Church. The AK PARTY has given our country a great process of development and change. As of 2013, 1.6 billion euros were invested and supported by the Church in ten years. The distribution of investments and supports is: Transport and communications $79m, education at $82m, healthcare at $60m, justice at $6 million, forest and waterworks at 143.5 million, energy and of course resources at $35.7m, environmental and urbanism at 92 million, TOKI $179m, Ilbank 252.5m; food, agriculture and animalism at $124m, Ministry of Family and Social Policy, 155 million, youth and sports at 92m euros, culture and tourism 20.7 million, and tourism at $5.7m, US$5 million, US$45 million, $45 million, $45 million, and U.S.C. Mr. President, we've raised the number of valuable lawmakers from 143 to 241, we've increased the number of schools and institutions by 138. By 2013, we provided $10 million for our 6,500 students. We've sent 2,373 computers, 179 smart boards, 1,289, expanded pilots- tablets. The number of students, 2,170 in 2008, reached 8.500 in 2014. We've built 200-bed Central State Hospital, Kilis State Hospital Dialysis Unit, Public Health Laboratory, Elbeyli Family Health Center, 5 family health centers, 5 family health centers, 5-bed Musabeyli Hospital, 50-bed prefab hospital, youth and culture center, closed swimming pool and gym, 2 synthetic grass surface football fields. By increasing the comfort and capacity of the dorms, we have increased our capacity from 432 to 2,390. We've got the land route network up to 128 kilometers. We've moved the divided road from two kilometers to 34 kilometers. We've increased PTT investments 52 times with $1.3 million. We paid 1,133 women with no social security. We provided support for 6,820 of our students and employed 181 disabled students. We provided $34.6 million for home care and rehabilitation. We've made 96 small-income citizens our homeowners. We've provided enough drinking water to last us until 2050. 13.1 million new saplings. TOKI pioneered 1,152 dwellings, 2 upper secondary schools, 6 elementary schools, 1 day care centre, 1 health clinic, 2 family health centers, 5 mosques, 2 trade centers. We covered 47 percent of the village road network with asphalt and concrete. We've done 500 miles of asphalt. We've raised agricultural support from 5.1 million TL to 18.7 million TL. We've provided $16 million in premiums. We've raised animal support to a record level of $5 million. With a grant of $8.1 million, we've established 39 new agricultural industrial facilities. With 1,927 new machine equipment, we've provided $8 million in grants. We've provided 20 co-ops with $20.2 million in loans. We introduced the church to natural gas. We spent $5.7 million restoring foundation artifacts. We've opened the wastewater treatment plant. Mr. President, the current investment projects include the Polyteli-Shakinbey Testil İhtisas Organised Industrial Region Project, Musabeyli, Upper Afrin and Doğanpınar Dams, pond and irrigation projects, flood protection facilities, new prison, supervised Liberation Directorate Complex service building, Kilis-Gaziantep land road, Kilis-Hatay road, 115-bed hospital service facility, 112 call centers, sports halls, closed swimming pools, Tapu and Kastro building, 75-year-old production of the building, and an organic production of the Kilis-Gaziantep land road, and an organic production of the Kilis-Hatay area. Mr. President, we don't consider the services done so far enough. We continue to work with all our strength, day and night, for the welfare and happiness of our country, our nation, and our province. No stopping, keep working.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0007par0054	Thank you, Mr. Blackbird. Before we go on the agenda, I will promise 10 of our friends according to the 60th article. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0008par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, the bill known publicly as the law on student forgiveness law, is waiting to be raised on the commission, and the parliamentary motion given by me to investigate the problems of university students is being discussed here, and the chairman of the National Education Commission at that time promised students here, and he said, "Yes, in October, we will break this student amnesty law." After the 2011 student pardon law, about 200,000 of our students are currently looking at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in any way, such as health reasons, family reasons, non-responsibility. Isn't it a problem for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that 200,000 of our young people are left out of training knitting at college gates? Therefore, I'm calling from here to the ruling MPs and members of the National Education Commission: Let's not ruin the lives of our young people.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0007par0061	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0009par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. The events surrounding this Validebage Grove have been going on for three months, four months, the municipality of Skopjedar and the structures that have received the support of the government are out there seeking to destroy this forest. The people are standing there, so they have withdrawn from the motherland for the time being. They're trying to build a religious facility over 450 square metres in a 1,000 square metre area next to the Validebağ, and they're opening up construction. They come in at 5:00 a.m., no license, no sign, nothing, people are dragged by their hair. They're trying to build 600 square feet of religious space that shouldn't be less than 2,500 square meters. There are four religious sites within 500 meters of this area, no concentration center in the earthquake. We don't want a parking lot, we want a green area, we don't want any construction. ISBI reports negative, traffic reports negative, people report negative, seven courts continue...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0007par0066	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0010par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, there's something I'd like to draw the attention of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Yesterday, the Justice and Development Party, which had 312 seats, did not find enough of the meeting in the first round of roll call, and the second roll call came with 181 electronic votes, 3 compasses, and one of the three ballots was determined that a congressman of ours had both entered and voted electronically. Thus, this Parliament has suffered many painful days, perhaps related to the past, and so it happened in the past. Our friends can argue, but there is nothing to defend. If we have friends who can't get electronic votes and send out ballots, let them double in the field, let Turkey not represent the will of the people in the Grand National Assembly. The people's will is to be fooled by a vote or something. There's enough of a meeting here and...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0007par0071	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0011par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. There have been assessments of some of the proposals that have occupied public opinion for several days, coming to the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The Prime Minister said he would make some changes in the purpose of maintaining public order, especially when referring to the drafts on the judiciary and security. Now, at the point of this public order, everyone, especially after the events of October 6-7-8, agrees. However, it is also very important to maintain this public order, which centre, which source, will use authority. We are a political party that believes there will be no authority other than state authority. According to today's newspapers, there have been journalists who have been identified by soldiers, police and Kurdistan Workers at a short distance. Mr. Prime Minister should also stress that this authority will not be another authority other than state authority, and should work for it, make an effort for it, I think. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0012par0077	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0013par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. On October 18-21, in Gülnar district of Mersin, the wind speed was described as 84 km/hours -- when we looked at the official body of the state as data from the forest and meteorology. TARSIM, who was founded by your government in your day, responsible for paying the farmer's damages, did not report the wind's speed as 35 km/hours, and did not go to pay the farmer's losses because it was under 62 km/hours. I'd like to express my expectation of sensitivity by your government on this matter. Again, in Mersin Erdemli district, the beautiful-South-South-Saradun-Kyrobalı road route route has been taken into the road network, and the Minister of Transport has agreed to join the investment programme in 2015, to unite Mersin (Syrian) with Karaman (Karaman)...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0014par0083	Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0015par0085	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The road between the Bell-Thanakkale, which began and returned to the snake story 14 years ago, has been through many years, but has still not been completed, despite statements and statements by authorities that it would be finished in 2013. The last state of the Bell-Chanakkale, Bell-Biga road, which began 14 years ago, is especially expected by the public when it will be finished. Also, is it considered to make the road to the Bell-Bayramic-Ezine land that was fought in the Battles of Çanakkale and was not dealt with after that? That's been promised during every election, but in no way is it handled after the election. Are you planning on putting him on the show? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0016par0089	Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0017par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. The campaign period for sugar beets producers throughout Turkey has begun. In my constituency, Kastamon, our producers also deliver their sugar beets to their factories. However, this year, sugar rates are very low in both my region and other cities, including other sugar beets producers. The reason for this is that both climate and sugar beets producers over time did not treat the disease that occurred on the leaf of sugar beets. Therefore, our farmer will suffer a severe victimism at the point of the purchase of product prices. He thinks it's important that the Ministry of Agriculture should do the necessary work on this and at least project the base price application to all the producers, and it's important that we announce that it's important that our farmers' victims be compensated.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0016par0093	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0018par0095	Thank you. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, there's a serious pollution of information on food and animal imports in public. Does the government intend to clarify? Is it going to be this import that's going to put the little feeder in a very difficult position, that's going to seriously hit our livestock, or isn't it? Have some major corporations been promised this, or not? If imported, what countries and how much livestock will be imported? In addition, in 2014, in our country, what happened, how long did it happen to recollette barley and wheat? Are we able to meet our needs in these strategic products? How much barley and wheat did the Earth crop office buy from our farmer at this time, and how much money did he pay for it, do we need imports? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0019par0099	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0020par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, right now we have 14 friends from the Justice and Development Party in Parliament, 23 from the Republican People's Party, 15 from the National Movement Party, 4 from HDP; 58 MPs from the Parliament. 58 people attend to work at the location of 550 MPs. It's a huge waste. I'd like to ask the Speaker to consider this matter immediately. A second issue: In our province of Skopjedar, the court has decided to stop the execution, but the government insists that it does not comply with the court's rulings. Article 2 of our Constitution: the state of the Republic of Turkey is a state of law. Please, we are waiting for power to act within the borders of the Constitution, and we demand the removal of those TOMAs in Validebage Grove. We ask the citizen to abandon the green field. My respects.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0021par0105	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0022par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary Taner, I just saw Yildiz here. I wanted to ask that question for him, but I think he left. In his statement to a newspaper, the thermal power plants should be established in the area of coal deposits. Is the thermal power plant to be built in Bursa Demirtaş Organised Industries, the DOSAB, in place of coal sources? Is there coal resources under the Dolphin and DOSAB? I'd like to learn that from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0023par0110	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Taking attention to breast cancer, whether at risk or not, we provide and propose the need for the opening of Parliamental research, in order to determine and determine the reasons for the growing prevalence of breast cancer, including raising awareness of all women and implementing early diagnostics for this purpose. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] The most common type of cancer in women is breast cancer. The proportion is estimated by MEMEDER, the Breast Health Association, at 24.1 per cent, with emphasising that there is no comprehensive work in this area, and there are no certain statistics. Therefore, it is often said that long-term monitoring and a community-based breast health screening program are needed. However, this programme, which has found life in many countries, seems to not yet exist in Turkey. Such a program, however, will prevent dozens of women from dying every year for lack of knowledge about breast cancer, impossibility, and lateness for treatment. In particular, most women who live in rural areas have been observed to go to the doctor only when the disease comes to the killing stage. The creation of a community-based scanning program will save women a great deal of that risk. The city centers should begin and periodically scan all districts, villages and towns. For this, local governments must be tasked and responsible for the implementation of the project, all elements that will facilitate the implementation of the programme, especially the municipal health departments. With healthy statistics, the size and scope of breast health and problems in Turkey will be revealed, early detection will be possible, the solution to this health problem will be easy, and death rates will be reduced. In this sense, a community-based scanning program must be created immediately. According to studies, 3/4 of the women who go to the doctor on suspicion of breast cancer apply to a doctor because of a public presence in that area. In the breast health scan programme, details of women at risk will be taken, physical examinations will be conducted by the physician, free mammography and free ultrasound if necessary. Educations, conferences, seminars, and trainings will be provided for women with the ability to perform breast examinations on their own. After lung cancer, breast cancer, the world's highest prevalence, can be seen not only in women but also in men. Since there is no regular breast cancer registration program in Turkey yet, its exact frequency has not been determined. In research conducted by some universities, 20/100 in Eastern and Southeast regions. 000 and 40/50/100 in the western regions. It's suggested that there's a frequency of 5,000. The same study also focused on the possibility of this regional difference related to education, cultural, economic reasons, examination and mammography, menopause clinics and public priorities. The lack of general surgeons, pathologists, medical oncologists, radiation oncologists, and distribution across the country are not proportional to populations in every city in Turkey, preventing breast cancer cases from finding early diagnosis and treatment. The number of medical oncologists in Turkey is particularly low. As a result, medical arrangements must be made for everyone who is at risk of breast cancer to get early diagnosis and treatment on time. To that end, the Society-based Scan Program must be created. At the same time, conditions for regular registration of cancer patients should be created for implementation of standard and modern treatment and monitoring programmes. We offer the General Assembly's appreciation for the creation of a research commission in parliament to determine the extent of the needs in this area and to determine the necessary measures. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On the request of the arrested Mardin MP Gülser Yıldırım, I respectfully announce the opening of the Constitution's "Meclis investigation" on the grounds of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, which allowed hundreds of people to enter the prison with their testimony as confidential witnesses from almost all TK operations since 2009, following the request of the arrested Mardin MP Gülser Yıldırım. In recent years, even though it's against the law, in almost all political cases, the "secret witness system" has been systematically implemented. The principle of transparency, one of the preconditions of a fair trial, is completely disabled by this application. In Hakkari, where there have been intense arrests since 2009, a letter from Mus Prison registered as a confidential witness is a statement that would destroy people's trust in the legal system and the principle of justice in our country. M.E. The last time was on July 27, 2012, Van 3. In his trial at the High Criminal Court, he stated that the Game Breaker code was his and that his testimony was completely unrealistic and police-forced. These are the following statements in the person's letter: "I was taken into custody in Hakkari in 2009. I've been subjected to threats and blackmail from two police officers, Murat and Şahin, at the TEM Branch. I agreed to be a confidential witness because I was afraid. Among those who put pressure on me was the Hakkari Prosecutor. After that, I made statements about a lot of people, but as none of my statements were true, they were all prepared by the police." "I testified on people I didn't know, people I didn't know, and Kurdish politicians. In fact, they were all those who wanted to arrest Hakkari police and could not find evidence to arrest them. I've been manipulated by conspiracies for these people. After I signed such dishonor, I lost my temper in the limitlessness of being brought down and slandered some of the people I knew. I did all this in exchange for being tortured, arrested." he added: "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, "I was arrested, first sent to Van F Type F, then to Mush Type E Prison. Every day in prison, when I thought of my dishonor, my psychology was broken. That's why I wrote a petition to the court and told them I'd given up the law of regret and the secret witness. After my petition to the court, there's a hearing. I was referred to as Van Courthouse. When I went to court, Van Special Prosecutor D. Y., Van 3. High Criminal Court Judge B. K. And 4. The High Criminal Court Judge -- the judge whose name I don't know but know is painful -- spoke to me. They asked me to accept the statements that were signed to me at Hakkari P.D. and not to give up. They threatened me and my family would be in trouble otherwise. But I didn't agree, I refused the statements. Shortly thereafter, they carried out their threats and arrested my two brothers and put them in prison. Although a brother who was in prison was a member of the organization, he was charged with "being a member of an organization" in a completely illegal manner, although he had no interest in it. This was the result of threats to put my family and me in a difficult position, as the official judicial courts say. M.E.' allegations also show concretely how the application of covert testimony was developed, indicating that the arrest of people arrested every day was a scenario based on confidential witness testimony. It's not legal practice to make witnesses of people with intimidation and blackmail. It also undermines the sense of justice that there is no investigation into anyone about such an important claim that could lead to a major political and judicial crisis in democratic law states. A parliamentary investigation must be opened to determine the damage caused by the public's distrust of the law, the punishment of those responsible for the crime, the implementation of secret witnesses and the damage caused by this system. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully ask and ask that our country be opened under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution in order to determine the measures that need to be taken in this regard by researching the manpower and professions that will be needed in the coming period. 09/10/2012 1) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] [[Kastamon]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Lug]] 11) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Inconceived]] 13) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Elizipt]] [[Inconceived]] [[Scholarship]] [[Yozgat]] [[Samsun]] [[Erzurum]] [[Kütahya]] [[Sakarya]] [[İstanbul]] All over the world, manpower is the engine or determinator of development in every period of history. In other words, it is a part of the population of a country that can produce goods and services. The concept of manpower is different from the concept of "work," which at any given time refers to the actual working part of the country's population. Manpower planning is a process of providing manpower, an economic resource needed by economic and social development at a time. Taking measures to improve human power activity, such as hiring, training, promotions, internal transfers, overworking and controlling, technology level, business order, education, and behavioral factors. The basis for public workforce planning can be achieved by providing proper time and place use of appropriate personnel by improving their qualifications through service courses. It's possible to divide manpower planning into macro and micro-manpower planning. Manpower planning in a macro sense is made to determine and achieve the quantity and quality of the workforce needed by the country's economy. To achieve success with this plan, - The detection of manpower demand and supply, Public personnel need to be employed at their place, and they need to be aimed at boosting efficiency. Micro-power planning aims to carry out personnel employment in accordance with the goals and duties of the institution and the institution and its institutions, and to obtain more efficiency from staff than from other sources, even from them. Human power planning is also required as a short term (up to a maximum year), long term (for one or three years) (usually five or ten years). This will allow the concerned public organisation to know its labour force material while carrying out its duties with its goals. Today, however, many of our young people from many professions have been unemployed, without such planning for a long time in our country. Therefore, in order for our country to carry out its responsibility in this area, a parliamentary research commission must be established in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution, in order to determine the measures that should be taken in this regard, as needed by the country's manpower and professions in the coming period. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Under the Italian Council of Europe, the Joint Foreign and Security Policy and Common Security and Defence Policy, which will be held in Rome on 5 November 2014 in the capital of Italy, is presented to the Inter- Parliamentary Conference; under Article 9 of the General Assembly on the participation of Foreign Commission President Ahmet Berat Konkar and Tokat MP Orhan Süp, 28/3/1990, and of the International Assembly of Turkey, under the 9th Article of the 9th Amendment. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Thursday (23/10/2014), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 17 October 2014, the group was awarded by the Deputy Chair of the Bingol MP Idris Baluken (867 rows no. lu) has been proposed to be read in the presentations Thursday (October 9, 2014) in the 23/10/2014 Unification of the National Assembly for armed assault on the Bingol County Police Director and his team and two hours later to investigate the screening of a vehicle at the entrance of the Youth District." The first word in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal is Mr. Idris Baluken. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0024par0261	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our group's motion. I salute you all. First of all, I have to say that the current policies of Kobani (Kobani), which have given time to the AKP's solution process, have, unfortunately, brought the country into a very tense environment and a crisis over the past few weeks. I especially want to say that in this tense environment and in the crisis environment, there are some dark centers and forces that want to act on impact mechanics are looking for opportunities, and they're taking over. I'd like to give you all the attention from here that these dark centers and forces that want to direct coup mechanics are most likely to be the province of Bingol, the geography of Bingol, where they're currently operating. In the past few weeks, before I express my opinion on the matter, the assassination of both the police commissioner and the death of four of our citizens, who have no connection to this incident, the young one, has been executed without a trial, and in the last two weeks, I hereby declare that all of the cases of the loss of the lives of our citizens in Karliova County have been a dark provocation. I'd like to draw your attention to the history of Bingley. Bingol must be seen as a geography, where deep structures and dark centers have been at work since the past. I want to say that I think that as the center of many dark events that have been put into place in the past, many dark planning, many Gladio-style organizations, and especially when the solution is neared, I think that Bingley should be dealt with seriously. In the past two weeks, what I've been talking about, I'd like to say again, is that it should be considered by someone to be a sign that we're looking at for bigger events that are likely to develop. Bingol is clearly chosen as a center now. It's very dark countertops that are wanted, and I'd like to emphasize again that many plans for the democratic future of the country are being sabotaged, especially with the countertops that these dark centers want to bring in. In particular, I would like to share with you what was planned for our two citizens who died in Karliova, who died in the last two weeks: as you know, in the 1990s, a bloody reckoning that led to great suffering, a reckoning that brought the Kurdish people's agenda, a bloody reckoning that would again be put in place with the events of Karliova. In meetings with all the components of the Kurdish movement on this subject, I want to make it clear from here that they never wanted the ground of conflict between HUDA PAR or its environment, that they were not involved in such a strategy, that they wanted to see the SODA PAR as part of the problem, not as part of the solution. Again, in the same light, I present to you from here that the central executives did not want such a conflict, but that a bloody reckoning that would go back to the 90s would harm everyone. Thus, it is clear that while both sides have their views on this issue and traffic between the two parties is being conducted, the fact that the executions have been established, particularly a new period of conflict that will spread through Bingol. The same M.O., the tools used to jog memories of the 90s. In this regard, in a small place such as Karliova, the attackers shake their hands and run away immediately, raiding the homes of BDP executives simultaneously, events are wanted to be connected, connected, and in light of that, especially the HUDA PRAR, where almost all of the families who lost their lives were chosen carefully and carefully. I mean, I want to stress that we're dealing with very professionally planned events all over the place. Now, it's clear that even from this fraction that I'm just talking about, the Council needs to look into the depth of this case, the need to take initiative so that a commission doesn't have to set up for bigger things to happen. Now, about the assassination of the Chief Constable and four of our citizens who were executed without a trial in the youth. We told him on the first day, and everything we said on the first day was true. We have stated that these two events are not related, that all of these information must be passed on to the public from existing MOBESE records to the ballistic examinations of cell phones. At the time when we said these things, unfortunately, the Prime Minister of this country, our security forces were punishing these terrorists within an hour or two. In the same way, the president found those who made this despicable attempt and said that our security forces had given them the punishment they deserved. You are also familiar with the statements made by the Ministry of Interior, the Governorate of Bingol. Now here we call it Hodri Square. If you've made these statements with such confidence, then come and explain what information, what data you have on the connections to these two events in this House. We know for sure that these two events are completely unrelated, independent, and we're dealing with a conspiracy that neither one of them has done yet to be revealed. Look, let me explain to you some contradictions about this Bingol incident. On the first day, we were told that the vehicle that assassinated the Chief Constable was the same as the vehicle that was executed without trial in the youth. It turns out these two cars had nothing to do with each other. At that time, the Chief of Security visits the shop where the windows are broken. It was said in the governor's statement, the Ministry of Interior's statement. A lot of local data came out on that street that there wasn't a single incident, that there wasn't a single shop where a single window was broken, that the Commissioner was taken there consciously at that time. The weapons were the same, the weapons seized in the youth and the weapons used in the assassination were the same, ballistic analysis revealed that these weapons were completely separate. The identity information of the four people who were said to have died in Bingol Governor's office was all wrong. Ali Bozan's family, who were shot in this vehicle -- Ali Bozan who was a civilian officer at the National Education Directorate -- shared with us information that Ali Bozan had been on the phone with them 45 minutes after the assassination, and that he had nothing to do with it. However, for three whole days in Bingol, there was an example of unlawful conduct, and the law was suspended. All those taken into custody were severely tortured. As a result of these tortures, some of our party friends were detained and had to be operated on. None of these people who have been operated on have been interviewed by their lawyers or their families. This incident was meant to pile up on those people. These people still have two arrests, and our friends in these two arrests aren't even allowed to meet their parents and lawyers properly. Although we have expressed all this, neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Ministry of Interior have sent a delegation to Bingol to investigate these matters. The background of events... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...has never made an effort to expose him. Therefore, this Parliament must do what the government does not. The Parliament must immediately appoint a commission and send it to Bingöl to carry out the background of all the events in Bingol. It means that it is necessary for both the pain of our democratic future and the absence of greater provocations, and I offer all of you with respect.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0025par0278	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal, Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0026par0282	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's National Movement Party following a motion to investigate the incident involving the police chiefs and police officers who were killed in the terrorist attacks of the Turkish nation, HDP Group in Bingley. I salute your high council. On October 9, 2014, Bingöl Police Commissioner Atalay Ürker and his associates and police officers were assassinated, apparently premeditated. Deputy Chief Constable Atef Şahin and Hüseyin Hatipoğlu were killed in the incident, Atalay Ürker and police officer Uğur Adlı were injured. On this occasion, I would like to repeat my wishes of healing to our wounded Chief Constable, Atalay Urker, and to police officer Uð Adlı, and to our martyrs from the great Creator, that their place may be a paradise. According to the authorities after this incident, those identified as the perpetrators of this attack were killed in a conflict with security forces at a point between Bingol-Young. We're all aware that the investigations are ongoing, that there's a court order and a gag order. It is very important that the members of the terrorist organization who attacked our police with guns, killed them, injured them, were punished. As the National Movement Party, we sincerely want and will follow this sentence within the law. For that, we think the outcome of the trial should be expected. Like everyone else, we wait for a judgment call. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, it is imperative that we consider how a terrorist organization, who made a tradesman's visit, who was able to launch such a close-up attack on the mayor and his team, who had been hurt by some terrorist acts, who had been hurt by the tradesman. The terrorist organization PKK has been targeting our peace, national unity, territorial integrity and brotherhood law for over 30 years. For 30 years, the terrorist organization has been responsible for the murder of nearly 40,000 of our people, especially our innocent Kurdish people. The aim of this terrorist organization is independent united Kurdistan. I fought with God, and I defeated him. Let's kill him, let's be the authority." It is ruled by the baby killer in Imralı, who is a savage enough person to say so. If you think that the organization has slaughtered more than 400 babies in the East and the southeast during these 30 years, the extent of violence will become clearer. Let's kill, let's be authoritarian. His basic strategy was that the government would take stricter measures as the organization carried out the attacks. He was computing that the people facing the state, which had taken intensive measures to prevent terrorism, would slip to his side. He wanted to eliminate the national union and social peace by bringing the family of every terrorist who was neutralized with the family of every fallen Mehmetçik. For 30 years, the organisation never gave up its strategies with this goal, but the most unfortunate period for the Turkish nation of 30 years has been the AKP's rule for the last 12 years. From 1999 to 2005, after the prison of the baby killer in charge of the terrorist organization, the organisation had entered a serious dissolution process, was defeated, and began to argue about leaving weapons. However, the AKP's project, along with its outside partners, has brought us to this day the understanding of negotiating with the organisation. The PKK terror organization, which has not given up its arms, who has not said it is sorry, but continues to threaten the state and the Turkish nation, is negotiating with the AKP government on the one hand, while continuing its acts of terrorism on the other. As part of the betrayal process launched at a meeting at the Police Academy in 2009, the killer with blood on his hands entered Turkish territory with drums and zurna. Regret law has been enforced in mobile courts for terrorists who do not say they regret it. From that day on, all the arrangements the PKK's terrorist organization has requested have been made. In the Anti-Terror Law, in the penal code, in the municipal law, in the education laws, the AKP has also done what it wants by implementing this Assembly. The AKP's so-called peacekeeping process is not coming within this period of term, called "acclim" (apocalypse). • The PKK is distracting the community with its rhetoric while the terrorist organization is recruiting, taxing, implementing identity control with its law enforcement teams, taking action in Turkey's every Geography -- when it needs to be done -- when it needs to be done. (ÇT/TK) So the PKK is becoming an authority, building its own order. AKP governments are trying to present this painting to society as a success and gain political credit. Before each election, the agreement between the AKP and the PKK has been halted, the operations have been halted, the acts of terrorism suspended. Antrparanthesis, we're about to enter the same atmosphere before the 2015 elections. As the joint initiative between the AKP and the PKK continued, the events that took place on 6 October 7 and 8 October 2014 showed that the initiative was bankrupt, as anyone with a mind and a conscience could see. It has been seen by everyone who has been spoiled by permission from the AKP governments that the PKK has tried an uprising in Turkey as an excuse for the Ayn-El Arab conflicts. The original directive was given by the baby killer in Imralı. The order was repeated by HDP executives as an excuse for the Kobani conflicts. In many cities, there was corruption, loss of life and property. 38 of our people have lost their lives, hundreds have been injured. These events have shown that there is only one language that the terrorist understands, and if you don't speak it, the terrorist will hurt you. Mr. President, honorable MPs, the PKK is a terrorist organization. Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) is the branch of TK construction in Turkey. The PJAK is the branch of TK construction in Iran, and the arm in Iraq is the PCDK and the arm in Syria. The issue of assistance to Kobani (Kobani), who has been making a U-turn, aside from what Erdogan and Davutoglu have been saying these days, is to help PKK. The PKK is an ISIS terrorist organization. All of these are equivalent. The government and Recep Tayyip Erdogan say that today the PKK is on the same side as the PYD. More interestingly, Bezar Assad met with the AKP on the same side, saying he was with Kurdish groups. Now, as a fashion, so-called authors have appeared to write and comment, such as the victim of the PYD, who were persecuted by ISIS. The victim is not PYD or PKK; the victim is the Arab living in Syria, Iraq, Turkmen, Kurdish especially. If ISIS is a bad organisation because Islamist, according to these authors, the PKK is a good organization because it is secular, it is a flawed assessment. ISIS Vahabi is a terrorist organization, the PYD and the PKK are a Kurdish terrorist organization; they are both terrorist organizations, both of which are slaughtering our people. Therefore, let no one attempt to mock anyone's mind. As Nicolas Sarkozy put it, it is imperative to call the cat a terrorist organization, as the cat should be called a cat. The conflicts in Kobani, which were described as the cause of events on October 6-7-8, today, are in fact more because of the meaning of the PKK's terrorist organization than by the fact that something happened to the Kurdish people who lived there, they suffered. Kobani, along with the other two cantons, is a model of PKK's autonomous management. That's why the PKK is on its feet for Kobani. Kobani is important to the PKK because it is the city where the baby killer in Imralı went walking from Suruç to his lair in Damascus and is the residence of PKK terrorists in Syria. In Osmaniye, Hatay is the base of terrorists who carried out PKK actions and passed through Syria. The terrorist named Fehman Hussein is a Kobanian who is the perpetrator of the most severe actions within the PKK. The government, which is now assisting the PYD, is trying to trick society once again, in order to hide or excuse its help to the PKK. If you recall, Ahmet Davutoglu confessed at a meeting with the Akils last weekend how they deceived the Turkish nation. And now we're dealing with a new deception and deception. With these thoughts, we are in opposition to the advice of the HDP Group, and I salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0027par0299	Thank you. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group proposal, İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0028par0303	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Dear friends, first and foremost, I would like to express my condolences to all our citizens, who are 38, 42, and 46 according to the data of the Human Rights Association, who have died in the events that began on October 6th, which continued until October 12th. I'd like to ask the chief of police, police officer, and all the other wounded who are still being treated immediately. We have received a pledge in favor of the HDP Group's proposal, and we believe this proposal should be supported. All spokespeople of the Justice and Development Party said it was a dark event, a provocation. So, if there's a dark event, if there's a provocation, Congress should look into it. If you really believe that, we're ready, let's vote, let's form a House Commission together, and the House Commission will look into it. Now, we need to know how we came to be able to put all this aside -- that we support this commission proposal -- that is, what was the process before October 6th, and how it happened on October 9th in Bingley, and how it happened. I mean, why are we here? Dear friends, first of all, Kobane is the conscience of the Kurds and of the whole community, so it needs to be known, and it has to be our common conscience. As the president said, what does the president have to do with the president? It's our common conscience. What the Kurds are saying is that they're our relatives, our brothers, our relatives. Therefore, we should not be willing to let these citizens, these friends, these friends, these relatives, who are near us and are in danger of being subjected to the massacre of ISIS, a global violent organization. So where is Kobane? When you say, yes, it is my conscience, it is the conscience of the Republican People's Party, and it has to be the conscience of Turkey, but I'm telling you clearly it is not the conscience of the Justice and Development Party. And let me tell you this: on October 7th, when Mr. President spoke, his eyes burst with joy, and he fell to Koban with a expression of joy on his face. He said, "Kobane will fall." And then, in his speeches, his dear friends called us what? Now, if you call people to the street, if you provoke the street, you won't be able to round up the people on the street. Loud and clear. The President himself and then the prime minister and the spokesman of the Justice and Development Party are the creators of the street. As an observer of all these events, I offer my condolences to 42 of our citizens -- or 46 of our citizens -- and my condolences to the family of Yasin Börür., and my condolences to all our citizens. Look, dear friends, after two police officers died, after they lost their lives, what did Mr. President say: What will our police do against all of this? Is he still holding a shield? I'm sorry, but no one will advise us on this. There's no way our police or our soldiers can get in the way of the shield anymore. Our military and police will do whatever it takes. We heard Erdoğan's words in March and in Diyarbakir in 2006, and he said, "It will be done whether it is a woman or a child." And 10 people lost their lives. During the same Erdogan Travel events, my police had written an epic story, and 11 of our citizens had lost their lives. These are the citizens of this republic. So in making the street this way, this government and the president, who is the head of the administration in the first place, have a first degree responsibility, dear friends, in the first degree. So, if your heart is enough, if you really feel that you have no responsibility, let's set up a commission here in the House, let's look into these things -- there's a dark state, there's provocation. You can't avoid it. What happened then, dear friends? What happened then? The Minister of the Interior established the same sentences, and he will respond with the Minister of the Ministry of Interior. They said, more than enough... can a minister of interior make this statement, dear friends in the state of the law? What did Davutoglu say? They've been punished. Look, dear friends, your understanding is that they've been punished. Who gives punishment in the state of law, dear friends? Who'll give it to me? Will the police give it to you, or will they give you a fair trial in accordance with the laws of the law, dear friends? See, now, why these events took place... was an environment where a newspaper distributor was shot in Adana... where the former mayor of the Republican People's Party and his son died, another citizen died in Kızıltepe, and two of our citizens died in Karliova. Who did it work for? It worked for your security state, dear friends, your security state. Look, after that, you brought in a law proposal based on the principles of the security state and the police state. There's more in this government than there are in these rules than there are in those who don't listen. In a province like Bingol, at 9:15 p.m., which chief of police did he take to that meeting or to visit the tradesman? What intelligence did he go with at 9:15, dear friends? Let's ask ourselves, what intelligence did he go with? Do you know a place where there are shoppers at 21.15? Who sent him there? Those who have appointed them from where they are, they are the ones who planned the same action at 9:15 p.m., so it is clear. If you have the heart, if you have the courage, let's set up a commission in this House and investigate this dark event, if you have the courage. I'm asking you, why did the D.A. make a confidentiality decision, who you're hiding from, who you're hiding from, why don't you conduct this whole process transparently, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0029par0318	You're responsible for the deaths, the deaths.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0028par0319	Look, dear friends, I'm asking you, the author of all these events, you are the first to create these events, by your words, by your actions, by your transparent process, the President himself, the Prime Minister. Look, as a Republican People's Party MP speaking here, Kobane is my conscience, all our citizens there are my brothers, our people, all of them.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0030par0321	It's your conscience, isn't it? It's your conscience, isn't it?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0028par0322	A president cannot say, "Where is Kobane?" He's still talking from Latvia, and he says, "What is Kobane?" If Kobane is our conscience, the President will have his conscience, the Prime Minister will have his conscience, and you will have yours.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0031par0323	The conscience of individuals differs from the conscience of the state.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0028par0324	Dear friends, for the last time, at a meeting that Davutoglu attended yesterday...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0032par0325	Isn't Yasin Bör your conscience?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0028par0326	That's my conscience. At a meeting yesterday, Davutoglu said that I am Turkey's common conscience. I'm a common conscience. Soon after I said, Suat Eroglu, a director, was punched out of a union meeting by members of the same union and his eye was damaged and so on. Is it common conscience to punch people, dear friends? I also say that I have thrown six "tweet"s through Kobane, six, for the record, one of them is that the government's policies in favour of ISIS are encouraged by the failure to create a conscience partnership in Kobane.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0033par0329	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0028par0330	And then I read the five tweets that I threw out, so I could write them down: One: the matter of Kobane is a human, conscientious public honor struggle. ISIS is a global organization of jihad and violence. Two: The support for the light must be abandoned, the tolerance shown today. AKP must put up an effective fight against ISIS inside and outside. Three: Reactions to ISIS and AKP policies should not involve violence, but should be displayed by provocateurs who damage people's lives and property. Four: The attacks on the Ataturk sculptures are unicentred and aim to block the common conscience. Those who do should be exposed. Five: The best attitude for Kobane is that everyone in every environment is discreet about this process. It was because of my tweets that President Rize made me the target of Prime Minister Amasya. Here's the last thing I'm going to say: if you're going to tell me and my relatives... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...because of these threats, if any damage comes to my fingernail due to this aim, those who target me and the Prime Minister are responsible politically and personally. I've put it on the record, that's good enough for me, fellas. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0034par0340	Isn't Yasin Bör your conscience? Don't offer your condolences after Basra's been devastated.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0035par0341	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. The final word against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal belongs to Mr. Mehmet Ersoy. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0036par0345	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from our highly valued deputies, the People's Democratic Party on October 9th, on the research motion that our deputy police chief and a captain have been killed by his protection with our county commissioner. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, until I listened to Mr. Godkulu, I preferred to give a more calm, more reasonable, softening speech about what our government, our government, should do, what our government should do. Because, as said in the group proposal of the HDP (HDP), we will have nothing to do with blaming and even looking for criminals on the government floor based solely on visible information about a case that we think is primarily aimed at the solution process and smells of provocation, where we have seen it planned in all aspects. But, unfortunately, we still see these approaches with regret. Members of parliament, in the cases of Kobani in our country as an excuse, about 2,100 buildings and businesses were burned down, about 600 public buildings were burned down, over a thousand police vehicles, state vehicles, ambulances were burned down. Whatever you're protesting, whatever you're saying, you can support these protests, but in democratic countries, they're only acceptable if it's done in the measure the law allows. But instead of condemning people who wear a mask, wear a skirt, wear a skirt, who are vulnerable, defenceless, helpless, to be a man, instead of condemning the people who cause them to burn down, instead of making common sense that they will never face them again, the president said, "The criminal, the prime minister, said this too." If you call it that, we're not going to get anywhere. Kobani, isn't your conscience our conscience too? The conscience of all the Anatolians, but not only Kobani -- this is where we part -- Bayırbucak is our conscience, and Kerkuk is our conscience, and Mosul is our conscience, and Aleppo is our conscience. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Since we have all our conscience, Kobani is the only one in Kobani...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0037par0348	Go to Karate, then; now there is slaughter in Karate, and ISIS is slaughtering forces, and send them to Karate.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0036par0349	Dear Honey, please. ...we opened our hearts, we opened our hearts, we opened our hearts, we said, 'Come.' Whatever we did to Turkmen, what we did to the Arab, what we did to the Suryani, we did to Kobani. But for us, people don't just have to be Kurds to be valuable. For Kurdish to be valuable, it does not just have to be PKK, it has to be human. And for him, we opened the heart of Asia Minor to nearly 2 million Syrians, and opened his heart to all mankind. Dear friends, if you think about where the social events are going, without considering what the provocateurs can do to benefit from those mass actions, without considering the psychological and mass populations' crowds, the kobani has fallen, because we have heard the word, you can't prevent people from taking advantage of this crowd in an uncontrollably way. If your conscience were truly equal to 42 people, what if you had shown one percent of your concern for Berkin, to our child, to our meat-trafficking child, to our Yasin.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0038par0352	Didn't we?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0036par0353	You didn't, you didn't.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0038par0354	Anyone who doesn't, is a scoundrel! Anyone who doesn't, is a scoundrel! Just yesterday your president targeted Berkin, and he booed Berkin's mother.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0036par0355	We struggle to do what we must to make every citizen living in this country equal and fair, to live as the own son of Anatolia. Please, especially regarding the solution process, dear MPs, stop testing our sincerity. We want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it,
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0039par0356	We don't.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0036par0357	We don't want this blood flowing, we don't want these mothers crying. As an AK PARTY, we may have taken the biggest risk. It's easy to talk about the process of solutions in Bingley, Diyarbakır; I'm telling it in Sinop. I'm telling it in the Black Sea, about the brotherhood of Kurdish and Turk, about the unity of Anatolia, about how important the union is to us.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0040par0359	We tell it in the Silver House.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0036par0360	Why would we take that risk if we weren't sincere? We're the ones taking the risk, but we all have to give up street politics if we want to continue the solution process, if we want to do it this way, if we want to do it this way, if we want to do it this way. Whatever the language of the brotherhood requires, whatever the language of the law requires, whatever the language of mankind requires. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] He says, "Come to the street." So, how do we maintain public order? If everyone's going to act wherever they want, if they're going to perform wherever they want, if they're going to gather in the square, fill the streets they want, how are we going to defend the rights of those who don't participate in these demonstrations, how are we going to maintain public order, how are we going to secure their lives? If you want to exercise the right to democratic protest on politics, all of our political parties have the right to hold meetings, to march in the squares of demonstrations, why don't you use it in the middle of the night, in the middle of the day, in the middle of the day, in the middle of the day, by calling people out on the street? After that, we are not responsible for the deaths. The Prime Minister said, the President said this. Didn't you think these actions would be abused when my brother called these people to the streets in the middle of the night? Of course, someone who wants to provoke the process of solutions, who wants to provoke our brotherhood, our unity, will exploit it. Then, first of all, he has to pay attention to his political language. If we're looking for our brotherhood, if we're really hopeful and we're really sincere, please don't let him blow the bored whistle and encourage the public to go out on the street. These people want to live in unity, they want to live in unity, but they want to live in peace. Why do we condemn actions and events so much that we don't condemn those masked, well-dressed, manly frauds? Isn't that despicable? Is that humanity? They burn the government's mansions, they burn the ambulances, they kill the children who distribute meat, they throw them out of the third floor, they crush their heads with stones.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0041par0364	They can't get your name out of their mouths.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0036par0365	Shame on us, let us fear God, and let us all fear God. They're all our children, they're all the children of this country, they're all our people; let's all take care of them together. It is good when it is Kobanili, but it is bad when it is not the PKK. There's no such thing. He is also a man of this country, and he is a man of this country, and he is a man of this country, and he is a member of the AK PARTI, and he is a member of the CHP. We have to give them all the same value. So...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0042par0367	Aren't they MHP people?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0036par0368	Of course, my dear fellow, there's no need for any of this. We embrace all those in Syria with the same sensitivity, and we embrace our citizens in our country with the same tenderness. I'm not going to get into the technique of the Bingol stuff.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0043par0370	Don't go in there, you can't go in there, you can talk about anything else.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0036par0371	Mr. Bauken, I've spoken to the governor and the chief of police. For example, there's a two-hour difference. You say there's a half-hour difference between the two events. Dear brothers, dear friends, in the first freshness of the incident, in the heat of the moment... imagine that the police chief was assassinated downtown... when it was planned and there was no doubt a provocation... a half-hour later, while a road check was being made on Young Road... someone stopped and opened fire on you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0043par0373	Is that normal?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0036par0374	Now, with the heat of this incident, there may be some inconsistencies, some inconsistencies, but we must never cause a perception, as if by someone's blinding it.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0044par0375	Why? You're shouting parallel, parallel, from morning to evening.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0036par0376	Today all departments of the government -- in effect, with their administration -- are doing all kinds of research, and they have to do it. The law has already made a confidentiality decision. It's not right to set up a research commission in the process, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...if we're not satisfied, if we're inadequate, a commission can be established when necessary, and I say I'm against the proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0045par0380	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0046par0381	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0047par0382	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0045par0383	First, Mr. Godkulu stood up.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0046par0384	Sir, the speaker has also taken my name and twisted my words. I want to speak according to Article 69 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0045par0385	Here you go. I usually decided to follow the speakers and pick on them, but then, you know, there were deep objections, so that you'd listen to the individuals, I'm following that instruction now.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0048par0387	What did he object to now?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0049par0388	When you say deep...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0045par0389	And by deep, I mean all of you, the lawmakers. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0050par0393	Dear friends, now that 42 of our citizens have lost their lives, we ask for God's mercy and condemn all this violence. In the 1980s, in the 1990s, I was a lawyer in Diyarbakir, I was a barmaster, I defended your rights, even in an environment you didn't dare; okay, I did it.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0051par0394	We were doctors at that time, sir, when you weren't going out on the street, and we were looking at patients, and we were looking at patients while you weren't going out of the bar.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0050par0395	And at that time, I opposed violence, not today, not today. All this violence, look, I condemn all this violence, but by taking shelter behind it... look, you're going to create it first, then you're not going to govern it, and then you're going to draw political conclusions from it, okay, you're going to draw political conclusions from it.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0052par0396	Who called you on the street?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0053par0397	Who called you on the street?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0050par0398	This political outcome is working for you, look, dear friends, it's working for you. You're making a security state out of it, a police state out of it.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0054par0399	Did we call him to the street or did we?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0050par0400	We, look, we say that we have resisted persecution of the oppressed, the Suryans, the Turkmen, and all the citizens of Syria and Iraq, all the peoples.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0055par0401	Where did you object?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0050par0402	All of them, all of them, look, we opposed them, we opposed them all at once.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0056par0403	You're just saying that, you're just saying it, you're saying it for the first time.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0050par0404	We say it all the time, all the time. While your Prime Minister Assad was signing 94 signatures with Assad, we were against Assad. Let me show you some pictures, he's got his hand in his hand. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Dear friends, so, look, you can't teach us human rights, you can't teach us democracy, you have to eat a thousand meals, let's say that first. Dear friends, it is the Justice and Development Party's Government who cannot rule this country. You're responsible for the last 39 days. Look, the President of this country is the subject of cartoons in the New York Times. Aren't you ashamed!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0057par0409	You should be ashamed, you! You should be ashamed!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0058par0410	Shame on you, you!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0050par0411	Aren't you ashamed, your President? Aren't you ashamed?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0059par0413	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0050par0414	Look, they're drawing a cartoon in a skirt! Shame! You've got so many spinning, so many twisted foreign policy concepts, you've carried that conflict in foreign policy into Turkey.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0059par0417	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0050par0418	Turkey hadn't had a major conflict in thirty years, and now you've brought in the worst of the conflict, and you're trying to build your own security state. Shame! Just, look, shame on you and shame on you!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0060par0419	Shame on you! You should be ashamed of all the tweets you've thrown away!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0050par0420	Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0060par0421	You should be ashamed of those tweets!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0061par0422	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0062par0423	Mr. President, speaking on behalf of the EC PARTY, the speaker has accused the deaths of linking our party's street call, and I'd like to answer it.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0060par0424	Do your friends at your party take care of those tweets? Mr. Sesame, do you agree with those tweets?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0063par0426	Don't interfere with us!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0060par0427	I agree. Can you say that?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0064par0428	The President-General has given his answer.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0065par0429	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0066par0431	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0067par0433	Half that party is against your tweets!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0068par0434	I feel like the class president.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0067par0436	Half the people in CeHaPe are against your tweets!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0068par0437	Mr. Kaçir...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0069par0438	There's no need for rudeness! Don't be rude!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0068par0439	Dear Godkulu...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0069par0440	Don't let him get nasty!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0070par0441	Get out of here! I'm telling the truth, I'm not being rude!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0071par0442	He's insulting our president here.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0072par0443	My esteemed friends, members of lawmakers, a group of vice presidents are waiting on the stand. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0073par0445	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've handled a particular cross section of the Kobani events specifically, and I've made some indications from this specific cross section that we might be able to reach a conclusion on all of them. We have motions to investigate what happened in all the Kobani protests, and we're going to bring those research proposals here, and we're going to ask for backup. Now, if you think that you have no responsibility for the deaths, if you think that the responsibility for these deaths is in a center, why are you avoiding setting up these commissions? You didn't bring in a single piece of data, a single objective document on the Bingol case. I've clearly expressed all the events here with the data. Look -- since time is poor -- there are seven calls made by HDP (HDP) on these Kobani events until that day. We've already called all the people to the street long ago, and they're all over the border. You didn't follow them? We tried to resolve the matter by talking to the government over and over again through politics before that call came from the MYK. And because it was not solved, because our brothers and sisters there were in danger of slaughter, because women were in danger of barbaric, rapist gangs, we called our people to the street -- we did not call them in violence -- we called them again today. It is the most honorable call the HDP has ever made. If Kobani were in the same danger today, HDP would make the same call. We're a party that uses the street. Burn it down on the street, engage in violence, do something different. If there's a sign in there, it's done. But using the street is the most democratic right of a political party, especially if it doesn't have political results, it certainly does that on every platform. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In particular, we advise you to carefully examine the statements made by your authorities, so that you can understand how things got there in Kobani. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0074par0453	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting on Thursday (October 23, 2014), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. The meeting of Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz (10/364) and his friends (10/364) in the part of the agenda of the Grand National Assembly for General Assembly's discussion and Parliament's Review of Parliaments was proposed on Thursday (October 23rd 2014) in a joint session of our Council of Ministers (now) in order to determine the measures to be made, including the problems of sugar beets and sugar production. In favour of the nationalist Action Group's proposal, the first statement is from Mr. Sadir Durmaz of Yozgat MP. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0075par0472	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the group's proposal as the National Movement Party to determine the measures to be taken, including the problems of sugar beets and sugar production. I hereby salute the grand jury. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are also involved in agriculture, medicine, meat, milk, transport, and service sectors, as well as 3 million farmers who provide their livelihood for the production of sugar beets and sugar beets in our country. The sugar beets are a plant that connects the farmer to the field and to the village, allowing all members of the family to work and work, all of the byproducts are considered, as well as an important role in increasing the value of addition in many sectors with inputs used in the production and processing period. According to sunflowers, alternative agricultural products, 5 provides 20 times more employment than wheat, and 2 times more machine agriculture is possible than wheat and sunflowers. Precious lawmakers make up 25 per cent of sugar production in the world, beet sugar, 75 per cent cane sugar. The cost of straw sugar is 40-50 percent cheaper than beet sugar, due to the ease of processing and the ability to harvest sugar cane several times a year. So sugar prices in the world are determined by sugar sugar sugar. Beets are produced near all European Union countries. These countries do not give up the production of beet candy, even though they can afford cheaper sugar. This is also because of the value and health value that beet agriculture and industry provides for their country. Serious quotas are being applied in Europe concerning starch-based sugar, and are monitored by all public opinion that the use of this sugar is harmful to your health. However, there is a high level of starch-based sugar use in our country. Around 720,000 tonnes of starch-based sugar quotas are earmarked in the European Union, with an estimated 500 million inhabitants, while Turkey, with 77 million populations, is earmarked for 250,000 tonnes of quotas. It will be understood that the European Union has been earmarked for about four times as many quotas as its European Union, given that this amount was implemented by increasing by the Council of Ministers' decision in each marketing year by 50 per cent. The AKP government has stated that it has been imitating the EU in everything under the name of EU integration efforts. It is not possible to find it clear that the government is acting contrary to the country's interests on this very important issue. Dear lawmakers, tens of thousands of workers are still employed in sugar factories in our country and hundreds of thousands of farmers are working on beet agriculture. From the most heavily used entries in sugar beets agriculture, fertilizer and diesel have recently increased, and our producers are no longer able to process their land due to input costs. Entrance prices have continued to rise, but beets purchase prices have remained at the same level for years. In particular, in recent years, our beet production has been greatly regressed because of AKP's wrong choices. Our sugar factories can't even complete their sugar production quotas. The reduction in beet production causes our factories to operate at a low capacity and therefore increase our sugar production costs. Our farmer's most important task should be not to give a bonus to political understanding, which has adopted policies to self-destruct and turn our country into another country's market, so the AKP policy that is trying to destroy it should certainly teach the required lesson in the polls. I'm sure I'll hear the AKP MP or the spokesman who's about to take the stand later, and I'm sure I'll hear him say, "If our farmer is so troubled, why is the AKP getting so many votes?" That is why our farmer must teach the AKP (AKP) a lesson in the chest.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0076par0477	He's always giving you the lesson.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0075par0478	Dear lawmakers, factories that produce beets in our country have been established for economic and social reasons. The factories that produce starch-based sugar were founded entirely on commercial expectations and personal decisions. The rights and interests of beet sugar factories that serve the economic development of the region and our country should never be held equal to the starch-based sugar factories based on personal preferences. In our country, sugar factories can't work at optimum scale because of starch-based sugar quotas. As a result of 15 per cent of the quota, the impact of the production of beet sugar has been 2,500,000 tonnes as of the last 11 years of marketing. Looking at the losses of our country over the past 11 years, it has not produced 2.5 million tons of sugar, has not been produced in 320,000 hectares of beet agriculture, has lost its job; 6.3 million tons and 800,000 tons of melas have not been produced, so there have been 200,000 tons of flesh shortage. The low capacity of the beet sugar industry has raised costs in its nature. The process of producing sugar during the AKP administrations has developed against beet producers, in favour of starch-based sugar producers. In his statement on the issue, Mr. Minister of Agriculture at the responsibilities said that sugar beets production costs are too high, saying sugar beets want too much water, and the cost of irrigation is too high, which means Turkey consumes the world's most expensive sugar. If a representative of the factory, based on starch, said that, of course, we can understand that, in order to protect his own interests, he makes such an assessment, but unfortunately, the Minister of Agriculture of Turkey says that. Mr. Secretary, why are the irrigation costs so high? Isn't it your job to reduce production costs, create competitiveness? Why is the energy price used in irrigation so high? The farmer who uses the world's most expensive entries at a high price is guilty? From the price you're paying the shipboys to the beet producer, let the cost go down, let the price go down, it's as simple as that. As minister, why are you making your citizen consume the world's most expensive sugar? And the next step you're gonna give up production because it costs a lot of sugar beets? Is that the kind of request you're going to make? However, the claim that the world's most expensive sugar was consumed in Turkey is controversial. Precious lawmakers, 88 officers, 611 workers, and the Yozgat Sugar Factory, which began production in 1988, produced about 400,000 tonnes of beets with the most quality and efficiency, contributed about 90 trillion lira per year to the region's economy. Today, for lack of ownership, 32 officers have become a factory based on privatisation with 315 workers, where production has come to a standstill. Sadly, 102 of our brothers who have worked as temporary workers at the Yozgat Sugar Factory for years have not been given a staff. Dear lawmakers, the problems of our beet farmers must be resolved: With the privatisation of TEDAS, our producers are having trouble watering agriculturally because of the high price of electricity, unable to pay electricity bills. The diesel is the farmer's lifeblood. However, during the AKP administrations, our farmer was unable to put diesel in his tractor. Our farmer who can't get his diesel in cash is in debt by the time limit. Due to this year's negative climate conditions, the prospect of low sugar rates has already left our beet producer with a anxious wait. Before I arrived here earlier, I met farmers from Yerköy, Bostuklıyan, Safaatli and Yenifakilı districts with many beets planted in Yozgat. They expect a price to satisfy that concern. In our opinion, the price to satisfy our farmer's concern should be at least $1.75 on a ton basis. As the National Movement Party, I would like to say once again that we are ready to give you all the support we can to address the problems that our farmer, beets producers and sector employees have experienced. On this occasion, I wish our farmers, who harvest their beets, plenty of profit, and with these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation once again.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0077par0486	Thank you, Mr. Durmez. Adıyaman MP Mehmet Erdogan, please come in.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0078par0489	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a solemn oath against the proposal of the MHP Group on behalf of the EC PARTY Group, and I salute you. It's a fact that beets are essential to our country. It's hard and difficult to deal with beet production. I'd like to thank all the beets farmers who deal with it and produce it and contribute to the country's economy from here once again. Although the number of planters has fallen, beets are at about 16 million 483,000 tonnes; in 2002, they are 16 million and 523 thousand tonnes; in 2013, the rate is 16 million and 483,000 tonnes, hopefully 17 million tonnes are expected in 2014. When we look at the fields that have been planted, we have a total of 291,000 hectares. Again, before the AK PARTI rule, the production was made in 372.468 hectares. The difference is... even if there is a miscarriage in the field produced in the AK PARTI administration, we are once again seeing the growth of fertility, efficiency, with the AK PARTY. There are over 130 million tonnes of sugar produced in the world each year, which is already one fifth of beets, and the rest is from sugarcane. The amount of sugar on foreign trade in international markets is around 50 million tons. The sugarcane is a low-cost raw substance, because it does not require irrigation because it grows in tropical areas, it does not require planting every year, as in beet beets, but it has a very low chance of competing with the sugar of beet in the world markets, not once every four or five years, for reasons such as taking products, not once or five times a year. The sugarcane is also the determinant of the world's sugar market prices because it is in a position that dominates the world's production and trade, as well as its cost is very low. Our country has held its position for years with its 8 per cent share in the world's production of beet sugar, followed by the European Union, the United States, Russia and France, and is ranked as the fifth in the world and fourth in the EU. In recent years, when food safety has become increasingly critical worldwide, in terms of basic food materials such as sugar, such as sugar producers, even though imports are cheaper than domestic prices, domestic production is the way to meet their demands, rather than importing them. The main purpose of the Candy Law, which took effect in 2001, is self - competency. As a result of activities, regulations and policies produced by the sector in order to achieve a competitive, sustainable structure, as well as the implementation of the Sugar Act established by the same law, the aims of maintaining sugar beets, sugar beets and nishasta-based sugar production in the sector have been achieved, such as providing and maintaining stability in sugar production, supply and prices. There are some misunderstandings that are often expressed on various platforms related to the quota system. At the beginning of these criticisms is the claim that the quota system restricts the production of sugar beets in our country and reduces the production of beets. In our country, sugar production capacity of 3.1 million tonnes is over 4 million tonnes, including beet sugar, 1 million tons of starch-based sugar. In recent years, our domestic sugar consumption average is around 1,800,000 tonnes. It is clear that our country's established sugar production capacity is above the need, and that sugar sugar sugar, which has no chance of competing with low-cost sugar, has limited export opportunities, and that negative publications on sugar are driving public to reduce sugar consumption, at the level of installed capacity or above domestic demand, is not sustainable. As a matter of fact, in advance of the Sugar Act, in the period of unstable production in particular the 1990s, the production of the beet price set by the Council of Ministers in the years in which the producers were attractive, caused a sugar supply problem, and in the years when the beet prices were not satisfactory, a large amount of importation was caused by the loss of our country's significant foreign currency due to the failure to meet domestic demand. In the EC PARTI administration, the average product per decarnated reached 5.66 kilograms, producing 2.2 million tonnes of sugar. As a result, beet and corn, which are the raw materials of sugar, are intended to be produced in the country, with enough sugar beets and starch-based sugar to satisfy our country's needs. Mr. President, the value of sugar beets is 0.10 cents in 2013; the price is 13 cents in 2012; 15 cents in 2013; the average price of 2014 is 146 cents in kilograms. The sugar company announced the average price of the 2013-2014 marketing year, 146 cents pounds. On October 11, 20th, 2014, the world's sugar price was $425/ton on international markets, while in Turkey, the price of crystal sugar is 2,500 euros/tons. The Agricultural Ministry supports and practices for agriculture: the sugar beets supports 7.5 lira diesel for 2014, 7.5 lira fertilizer for an acre and 2.5 lira soil analysis for an acre. During the AK PARTI rule, total agricultural supports found 70 quadrillion, not just our sugar beets producers, but all our farmers showed once again that they were aware of the importance of the AK PARTI power to agriculture, to the manufacturer, by treating it as a stepchild before the AK PARTI power.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0079par0503	You're using the world's most expensive diesel. Do we live in another country, Mr. Mehmet?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0078par0504	With our support, I express that we are always with our people, our farmers, and I salute you with love.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0080par0506	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. In favor of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, Mr. İlhan Demiröz. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0081par0510	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Movement Party's research proposal to determine measures by investigating issues related to sugar beets and sugar production. I salute all of you, all of you, our citizens, beet producers who watch us on television, with respect and love. I want to say how I should begin: I want our farmers here to evaluate the testimony that a friend of mine, a friend of mine, an AKP MP, had made a promise against sugar beets and sugar production as he began this issue. That's the AKP's agricultural policy!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0082par0514	Against the proposal of the MPP...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0081par0515	It's coming out, and the Commissioner for Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs says I've been promised against sugar beets and sugar production. Guys...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0083par0517	Because of the error of the Civil Charter, he said good things, not against it. He's not against it, or he won't get the wrong report.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0081par0518	Dear friends... no, no, the visible village doesn't want a guide. You let me explain.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0083par0519	Let's swap, and let's take out these ridiculous expressions in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0081par0520	No, no, the visible village doesn't want a guide because Mr. Erdogan spoke as a spokesman for the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting while using these statements. Because the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has never been there for farmers, farmers, producers, in any way, friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, in 2013, 85,700 producers in 54 counties and 2,644 settlements produced beets in 1 million 771,65 acres. That number, then, when we consider the Sugar Law and privatisations...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0084par0523	Mr. Ilhan, tell me if it's increased in our time or not.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0081par0524	Mr. Erdogan, I'll give you the numbers year after year. Unfortunately, from 492,232, we see the number that we have fallen today, where it is. The farmer has moved away from beets, beets, production. Why would he go away? He's gone because of the 7.5 lira diesel support you gave him. Mazota has increased 400 percent in your time, and you say it as support for diesel support.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0084par0526	Has the beet production fallen or has it increased?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0081par0527	You, unfortunately, take what you put in the farmer's right pocket from his left pocket. How do you take it? We farmers use 3.5 billion litres of diesel a year. Well, the VAT in the diesel, when you multiply the amount of OTV with it, you'll see that this number is going to be over 10 billion. Then, when you get out of here... our farmers who are listening to us can call you on the phone. They say, "Don't support us, drop the gas." I'd like to point out that they're not supporting him, that you're not supporting the pancara at all.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0084par0528	Has the beet production fallen or has it increased?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0081par0529	Friends, my predecessors expressed their views on sugarcane, sugar prices in the world's stock markets. I want to get to the point that there are 33 sugar factories in Turkey, including 25 public enterprises and 8 private sectors. You did privatisations with the Candy Law, then with the substrate for it, and some of these privatisations, 10 of them went back. We hope that these privatisations will not be done during the rest of the time. It's not made for: a university of information in sugar factories areas without industry, with agriculture there, social activities, movers, air. In this regard, I want to express in particular that these are very important. Then, I'd like to share the benefits of sugar beets in agriculture with you in very short headlines. With no burden on the state, the sugar beets farmer has given 170,000 hectares of rural farmland to watery agriculture with full credit investments. The government's income is worth $340 million. The spending per ton on sugar beets is 3.7 times less than wheat, 7 times less than sunflower, and in return, 3.3 times more than sunflowers in the unit area. Sugar beets agriculture allows 1.5 times more machines than wheat, 1.9 times more machines than sunflowers. It's very important that sugar beets are the main raw ingredient in the melas yeast industry, which is produced in the factory. The sugar beets provide 5.7 tons of cargo in the transport industry. The sugar beets also increase efficiency in the product that is planted after itself. Finally, the oxygen that one sugar beets photosynthesis releases into the air is three times more than the forest, capable of supplying a year's supply of six people. I'd like to say once again that you don't care about this sugar beets and sugar beets agriculture that is so important. Friends, Turkey has five starch-based companies and six factories. What's a starch-based sugar? Making sweetener out of Egypt. So, is our country fit for this? We're looking at the European Union -- these rates in the European Union: friends, for example, all sugar was provided from beets and not given a quota for starch-based sugar in France, while Germany, in the second place, was 2.5 per cent in Poland, although 3.2% in Poland, was 10 per cent in each year, and continued with an increase of 5 per cent. Do you guys know how far it went? During the 2013-2014 marketing year, the starch-based sugar sugar was increased by the Candy Board by 25 per cent on 24/6/2014. So you've increased the quota of 244,400 tons by 25 percent. What does that mean? It means ignoring at least 850,000 tons of beet production, which means you're going to make hundreds of thousands of families walk away. I'd like to brief you on two things here. When I gave this talk, my dear farm brothers and beets-planting friends from Burma called, and they said: "There is no price on beets at this time." Last year, 144 was given, and it went down to 139 euros. This year, the sugar on the sugar beets is very low due to climate conditions and diseases in the leaves. If the Sugar Board determines the quota of sugar factories over this point, if they don't give a price above that cost -- $135 TL/ton today -- we'll be completely out of sugar beets next year. Why? I want to make it very clear that when you give the price according to this sugar price in sugar beets, it will go down to, for example, $110 in Bursa. So I'd like to ask the National Movement Party to be above this price, if you know that with $175/ton, it will only cost the farmer to eat a soup in the morning. They also want our friends, our farm brothers, not to apply 16 or 14 dams to them, which had been bought in the previous years about this number of sugars. I mean, they say if they get the price according to the sugar ratio, if they give the price, we can't see ahead next year, and we can't plant beets. I wanted to tell you about Cargill about the starch-based sugar in the zone of Bursa, but I didn't have the time to answer to Mr. Erdogan. But about Cargill, believe me, I want to make it clear that what we say has come true. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to make it very clear that we're going to implement this motion on behalf of the MHP, because it's a motion in place and on time, Mr. Erdogan. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0085par0546	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0086par0547	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0085par0548	Mr. Erdogan, come in.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0086par0549	He made it sound like I said something I didn't say. I want to make that clear.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0085par0550	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0087par0551	No hard feelings, but probably because he mentioned your name.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0085par0552	He made a promise to fix it, no promises of bullying.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0088par0555	Mr. President, thank you. We've always been there for our beets makers and the Turkish farmer, and we'll continue to be there. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] I've explained some of the work we've done. The EC PARTY was the government that paid 70 quadrillion in total cash support to the Turkish farmer. Of course, the Turkish farmer will always support the AK PARTI power. Our farmer didn't forget the ones who lifted the fertilizer support for the Turkish farmer. Those who removed the diesel support, the ones who removed the loan seed support, the ones who did the IMF's orders, of course, didn't forget the Turkish farmer. But, in our time of power, we saw the Turkish farmer who was treated as a foster son as the good son of the economy, and we tried at this point.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0089par0560	The farmer's dying!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0088par0561	Not one of you has the heart, the courage, the bond of our love with the farmer, the relationship that we've had between us.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0090par0562	Don't give false information. You're giving false information. You're out to fix it, giving false information.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0088par0563	We've always told the truth, and we'll keep telling the truth. You've made it your art to say the words other than the truth.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0090par0564	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0091par0565	I mean, he's out to fix it, he's still doing the propaganda. Well, there's nothing we can do.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0088par0566	But our nation has always supported us. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0092par0569	Why did you increase the starch-based sugar by 50%?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0093par0570	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0094par0571	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0095par0572	Now, I'll give you my word...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0096par0573	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0095par0574	No, not for you. Mr. Irony, where did you come from?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0096par0575	Okay...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0095par0576	Now, Mr. Durmaz gets up first, we'll get him in line. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0097par0580	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Erdogan gave false information, as always, with a cliche that had become an AKP classic, with some fancy phrases.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0098par0582	It's not a cliché...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0097par0583	So today, let them read the 21st article of the Agricultural Law, which they issued in 2006.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0098par0584	We learned our lesson by heart. Look at you!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0097par0585	On your way out here, please, on purpose. In the 21st article of the Agricultural Law, you took it out in 2006, it says: "The support given to the farmer cannot be less than one percent of the illegitimate domestic. "
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0098par0586	We've passed 1 percent.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0097par0587	But you haven't been able to reach it until today. You've never been able to reach it, but by indirect numbers, by inflating it, you're saying you've given our farmer more support with a different assessment, as usual. Mr. Erdogan, the farmer's out of the mix, you don't know. If you'd like, I'd offer it to the Minister, and I'd like to offer it to you, so let's draw a draw. It's a beet harvest, let's go together. If the farmer believes in you or believes in me, let's consider it together. Are you in?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0098par0589	We've got things we've done, we've got things we're missing. We'll do it for all of them. Okay.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0097par0590	Look, I say we choose by choice. I'm telling all AKP officials, I'm telling all our deputies.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0098par0591	We're always there, with the people.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0097par0592	Look, all of us, for God's sake, let's tell the truth. Our farmer's in real trouble. Don't spare the resources you've transferred from our farmer. Our farmer can't go to his field, our farmer can't put diesel in his tractor, our farmer can't go to coffee, our farmer can't raise his child, make sure of that. The farmer can no longer easily sit on someone else's cushions and ask for a daughter for his son. Why? When he says, "What do you do?," he says, "I'm a farmer." He bends his neck. There's no money for tea in coffee in the farmer's pocket. You've gone too far from the farmer. You can't eat here without a farmer. Let's all take care of the farmer. Let's all support him. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0099par0595	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0100par0596	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0099par0597	Mr. Tanal, what's going on?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0100par0598	Dear President, Mr. Erdogan has just said that our farmer is pleased. The sale of the native seed is forbidden in Turkey. The sale of the Israeli seed is free in Turkey. The only way to get the native seed, those crops is to get our farmers to trade them. So, really, the AKP is hurting our farmer.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0099par0599	Thank you. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0101par0601	And he said, "Your heart is not enough for us." He said, "It's between us and the farmer."
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0099par0602	Oh, you'll say you've had enough.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0101par0603	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0099par0604	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0101par0606	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0099par0607	Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Now, there's a deal. You said, "Let's talk about it." Go ahead, after three speeches, it's a no-brainer. I wasn't going to order food, but I'm going to tell the kitchen now. We'll be here till 00, so let's have a good time. It's not believable to put words into words. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0102par0611	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friend just told me that you have no heart to come between us and the farmers. So I say, what's this research proposal from the nationalist movement party for? For beets and beets farmers. If your heart is strong enough, say yes. Let's all look into it. We have this heart, and we always put that heart in every environment, so please know that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Two: Mr. Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting is very good at passing numbers and doing flips; please do not come to the same game. I just told you that when you hit the VAT in the diesel, which is $4.67, with 3.5 billion litres of diesel per year, the farmer doesn't want your support because you're giving it here, you're showing 9 billion, you're only taking it out of his pocket with fuel, Mr. Erdogan. As my friend has just said, I have passed the Law of Agriculture. He says, Mr. Secretary, but you now owe $40 billion due to the Article 21. From 2007, you never gave it to 1 percent.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0103par0616	We're giving more than 1%.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0102par0617	What's too much? Look, please...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0103par0619	You don't know books!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0102par0620	Please, look... so you don't need to move these numbers, and you, let alone support farmers, owe 40 billion. You're saying the farmers are in a very good condition. Now, in Karacabey-Sultaniye, a farmer brother of mine was planting 800 acres of tomatoes, giving up. He's 63 years old, he wants to get a DMV license, we can't get him from the Department of Transport. You know what, fellas? Where did you get the farmer? I'm here to say that you've heard it, and please, do it with the thought of the farmers, and I salute you all. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit02spe0104par0624	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit03spe0104par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 8th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. On the proposal of the National Movement Party Group, it is now the opposite and final speaker, Mr. Ali Ercoshkun. Now, I have to say, please, before we get into any trouble. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit03spe0105par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you. Yes, the sugar beets are one of the major development areas of the Turkish farmer. In this sense, especially on the Sugar Act, even though our Parliament has been one of the interests of the Agriculture Commission, especially in the Industrial, Trade, Energy Commission. These studies, of course, are taking place at a certain stage, with the ruling party, listening to all the institutions, organizations involved, in harmony with our friends from the Republican People's Party, the National Movement Party and the HDP MP. I thank the members of the Commission, both from the Republican People's Party and from the National Movement Party, separately, for their positive contribution in this sense. It is possible to say now that Turkey's Candy Law on such an important topic of Turkish farmer will be positively revised in the coming period. Yes, we respect all the opinions expressed here, but on the other hand, our agenda is clear. Gene, perhaps as an example, we will soon discuss a law that the Industrial Trade Commission has co-advised. This law on electronic trade, I hope we'll all do it together here in a consensus. So, since our agenda is clear, I regret to say once again that we were unable to participate in the group proposal, I hereby salute you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit03spe0106par0016	Thank you. I'd like to put the nationalist movement group's proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit03spe0107par0018	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit03spe0106par0019	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... all those in denial... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit04spe0106par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 8th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The resolution of the National Party for Action Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't accept... there's enough to decide, it's not accepted. Now don't give me a hand signal. According to the Civil Charter, these two friends who sit next to me must count. Sometimes I count it myself. The most objection to your group is when I count, why are you acting outside your duty? That's why -- okay -- that's what friends count, we have to believe them. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Plus, the TV's off at five, seven o'clock, and you're gonna talk, Reverends, so when you're supposed to applaud my good behavior, I don't get it. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Thursday 23/10/2014 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan and 50 lawmakers have been issued a parliamentary inquiry motion on 2/10/2014 to investigate all aspects of the problems related to the cyanide pool planned to be built in the district of Murgul of Artvin. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in Thursday's joint presentations on 23/10/2014, and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, the first statement is from Mr. Ugur Bayraktutan of Artvin MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit04spe0108par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I salute you all, especially Murgulians who watch us at the head of television. Today I'd like to state that the entire Turkish Grand National Assembly is Murgullu. Here's the thing: Why was there a need to make such a research motion, I'd like to express it, valued lawmakers. Look, what is Murgul? Murgul, the capital of copper in Turkey, is one of the beautiful districts of Turkey, one of which was founded in 1987, in 11 villages, where brave people lived, one of the beautiful towns of Turkey. It's a place where copper mining, dating back to the 18th century, became a real modern operator after 1950s, produced by bloster copper until 1994, followed by the isolation plant in Samsun. Murgul, in particular, is a fact of Turkey, where there are serious problems with copper management in Murgul, where people die before they reach the age of 50, wives become widows, children become orphans, Murgul is a fact. Murgul is the first to speak in parliament in the Parliament of Mustafa Kemal. I address the Murgulians who watch us all over Turkey: Don't just follow my speech, but the speech of our MPs who will speak after me is also very important. Murgullu had a nightmare these days. We felt the need to tell this to Turkey from Parliament, my dear friends. Look, Murgul was in such a state that because of the spread of SO2 gases from this mine in Murgul, people became cancers, they became sick, they died of lung disease, my dear friends, before they reached the age of 50. But at this point, Murgullu is faced with another trouble. Murgullu has really created an epic recently, my dear friends. Cops aren't the only ones in this country who create epics. You don't need to be a cop or a security guard to write epics, and really being a Murgulian is a reason to create epics in this country, my dear friends. Why, look, I've tried to explain here in Parliament a dozen times the mining business of Cerattepe. After the privatisation of the copper facilities in Murgul, my dear friends have been taken over by Genghis Holdings. After this privatisation, Genghis Holding wanted to build the cyanide pool of gold management in Artvin. Look, this is very important. There is no politics here; the Murgulians did not observe politics, they put politics aside, they put their political identities in the refrigerator, with the dignity of being Murgullu, they got rid of this trouble with their upright posture. I'm not going to do politics here in any way, my dear friends. What's wrong? They said, "We want to build a cyanide pool here." They wanted to deal with the head of the holding company. Here he set up a platform saying no to cyanide. At first, a handful of them, no one believed them. What are these young people doing? But then they took a whole town and they took over the boss of a big conglomerate, and they wanted to meet him. He's the boss of the conglomerate. I don't deal with you. He said, my dear friends. On September 26th, Murgullu exhibited a social resistance that could lead environmental movements in Turkey, my dear friends. They've always come together. When they came together, they faced security forces, didn't draw weapons on security forces, didn't ask for IDs, didn't set up law enforcement teams, my dear friends took care of their own land, their native land. They have proved the honor of being Murgullu to all Turkey, to all the world. I kiss their foreheads, bow before them all, my dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] That's what our lawmakers are about to tell us. At first, the owner of the company didn't take them seriously, he thought, "That's not going to happen. He thought it was an isolated act, that with a few yelling and yelling... I could overcome it, my dear friends thought. On September 26th, I was there with the Murgulians, side by side, side by side. Think of a county that has a reflex against a monster who's trying to destroy himself, with a sense of survival, with a serious resistance to it. There were 10,000 people in Murgul? 10,000 people have landed on the street, my dear friends. All the shopkeepers in Murgul, look, I'm not exaggerating, they shut down their businesses, and opened no business except the pharmacy and the oven. No child has ever been to schools, my dear friends. Genghis Holdings had a beef copper business where 900 workers worked. The owner of the holding company threatened to continue producing here. Those 900 workers left work, my dear friends. And I kiss those workers by the forehead, and I salute them. You know why? They put aside the alimony money of their children, of their wives, of their wives, and did not put money on their money by taking from the conglomerate, and they acted with honor, and I salute them with respect. In fact, the owner of the conglomerate told them: "I will fire you on Monday; please return to work, start the factory, or I will fire you three days later. Do you know what those workers told the conglomerate owner? They said, "Don't wait for Monday, fire us today." 900 workers blocked the factory. Think of a town where the businesses are closed, the workers have stopped production in their factory, a whole county woman, her young, her child, her old and she walk to this cyanide pool to say no. Children don't go to school. What could have been the result, my dear friends? The result was that the owner of the holding company saw that the process was wrong, and the land was hummus, and the settlements and locations were near the site of the cyanide pool, so he gave up this pool, which he would build himself, and so he gave up the social resistance, my dear friends. This is an important gain for the environmental movement in Turkey. Murgullu showed the need to be honorable, to be upright, to be broken at the right time, but never to bow. Look, we have the writing, my dear friends, we have the writing. Bakı Bakır Genghis Holdings has made a pledge under this article, saying to the Murgulians: "I will not set up any facility there in any way." Now, here, what's behind this success? He made a written commitment. The mayor of the ruling party stood up -- congratulations to him too -- nationalist Movement Party members, Republican People's Party, ruling parties, all standing upright here. My friends from other political parties were there, too. What does that mean? Murgullu said: "This pool of cyanide will destroy the environment and Murgul. My dear friends, being against the mine at Cerattepe is also against cyanide pools in Murgul. They're the same thing, they're the same thing. We've got trouble. In that sense, Murgullu's behavior is very important to have a shepherd's fire in the Black Sea, in order to be an example of all the environmental movements in Turkey today in Parliament. I celebrate the Murgul Cyanure No platform, the young, each one of them, my dear friends, with a great share in this struggle. In this struggle, they announced to both the company and the world that wanted to search both Artvin and the world, that they would not be called anything that a people did not want, that they would not be approved of anything that the people did not want. They proved it by their actions. So I congratulate them. No one else can defend the rights of a person who walks after their honorable conduct. I also congratulate the people of Murgul, who know the truth well. They went out into the streets with their women, their elders, their children, and we don't want a cyanide pool in Murgul. They said, "My dear friends, we don't want a cyanide pool in Murgul." Here yesterday, our Tripoli MP, Volcano Canalioglu, said that after five days of resistance, Murgul taught his environmental activists: "Murgul." He told us, "Every place is Murgul." He said to us, "Murgul." [[Applause from CHP rows]] In that sense, I, in Parliament today, in the Parliament of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, no matter what political thinking comes from, I describe Murgulians as being under the moon-star flag, children of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who have no problems with the republic. (CHP) They have no ties to any other political thinking. Any political thought comes from Murgul, not a single traitor, my dear friends. (CHP cheers) They were in that faith, they fought in that faith. Therefore, I sincerely congratulate our women, our children, whatever political party they come from, the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, the city councilman, the ordinary citizens, the young children, especially those workers, because their actions have lit up hope beyond us. In a sense, my dear friends have called the environmental movement in Turkey and the murder that was intended to be committed in Murgul. Therefore, a commission that will be set here today will be an example of this as an example of Turkey's environmental movement, a milestone. In that sense, I sincerely believe that our MPs who will speak after me will show the same sensitivity. I sincerely believe that they will stand up to this incident in Murgul, against the murder of the gold miner in Artvin Cerattepe, because we need their support. We'll put our political identities aside, push them aside, and we'll know that there's no more Murgul, no more Artvin, no more beauty. I salute your grand delegation, and give my love and respect to all Murgulians from Parliament.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit04spe0109par0043	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Republican People's Party Group proposal against Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit04spe0110par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. When it comes to environment, when it's nature, when it's cyanide, when it's mineral, when it's violent exploitation, when it's human life, of course, the HDP doesn't speak against it. It's two against, two against, when you're given a say. This is wrong, brother! We will correct it in the Civil Law, and we have already done his work. We're talking about it, it's not against us, and we're talking about it. Of course, there's Artvin, Murgul, which is a tremendously conscious nature struggle. I salute the lawyers there, they've made some very important decisions, even precedents. When it comes to us, of course, we consider our country's subterranean wealth. But when it comes to Soma, we stop to think, let the stoves not close, but let the stoves not go out. I mean, we say it needs to have a balance. Life isn't that simple. The companies are coming, privatizing the mines. They come from the outside, and the biggest victim in those cities is Şırnak Province. In this regard, thermal power plants are linked to coal... And what I see as a member of a mining commission, in the search of gold, in the copper search, let him go, in Elazığta, in Izmir, in Izmir, sir, in his pit, can you imagine, in a cyanide environment where Izmir's waters were threatened -- in Bergama, in a beautiful place like Bergama, in Bergama, in a beautiful place like Bergama, where you can go from Bergama, to Mount Ida, Mount Ida, Mount Ida, which contains the world's most beautiful nature, and its most beautiful forms of life in the world. They destroy all this with the greed of gold, copper, greed for profit, poison life to the people who live there, leave their poisons, their pollution, their waste there, just as they did in Afyon, Kütahya, Manisa, Eskişehirin, in many districts, and leave the unsupervised cyanide pits. In Mount Play, elsewhere... Of course gold is precious, money. It's very important to remove the gold. But because Canadian companies control Canada, Canada, Canada, Canada, Canada, Canada, Canada, Canada, Canada, and Canada, they don't invest there, they don't invest there, they come there, they do it to Turkey. Why? Everything in Turkey is cheap, no control, people's lives are cheap, people can work very hard, that's what's done. This kind of mining is treason, my friends. This kind of greed for profit, the pursuit of this country's wealth, the flow of foreign capital, is the ultimate betrayal. These economic terrorists are poisoning the environment, nature, and life. Cyanide is poison. Does anyone have any evidence that this isn't poison? I went as a member of a mining commission, and I saw it with my own eyes. Had anyone gone to Sardes, perhaps there was a primitive gold-seeking place where the first gold coin of the Kingdom of Lydia was printed. The miner there showed it and said: "Something interesting, without cyanide for the first time, is being extracted gold here without cyanide. " Note, without cyanide, with the delivery system. But when ye go away, the spoils shall be poured out unto Bergamah, and unto Mount Kira, and unto the footman, and unto Izmir, and unto the whole field. The gold, chrome, distilled with cyanide, sprinkled all of that area with cyanide to extract the gold from within a ton of material. They use similar methods of copper and so on in copper and chromium -- with solutions, they pour those minerals into hot canals and extract them from there. So, what about the waste? So we're not going to oversee this in this country? Will this House not succeed? Other than that, we, the People's Democratic Party, have a lot of research proposals and other parties. So can't we just put this together and talk about it? I mean, isn't that what this bench is for? Isn't this Parliament for people? Isn't this Congress for nature? Isn't this the House to live people's lives? This is Congress, isn't this the place to talk about people's future? But I see we can't talk. Security laws are coming on our agenda, pressure laws are coming on our agenda, privatisation laws are coming on our agenda, privatisation laws are being brought to companies, workers are being thrown out into the street, social security is being done, 4/Clı is being done, and Etibank is shutting down, TKI is leaving. TKI deals with companies selling all the basins, parcels, friends. Of course, in Artvin, in Rize, in the Fugitives, they produce the most beautiful honey in the world, but when you destroy it with cyanide, you can't produce that honey. The greens of that beautiful eastern Black Sea were seen in the example of Murgul, how it was wasted, how it was destroyed. Let him go, he doesn't respect historical artifacts, culture, nature, ecological balance, just so someone can win a company. Well, isn't everyone's wealth and beauty in this country? Yeah. So when we say, "People's Democratic Party," when we say, "People's life," when we say, "man's research," we stand for the people, we stand for the people, we fight against those who don't. That's why I always remember Aunt Tortumlu, who fought for environmental rights, just like she said when she walked in and the gendarme came and stopped her: of course we'll deal with you on the line bridge. We don't intend to leave it on the line bridge, my friends. We'll deal with this as soon as possible, we'll settle this, there's no way. I find this research useful. What are we dealing with? Judges, prosecutors are supposed to be here to protect human life, aren't they? If the judge, the prosecutor, had justice, there was a dangerous situation that put human life at risk, it would have to be handled. No... look, judges, prosecutors, what's justice got to do with it? I'm asking the people of the AK PARTY if you've had a trial for making this Taliban sign. No. There's a grizzly sign for the villagers, I'm asking the MHP, has it ever come to you? No. I'm asking the People of the CHP. I don't know if I'm familiar with your cue, but some of you left-wingers are raising your right fist or your left fist. Look, let me read to you, my friends, that while I was not a member of the organization, I was not a member of the organization by making a sign of victory at the festival of Hasip Kaplan Nevruz, they had a fezleke. I mean, I made a sign of victory, prosecutors, a congressman and a 30-year-old lawyer because I made a sign of victory, but they don't mess with cyanide that kills people. But they don't mess with wild profiteers who rob the place. But they don't deal with thieves, they don't deal with looters, they don't deal with liars. That's the shame of this country. It's up to us to change the fate of this, my friends. We'll change it, my faith and my hope are complete. Believe me, I want to express that my hope for this is growing stronger every day. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit04spe0111par0056	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Ilk. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit04spe0112par0060	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group's motion to investigate the cyanide pool that is being established in the District of Murgul, Artvin Province, in favour of its research proposal to take the necessary precautions. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I salute you all. First of all, Mr. Uğur Bayraktutan of the Republican People's Party who has just made the necessary statements on this matter, congratulates you on his struggle on this matter, because about a month ago, I will chain myself here if this problem is not resolved. [[Applause from CHP rows]] As of today's point, it appears that the issue has been partially left behind, or that danger has been overcome, as a result of the common struggle of all of our citizens living in Murgul. And I would like to thank all the citizens of Artvin Murgullu, the district managers and members of all political parties, especially members of the chiefs and NGOs. And in his speech just now, Mr. Flagtutan told me to say thank you on his behalf for forgetting to thank the chiefs, so I'll pass that along. (CHP cheers) We thank them all. Dear MPs, of course, this issue has attracted interest from the efforts of a platform set up in Murgul. And with an announcement issued on behalf of Eti Bakır Asş on 1/10/2014, the production of 4C groups of metals continues, particularly in our facilities on the border of Mürgul district. In our facilities, the process of producing precious metals - including gold and silver - will not be implemented with cyanide. The issue has been postponed with an announcement. This announcement is made to the citizens by the Meat Copper Corporations that if heavy metals, including gold, silver alone are produced, the method of producing cyanide will not be implemented. However, everyone knows that gold and silver, especially the valued lawmakers involved in this work, will surely bring the use of cyanide with them, if the production of gold and silver is at stake. This is an announcement pointing to public reactions that only the danger is being denied. I'd like to get your attention first. And hopefully, in the next challenge, everyone will be able to hold on to the issue, regardless of any political differences, and I would like to make sure that this problem is resolved forever. On this occasion, of course, in the general mining sector, yes, I would like to say that there are other problems besides the environmental damage to cyanide in the facilities where heavy metals such as gold, silver, copper, and so forth are processed. I'd especially like to say that the use of cyanide increases cancer cases, and the concrete evidence of that is reflected in the official figures, for example, because of some businesses in which cyanide is used again within the boundaries of my science, Kütahia. There are painful and serious experiences in Kütahya. I'd like to say that these experiences are also needed for investments in this issue in other provinces. Dear MPs, of course, today, the main problem of the mining industry is the privatisation problem, as we all know very well. With privatisation, the subcontractor application, unfortunately, is getting heavier and heavier every day and continues to cause the victims of many of our citizens, especially our citizens, who work in mining businesses. I would like to share our opinion that it would be wise for this great House to first find a solution to this matter. In the current subcontractor application, I would like to stress in particular the importance of which workers have been victimised, especially in their financial and autonomy rights, that the High Assembly must quickly find a solution without further delay. Of course, the last time on September 10, 2014, the Law on Work under the name of Torba No. 6552 was adopted under the name of the Law and by the Law and by the Law and by the Law and by the Law to Reconstruction some Acquisitions, with the approval of this Grand Assembly. Following the adoption of this law, new problems have arisen, especially with improvements to the rights of workers brought to this great Parliament due to the Soma disaster. In particular, at the beginning of my speech, I would like to stress that this is not interpreted as a proposal to take back the rights of workers or to take away some of the benefits given to the workers. Yes, at the coming point, it is right to double the wages for workers who work in underground mining businesses, a positive development, but the problems that could have arisen in this situation had to be seen in advance. At the coming point, many businesses, including underground mining and coal management, have been shut down. The cause is the increasing cost. For example, in Gediz district of my own province, all existing mining businesses have been shut down and nearly 700 workers are unemployed today. Similarly, in Zonguldak, in Manisa, in Iconya, there are coal companies that are closed. The reason is that costs increase by 40 to 50 percent in total. And so sales prices ended up shutting down because they didn't cover the cost today at market prices. He is an unemployed worker, a closed business owner, and the employer is a victim. Mr. Energy and of course the Minister of Resources has some statements that are reflected in the media about the solution to this issue. Unfortunately, I regret to inform you that, for example, in a statement published in some media bodies of September 29, 2014, the Minister has stated that we have brought the motion to the Supreme Assembly in the bag of legislation, but the motion has been withdrawn because of opposition's objection. Dear lawmakers, such a motion has not come to this great House and has not been withdrawn with opposition's objection. The demand is that the additional burdens, due to increasing costs, will be assumed by the state in public businesses -- as the Minister stated -- but the need for similar contributions to private sector businesses has arisen. For example, increased social security contributions will occur in public and private sector businesses -- I mean in mining businesses in the form of redevans -- and in the private sector, this must be considered and the burdens on these businesses should be lightened. Otherwise, the mining sector has reached a position in Turkey where import coal access cannot be prevented. I hereby find it appropriate to present this matter to the attention of the High Assembly. On the other hand, even though the mineral rights have been doubled only in underground coal companies, it's unfair to keep them the same in other mines, an inequality. These arrangements must be brought to the agenda of the High Assembly immediately. If the Minister of Energy has such an opinion, I clearly think it would be helpful for him to declare it to this great House. But I also want to say that in the name of saving the day, you can't get over such an important problem with false statements. I hereby declare that we are in favor of the Republican People's Party's motion. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit04spe0113par0075	Thank you, Mr. Light. Against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Artvin MP, Mr. Israel Barracks. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit04spe0114par0079	Mr. President, I have been promised to explain the opinion of the EC PARTI Group regarding the proposal for the establishment of a research commission for the construction of a cyanide pool in Murgul, Republican People's Party Artvin MP Ugur Bayatutan and his friends. I salute you all. We've been running this country for 12 years as an AK PARTY, and in 12 years, our entire nation has been following where we've brought the country from and where we've brought it. In 12 years, our country has grown fourfold. If our national income is up to $11,000 in levels of $2,500 per million, our exports are up to 154 billion dollars out of $37 billion, if inflation, interest are down to one-digit figures, all because of the investments made by the private sector and the public sector in this country. Just yesterday, we discussed the motion against the construction of nuclear power plants in this House. Sadly, some have not yet abandoned their habits in the 1970s, and from time to time, we face these reflexes. If you still oppose airport investment, bridge investments, dam investments, nuclear plant investments, mining, building industry, building factories, you can't understand that. With that understanding, we only need 70 cents for the country. FOR twelve years, the AK PARTY governments have always done good deeds for our people, for our people, and for the harm of our people, and for the harm of our nation, and for the good of our nation, and have done nothing. The mine reserve in Artvin is undoubtedly one of the most important agendas in our province. It's certainly nice to have our underground wealth brought to the country's economy for our country's development. But, of course, our sensitivity here as Artvinians is at the point where all our concerns and concerns are being invested and Artvin's and Artvin's are not harmed. Such investments are not the first investments made in Turkey and the world. Gold mines, silver mines, copper mines are being mined in our country, in the Silver House, in Bergama, in the Globe, and in many other lands. Of course, the technology that will be used here is also extremely important, and the CED report that will be taken here is also extremely important. These investments are not investments that can be made without a CED report. The CED report, of course, is a report that will reveal with scientific data what kind of damage to the environment will be done to the investment. In this regard, we believe that all public institutions and organizations will, of course, take such matters into account with precision in the process of giving the CED report, and at the same time, the technology that will be used is certainly crucial to such investments. In that sense, what the company wants to do, what technology it will use, what technology it will use, and what it will do to Artvin. If these damages are caused -- in the scientific sense -- we are here, as the people, as the ruling, as lawmakers, of course, against this investment. Murgul's people have lived with the mine for years, not strangers to the mine. Copper mines have been mined for years, and more than a thousand workers work in this mine today. Before the mine was privatized, look, in Murgul, maybe those who went -- believe me, the rivers flowed brown, and all that nature was covered in brown. You can see that damage in every way, but it has a green nature today, and its water is clear and you can't see a person complaining about the mine now. Why? So there's a technology used to prevent these damage to the public here. In that way, it's all green today, like I said. One important thing is that the issue in Artvin is not just a matter of one civil organization. Since this is an issue of all of Artvin, in fact, we have the right idea that a common platform that holds many parts of society together would be the subject, it would be the subject, and it would be the right thing to carry out the matter. Thanks to him, the Chamber of Commerce held a meeting last Sunday, and by setting up such an independent platform, hopefully he will be able to monitor these developments in the mine in Artvin. Because there's also serious information pollution. In that respect, the mining company in Murgul (now Murgul) has found that our fellow members of parliament have given up building cyanide pools, as our fellow MPs have spoken -- and has promised not to do so, and has declared it publicly. If such a thing is harmful to Murgul's people in that region, let it be done in a place where there is no harm, where there is no harm for our people. Therefore, with such a declaration, the reasons for the establishment of the research commission have been removed because I don't see the need for such a commission to be set up here if the construction of the cyanide pool is off the agenda. The motion has no meaning, so it is out of the question for us to support the motion. Let our people know for sure that our governments are investing in Artvin, especially health, education, transportation, tourism and energy. In the future, I believe Artvin will be the most modern, peaceful city in Turkey. Today, investments in Artvin have been worth over 10 quadrillion brothers during the AK PARTY rule for twelve years. Hopefully, I'll follow the subject of this mine and all the improvements with good reason, and I'll greet you all with these feelings, that with the right intervention and time, Artvin will not be harmed, that there will be a right way, that there will be a way, that there will be a way, that there will be a way, that there will be a way.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit04spe0115par0089	Thank you, Mr. Barracks.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit04spe0116par0090	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit04spe0115par0091	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit04spe0116par0094	Mr. President, we want enough numbers for the meeting.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit04spe0115par0095	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Gök, Mr. Seşam, Mr. Ilm, Mr. Ayhan, Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Serintutan, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Gök, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Öz, Mr. Oral, Mr. Oral, Mr. Oral, Mr. Oral, Mr. Ugly, Mr. Chiray. I'll give you three minutes, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0115par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 8th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call before the Republican People's Party Group's proposal was voted was not enough. Now I'm going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. There's enough meetings on the electronics, so I don't read them. Yes, I propose to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the 3rd ranked President of the Turkish Health Institutes and with a law proposal similar to the Law Bill on Changes in Some Laws and Laws, and the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the European Union's Integration Commission, Industry, Trade, Energy, Resources, Information and Technology Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 4th place, and the European Union's Integration Commission, Development, Development and Tourism Commission. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by 240 rows. Congressmans, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Erdal Aksunger wants to speak on the whole bill. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0117par0036	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Editing e-commerce...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0115par0038	Mr. Aksinger, one second, I'm hanging up, I'm turning it back on. Members of parliament, the General Assembly, especially in the ranks of ministers, has a hum. I'm asking you, if we could just keep it quiet. Mr. Aksinger, please, I've reopened it.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0118par0041	Mr. President, they're not listening to you, so I think if you look at them again, you'll see they're not listening.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0115par0042	Now, I did, since I can't get up and get down with the bat. I mean, everyone's made up of people who are sane. So that's it.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0118par0043	We can't think of anything else now that the country's been tried to discipline it with a stick, so it's because of it.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0115par0044	I feel like class president.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0118par0045	That's right.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0115par0046	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0118par0047	Now, of course, in the country's agenda, it's very important that this kind of thing is about the development of the trade, because it's constantly on the agenda, and I think it's too late for this material to come here. But, of course, when we look at it, we need to figure out what electronic trade means, what it means in the world. The world is actually discussing a new economy, the economics of knowledge. Why is he arguing about this? Now so large in the world, commercial institutions have moved to huge volumes by producing information that some countries can produce as much volume as their non-national product. Look, I'll give you a little example or two of the values of some institutions that produce information and work in the U.S. as a digital library: for example, Google is worth twice as much as the total value of Turkey's economy today. So in fact, when you add up all the dynamics that deal with industry in Turkey, there's a $130 billion volume -- I'm saying it as a value -- whereas Google alone has a $275 billion volume, selling information. What is needed to have information in Turkey? Because this is where I'm gonna get my e-trade. For one thing, education systems in countries and at which point, it is one of the most important issues of scientific training. I'm going to give you a very clear example of this: see how far back or how far behind is the education of science in Turkey? I'm going to give you a very clear example of this: it's mathematics based on the education of children in the world. The development of social intelligence is associated with the culture of common life in that country. Look, let's see what's going on with the kids in this country about math. Now, 19 per cent of Shanghai, all of whom are very good at math and science reading -- all of which are -- I'm saying 16.5 per cent in Singapore -- which is very good -- is 6.1 in Poland; 1 in Turkey, the very good ones are in Turkey. What does that bring? He's bringing in infrastructure. Now we've done this in 12 years, we've done this, we've equipped Turkey with technology. This happened, this happened. You're saying... I'll give you one very simple example: high-tech export is the basis for this, based on how high-tech you export. In 2002 -- I'm saying this as a unit -- the condition of China is 41.7 -- and I'm saying this as a unit -- and in 2012, it was up to 505 units; Korea was up to 121 units in 54.3 and 2012; Malaysia 47 was up to 61, then India was up to 61; Poland was up from 0.8 to 9.5, and Turkey was up to 1.9 in 1.9 in the past 12 years. So this is where we're at the very bottom of producing and exporting anything that involves technology and technology. Of course, the world is experiencing some monopoly on this new economy. I'm not just saying for Turkey, there's monopoly all over the world. I mean, it's just that only Turkey has its own inner curvature... And I'm not saying that it's particularly consistent with the economy that's been brought in over these last neoliberal policies. But the bottom line of this problem in the world is that the developing countries are actually attacking right now. In 2001-2002, Turkey carried the story of where it said that hot money in the world would go and how much interest would I get from?.... until 2008-2009, and then it became unable to carry it, and now we have a serious problem with production. Now, in the meantime, what actually supports the infrastructure of electronic trade? Most important of all: do you have such infrastructure? How do you use the Internet? Have your logistical infrastructure improved? Do you build structures that relate to these studies, and do you train children like this? These are all actually the most important dynamics on one occasion. Look, in your 12 years of power in Turkey, let me tell you, we all memorized this: you claim to have taken a serious course in privatisation. I'm not talking about whether or not you're against privatisation, but one simple thing: why is it privatized? Sir, it's not efficient, so it's privatized. Someone says that I'm going to make a policy like this, brother, that I'm not going to have a hand in the economy, that I'm going to take my hand out of it, that I'm privatizing it, that it's unproductive. But unfortunately, we see that most of what you're privatizing is actually golden chickens. I'll give you one example: you've privatized Turkish TELEKOM. Yeah, Turkish TVEKOM is Turkey's infrastructure. I want another example, for example, one country in developing countries that delivers all its infrastructure to foreigners, show me one country. Besides, there's an institution called TRT with him, brother. There must be about 10,000 people working on this TRT. Yeah, what does my brother do, like this TRT? Yeah, it looks like he's the rival of a television station that's being taken with 200-300 people, and we're looking at ratings, and there's no ratings, we're looking at budgets, there's incredible budgets. Okay, so what you can say here is that we're not privatizing this in terms of employment. You're in a conflict in a useful relationship, there's a mistake here, but under privatisation, they've been talked about by everyone, but for some reason, the perpetrator didn't show up. Now, let me get back to PTT in the same way, because it's one of the biggest, most stressful places that's going to be on the basis of e-trade in the coming process, and if one of the developing places develops logistics, logistics, e-trades will develop. Now, we're looking at something like this -- something like this -- Turkish TELEKOM was privatized, as well as Turkish TELEKOM, as well as an institution called PNT. It's an institution that's going to be very important in infrastructure, on the logistics side. Now the PTT is being redesigned. You know, keep it in the hands of the government, okay, but what do you do? PTT is being given monopoly rights. So where will there be competition? The private sector and the state will compete. Let's get out of the economy. You're going to compete, and if PTT comes to a place where it's covered, you're going to take money out of people's pockets, you're going to shut down the competition, you're going to grow PTT in certain places, and then you're going to privatize it. I don't know who you're selling to, maybe it's planned, maybe it's planned. So what's the point, which one of these makes sense? For one thing, someone has to do their own self-criticism from here. Now, the Internet is what we call it. What I see is that in the last year, we've all seen how antipathic this power has been to the Internet, so let's even close the Internet. Okay, let's organize the Internet, and we'll organize the electronic trade, which is essential to the Internet. There are men here who say, "Let's shut down the Internet." I'm putting aside the concepts of freedom, and I'm looking at it by trade, which means there's going to be a problem. So how do you proceed? The problem will come from here in the next situation. Turkey is not in very difficult places for electronic trade at the moment. No, but one of our biggest problems is that we compare the numbers that the world is developing with the numbers that we're developing. Now, there is a volume in Turkey around 40 billion euros in 2011, 2012, and 2013, but within this 40 billion euro volume, there are numbers supported by banks. Expectations for Turkey in 2016 are $50 billion. It is thought that money will become a trade on the Internet or on e-commerce. But let's take a look at the numbers, and see how the world develops, and what are the numbers of the world? Electronic trade in Europe was 156 billion dollars in 2012, 2016 expected $280 billion. When you gather all the countries in Europe, there are 300 million populations, and there are 75-80 million populations in Turkey. When we look at it -- there's actually a disaster -- there's a lot of trouble there. It appears that the infrastructure must be dealt with seriously. In the same way, when we look at the market in America, America has produced 231 billion dollars in volume in 2012, but you see it says $390 billion in 2016. They're practical, I'll tell you why. He doesn't write those numbers to America because they keep money there, not there, because they're using companies like Google, such as Apple, in some countries in Europe, because they transfer money to those companies. Those population rates are actually seen in the development of trade and the importance of information technologies in that country. We, as Turkey, are now in our e-state understanding -- based on the United Nations report -- I'm saying all of this about human development reports -- we're 89 percent, so that's what this perception is. Because I've just told you about the development of math with children, it's actually human resource support for the creation of scientific infrastructure. We don't teach like that in colleges anyway. This one -- it turns out -- countries like China, like Russia, like India, have moved forward at least 50 times, 100 times; we've brought 1 to 1.9. Our failing math class... we're in class at the math lot in the world. Even in TÜBA, you get at least 70 percent of the criteria you're looking for -- look who they make members of the Turkish Academy of Sciences -- almost an imam-gay graduate. Yeah, this is the Academy of Sciences, my brother, the Turkish Academy of Sciences, go look at the new members, the Asian members. What does the world say about it, about TUBA? What does the world have to say about it? He's only got one name left, and he's not producing anything. You say TUBITAK, that's where you look at science, because you've turned it into an institution looking at them. 39% of the world's 7 billion people use the Internet. That's a serious amount of 2.8 billion people. Turkey is also said to have a serious ratio. That's 37.5 million people. I think there's a problem with this Internet usage: all of these have digital reading problems over the Internet on one occasion of 37.5 million. If we can't solve the digital reading problem, ban it, stick it, with it, we can't train people in any way on the Internet space, there's no such thing. If you try to move this country by looking at who's doing what on the Internet, you can't expect any electronic trade to develop, nor can you expect human development. This country is devastated at this point, devastated at the point of scientific education; I'm not saying, the United Nations reports are saying it, I'm not saying it. For example, what should be brought with new arrangements for e-trade? Yeah, I don't know what the ministry looks for at the point of science, technology in this Turkey. Well, how would the citizen know, where would the trader trust? First of all, the most important thing here is trust. Now, a lot of institutions are looking at a lot of things. Immediately, an institution that can solve all problems one-handedly needs to be put into a trust, and if you can't get it to sit down, you can't solve it. Look, I'm going to tell you something very simple. Every day, almost every day, banks, insurance companies, a lot of people are harassing us on the phone. We have this product, this one, this one. They're looking for a reason or any institution, and they're looking for a man you don't know who I am, and we've brought you a product like this, and this is what I'm calling for. They send e-mails, text messages, text messages, phone abuses, social media abuses. And my friend, where do these guys get this data? I'll tell you where he got it, he's getting it from Turkcell, he's getting it from Turkcell, he's getting it from Turkcell, he's getting it from here, I'll tell you, he's getting it from the institutions of this state. Yeah, it turns out that the Social Security Agency has just sold data for $65 million, and it's making revenues, and it's getting $65 million from that, he said. Now, what did he do? Someone who's sold people's data, and that guy's calling you on the phone. And, brother, didn't we just take out the Safety of Personal Data Act here a few months ago? And no one's complaining about this guy? Even if he doesn't, don't you have a run in this country, brother? No judgment? So no one complains about this from here? I'm sure it does, but there's no agency here to handle it. There's a bank looking for me before I even got here. Brother, where did you get this data, where did you get my data? This personal data means that he's taking his house, his phone, his profile, whatever. So he knows he bought it from that product, or he's got a professional structure that he knows he needs, and they profiled him in that structure, and this guy takes it, and he does this. That's a crime, that's a crime. Wherever this guy got them, someone's got to get their hands on them through judgment. This is harassment, in fact, the sequel of a violent capitalist story. What kind of a thing is that? Of course we're going to have to arrange this, but we need an institution that regulates it, and we need an institution to organize it. That's three, not five department recipes. I told you, I don't know what the minister is looking at about technology. You have to go in there and see if he's looking at it, whether it's looking at this or this; what institution is it? What is it? That's not gonna happen, is it? None of the consumer arbitration committees work, no matter what anyone says, they're all lies. The consumer delegations in the Chamber of Commerce were introduced there, and the consumer delegations will decide until certain numbers. Brother, it doesn't work, it doesn't work. On top of it, people couldn't defend their rights. These are serious problems for this country. As far as I'm concerned about the volume of trade, as long as you don't remove the fact that the competition in Turkish TELEKOM is being blocked, as long as you turn the PTT into a monopoly and prevent competition in the next process, and in the same way, there will be a big problem if you don't interfere with certain institutions. Because why? In 2013-2014, all figures made on e-trade in Turkey make 97 per cent of the 40 billion dollars, 97 per cent of the entire figure, 2.5-3 per cent of 12,000 e-trade sites. Yeah, what does that mean? There's cartelization because infrastructure's expensive, you're selling the Internet from the stake, you're not telling the SMEs about it, it's a complete mess of concept. The ones who own banks are going to do e-trades in future processes or holdings, so it looks like they're going to do e-trades. Well, you don't produce technology, it doesn't exist. Yeah, I'm gonna put a weight on this place, and then I'm gonna go back, and I'm gonna... I said, "It's an ordinary education." I mean, colleges need to get started, e-commerce training needs to start in colleges. Why? So I'm thinking, what kind of space did he use to buy from the Internet at 40 billion TL? The number around 39% came from smartphones, 27 percent came from tablets, and some 34 percent came from accounts. It means, brother, mobile apps are becoming very important in the world, we're all using some apps -- we're all using mobile apps for our children -- but by setting up infrastructure right -- that is, by teaching our own unique software, our free software, we need to do mobile apps and be prepared for the next process. It's obviously going through mobile apps. Because the two of them add up to about 70 percent. It's very valuable and very important. Now, this sense of confidence in trade is the biggest problem on the Internet. Look, as long as you don't fix the trust problem in business, as long as you don't bring the arrangements, you'll be following it. As long as you don't say it, that trust problem always suffers. Because why? A site does not return to a very serious e-commerce without the references of a large conglomerate or bank. We still don't trust checks, say, in normal trade today. It's already there. The issue already called trust in that old word has already been destroyed, even its bones have already dried, but this story will not provide an e-commerce for a poor citizen down there who can e-commerce e-commerce without a sense of confidence in business, in general trade, in another place, if you can't maintain confidence in doing so, and that 97 percent of the volume will be monopolized during the next period. I mean, it's pretty obvious. If you don't do this, if you don't edit these things down there, you can't completely allocate trust, it's 100 percent of this structure that's going to be a problem. Of course, the e-state must use it. I told you, that's what we did here on e-states in the last two years. But in the U.N. development report, you're in the 90th place. It says, "You're in the 90th row." Well, we've already told you about technology-oriented exports. Although we've said a lot of positive things before, we've said it on commissions, but no one's listening. If they don't listen, we've signed every report necessary for this country, then we'll keep throwing it. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0119par0075	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0120par0079	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group regarding the Charter on the Order of Electronic Trade 240 rows. I salute you all. Of course, I'd like to thank Mr. Erdal Aksinger here at the beginning of my speech. Indeed, he gave the data as it was, and he referred to the deficits. And as a lawyer, I want to complete this by referring to the different dimensions of technical deficits, disorders, corruption, abuse, deception, qualified fraud. Now, when we open like this... what would have really happened if it hadn't been for the European Union? The bureaucrats prepare 65 per cent of the laws set out in this Parliament, 35 per cent of the laws we have to do by the acquisitor of the European Union, which is strictly about electronic trade. The European Union decided that in 2000, what year is it now? It's 2014. So, they got it in the 20th century, and now in 2014, it's the 21st century, and it's a great technical development. The Internet, social media, different groups, and all the trade that's been done over them... we're not just talking about tourism, we're talking about bank cards, we're not talking about phone ads, we're talking about a problem in every aspect of our lives, we're talking about a problem that all of our children are dealing with on their cell phones and everywhere. Does this really involve adequate security measures and precautions? It's controversial. Is it a step? It's a step. So seeing the positive side, saying the negative side, it's got to be honest politics. If only it had not been written on the grounds of these laws, it would have been an acquish to the European Union. Think of it this way, friends: Banks are calling you on the phone, saying: "We're raising your limit from 5 billion to 50 billion -- let's go to the old account. There are additional cards in the children. Whether you accept it or not, it's recorded on the phone. Are you paying attention? The recording is on one side, so the evidence is on one side, not on your side. It's a word that comes out of your mouth... by accident, your phone was in someone else's hands or, I don't know, a simple example, natural gas services or something. They're calling from the Kombist for three years, will you take care of your installments? Did you or did you say no? It doesn't register, it doesn't register, it doesn't register, it doesn't register information in its own favour. When it comes to the trial tomorrow, it doesn't give any of the witnesses, it says: "You didn't give such talk. How can you prove it?" As a lawyer, you can't prove it because it erases the part it wants, it leaves its department and it leaves. You're abroad, you're in the country, and there's always progress in this area. Do you know what the most important development in electronics is? When the Internet came out, it hit the music industry the most, friends, and something like that, producers, album makers, CDESTs, DVDESTs all of a sudden, the music industry collapsed. Why did it collapse? Because you could easily get a thousand songs into a small device, and the royal rights struggle started in cinema, in art, in a conflict like this. Well, other than that... you go from here to other countries for the purpose of tourism, booking hotels, booking planes, whatever. Where do you do it? You do it from some companies. Are you doing it online? Yeah, from the Internet. Where do you put the money? You're putting it back where it says it is. What's going on? From time to time, people who pack their bags to go on tour in the news, they either stay at the airport, or you see the company dust, disappear, and on their way to vacation, they'll know they're getting paid, they're getting ripped off. So, is he alone? No. Have you thought about how many ads come to your phones a day? Now, you're looking at these ads, and it's really turning into harassment. In all areas, of course... they give your phone information -- we're an information society -- all over the place, to the GSM operators, to TELEKOM, to the head office, they sell those records for $50, my friends. They're sending thousands of recordings to a flash drive. Now, let me get my phone, half the messages are full of these, so I'm looking at what's going on, there's a realtor, there's a tourist, there's a bank, there's a credit card, so what don't we have? It's from house-to-house to sand-carrier, I don't know. Then, you read the citizens' news, and in the newspapers, he orders a cell phone, opens the door, and when the box comes in, the cucumber comes out. So it's a scam, he takes his money, he makes fun of it, and he cheats with quality. Now, this law -- I just talked to the Minister -- has a deterrent sentence from a thousand liras to 5,000 liras. He won't back down, he'll con 500 of them, and when he cons 500 of them, he'll get a tip on it. I mean, this has to be punishable and deterrent. Criminal deterrentism requires good control of companies that trade in this electronic environment, which have certain qualities and rules, because the last number I've identified is over 50 billion things that come with orders. For example, you can electronically order big stores from vegetables to fruit, certain brands inspire trust, people go over it. But for these big corporations and those who have trust, when you go outside them, you don't know what's going to come out of the package. So, what's going to happen in a situation like this? The consumer's rights will kick in. What about consumer rights? I mean, I'm gonna say this, but I can't say that a week ago, didn't you guys pass a law on consumer rights so that lawyers don't get a lawyer's fee on the arbitration board? Well, you just passed it a week ago. You passed a law here to protect consumer rights, not get a lawyer's fee. Now, you're challenging this kind of corruption and fraud. So that's it? One minute you're using bank credit cards, and the next you're doing a $20 deal, and somebody walks in and does a $2,000 purchase. A message comes in, it says: "If you've done such shopping, shut up, it doesn't matter." If not, let me know. What will he do? He'll close the card. What's he gonna do? Can you follow a company from here in Italy, Germany, Belgium? Is there an arrangement? No. The things I said were missing and why you were incompetent... Now, this law on the right to promote this right from the league matches that have come to this level of harassment, and I would like to use this right as a citizen in the European Union and Far East countries. If you say, "I'm tired of not getting advertising, I'm tired of these commercials on my cell phone." One of you comes out and gives me an example... here's our Internet, communications expert friends, and I'm not bad as a lawyer. It doesn't stop me when I look at the law. That means that the law is inadequate, my friends. Insufficient, not effective. Not just to fulfill the European Union's acquisp, but also to protect consumer rights. A contract on the phone, a contract on the phone voice: If a record is kept, if it's on the one side, it protects the one side. Is there a reason for that? No. Now, look, is there one-sided evidence in law? No. Do banks get you to sign contracts like an ant prayer for credit cards? Yeah. For the phones? Yeah. Where you shop? Yeah. Is there any chance anyone could say those ant prayers? No. Now, here, the main problem is control, my friends. Are there audit agencies? No. Have you blocked consumer civilian initiatives about auditing; lawyer, have you stopped legal aid? You cut it. So, did you preserve the personal data? No. Mr. Aksinger explained, and I'm telling you, the country where personal data is sold most is Turkey. Anyway, this is the last birth certificate, and when the ID cards come out, we're gonna be walking around like chip-stamped. So we're going to talk about these new identities -- of course we're going to talk about -- where they're going to be now, on the satellite. Who's gonna watch? Well, NASA is going to watch, monitor intelligence from international developed countries in the first place, and from that number, you've done a lot of military service, you've done no habits, you've been treated in which hospital, all of them will come out. Is there protection? No, guys. And the criminal conviction? From 1,000 to 5,000... it doesn't deter companies. There's a condition about big corporations, and Luxembourg has the right to go to the Court of Justice. Well, is there any guarantee of that? Turkey is not the country of the European Union, but it also signed the customs union in 1995. Can Luxembourg go to the Court of Justice as a country that sides with the Customs Union? He can't go. Now, we're a community of knowledge, brother. And when I say that this is electric, we see freedom in trade, but when freedom comes to thought, social media, we see the government's bat, we see the state's ban on the Internet within four hours, we see the state's ban on Twitter in four hours, social media, Facebook, so the state is in an electronic environment. If people or NGOs express their opinion, the government feels it. Other than that, in the name of trade, the state has committed all sorts of thefts, corruption, plundering and transports, let them do it, let them pass. So competition, wild competition, can do whatever you want. Why is it that credit cards don't have a proper, more insuranceal, safer, citizen, consumer protection app for this electronic trade scam? That arrangement is where it's at. The banks have to have a certain degree of responsibility, the banks have to take responsibility for these cards up to a certain limit, the banks have to pay for the mistakes they're making, but unfortunately, they're making the citizens pay. Now, one of the most important things that comes with the bill is the e-mails, the Internet -- the IP number, everyone can use it, any computer, Wi-Fi and so on -- is that they're going to order something very easy now -- they're going to put money into it, take it, take it, check it out, there's no mechanism, unfortunately. This mechanism, this kind of board of specialists... we have all these universities, empty people, unemployed people, but in this area that we need, most of the people we raise in IT are unfortunately unemployed, we're in a strange country. Guys, there's a lot to say about this law, but look here, for God's sake, the European Union-Turkey Communication Strategy. What they said: here are the methods of electronic communication and debate, the creation of project forms in this environment, the Internet campaigns for Turkey, et cetera, et cetera, the Internet for our country's promotion, et cetera, and so on. Now, the credit card payment system in Turkey. They say in 2023, the 100th year of the republic will increase by 100 percent. It's hard not to admire such a vision. What kind of vision is that? What does your credit card have to do with 2023? This is what you're going to say, this is the event where you carry your political mentality up to your credit cards. There has to be a separate arrangement for the provisions of Bank Cards and Credit Cards Law on the problem of insecurity. Most of the victims are credit cards, additional cards, and phone calls. In the industry, electronic signatures have to be required at the limits that have to be electronic signatures, so you have to separate a 100-dollar order from a 100-billion-dollar order, which is exactly what it's supposed to be. Now, in our country, the exchange of carded systems in Turkey increased from 265 to 360 billion in 2011. When we get an increase in this, it looks like this increase in metropolitan cities is going to be fast. This requires some use of the control systems in the United States and the Far East. I'm sure the Ministry has experts. The Ministry of Information, Communication, Electronics, Science, Industry and Technology -- which is in this field -- needs to go and train in this field. They need to meet in these areas and do a study on how to talk and avoid. That's what the figures show us, and in the Law on the Protection of consumer 4077 and so on, citizens must also open the way for all citizens to benefit from free legal aid, including legal guarantees for the protection of consumers. If we're going to look out for our citizen, it's the right thing to do. After that, he can order whatever he wants in the tourism industry, and then he can order in any other way. Now we're in the same position as any other party here. It's a space with a void. There's an adjustment coming. The needs of the European Union are also called. What are we gonna do here? We see too little, my friends, quite frankly, too inadequate. By all means, as a formality, we have fulfilled the need of the congregation. With such understanding, we do not believe that it will be of great benefit, and we do not find it sufficient, and we find it lacking. Kerhen, as they call it, is our position. We think that strengthening this area would be extremely useful for individuals' rights of consumption. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0121par0101	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0122par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have pledged to present the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the general draft of the Law on the Order of Electronic Trade 240 rows under discussion. I hereby salute the grand jury. First of all, I want to thank Mr. Mehmet Erdogan for making such a big adjustment during subcommittee work. We agreed, where this bill was adopted, reached the conclusion, met in the Commission, and then waited here for two years. If he has no emergency, why did we discuss it that day, if he had an emergency, why is he waiting? What is the mystery that prevents this? In this country, there should be an infrastructure for this issue. First of all, I want to make this clear. If, in fact, in this legislation, in the bill that comes here, there's something that needs to be changed in the bill that's being discussed -- and I'll mention it in a little bit later -- then we'd have to take it back to the Commission and renegotiate it all because it's a very dynamic matter, but what did we do to make sure that there's no regulation of any fundamental law in this matter, as the Millitarian Movement Party? We stated today that we would support such a matter unconditionally and unconditionally. But I see there's trouble again. Laws supply their material from the past and govern the future. It's both necessary and difficult to make legal arrangements in areas associated with technology that are constantly developing, and that's what we're talking about. In such cases, it is not based on stopping, slowing, or operating in a dysfunctional way that is predicted or predictable in the fields associated with technology and the implementation of legislative activities related to problems. As a matter of fact, although e-turning is the Turkey Project, it is not possible to say that development and harmonisation in the field of implementation and technological infrastructure of the project also applies to the field of law. The basis of the Bill of Law on Editing Electronic Trade is stated to be two separate methods for making arrangements for the services of electronic trade and information society. The first method is partially abandoned as of today. This method argues that a separate and independent arrangement should be made regarding the field of electronic trade. The second method is to review existing regulations and add provisions to the existing regulations, rather than independent and separate regulations, which are adopted by the European Union. The reason why the second method is adopted in the European Union is that the European Union's directive 2000/31, which provides regulations for electronic trade, has been stated to contain provisions related to many specific areas of law established by basic laws, but the issue that should not be ignored here is that all transactions carried out via the Internet are now a part of life that is indispensable, and the lawmakers and jurisprudence must act within that awareness. The aims of the bill are to ensure harmony between the EU directive and Turkish law as an arrangement for e-mails. In both areas, regulations are being made; obligations brought for those who provide and provide information are one area, other issues related to unwanted e-mails. New concepts and areas, which are not possible to be solved by old systems and legislation, are also on the grounds that some legal regulations are being made in the countries of the European Union because the law cannot be resolved in its current form. With the subcommittee's well-intentioned efforts and understanding of the president of the subcommittee, it was possible to specify the views of all NGOs and public enterprises attending the meeting, and eventually the bill was reconsidered under the supervision of academics. The bill does not have an impact analysis. There is no information as to what its impact on trade and economics will be. It is clear that there is no legal structure for foreign trade. The economic impact of the bill has never been considered. It is a draft draft under EU directives. The government doesn't even know this job is needed. It has not been seen in this bill in connection with the bill for the protection of personal data. The adoption of new laws has not been prevented for each change of EU legislation. The issue has been subject to regulations in both EU and other countries. Precious lawmakers are sometimes introduced to life by a law adopted; it means that there is a new opportunity and order to live, leading to the law. At times, the effects of life and economic obligations that the laws do not foresee and want to block eventually begin to walk and work. This is the way the law rears up and shapes what society is implementing. Its expressions and views are directly related to this bill. Dear lawmakers, the results of the research in 30 countries on how many per cent of their annual income is earmarked for electronic trade are interesting and interesting. As a matter of fact, it has been determined that there is no right proportion between their annual income and their electronic trade. Clearly, the height of economic income will not be an indicator. The literature observed that when individuals often pay for their concerns about electronic trade, whether or not they will receive the property, credit card information is focused on whether or not they can be obtained for fraud or/or other purposes and whether or not they can be used, the seller's physical location is not available, if there is a problem, for example, if a property is dirty, there is no real person representative who can directly convey his problems. In the 19th century, health has become a threat that crosses borders and international measures have been taken, and the Internet must not ignore that the 21st century has become a threat across the border. Now, with the current structure and organisation, you can't run this as the Ministry. There's a disorganized organization in public, indiscriminate. On the other hand, even though NGOs have different goals, I would like to point out that this law is one of the reasons why it cannot meet in minimum partnerships for two years in this General Assembly. There have been significant developments in electronic trade since 2011, when this bill was implemented. Today, electronic trade has become an important sector with the volume of trade and multi-dimensional dynamics it has reached. We're not going to talk about electronic trade anymore, we're not going to invoke the purpose of disqualifying the powers of an NGO with a motion. It's a very large area, and there's a lot of places to play for the government. This sector attracts foreign investors. Foreign investors are involved in electronic trade in our country. Foreign investors share or buy e-trade sites that grow and gain international dimensions. The entrepreneur, who operates in electronic trade, is called an e-interimist. Electronic trade also created the concept of e-interference. As a matter of fact, our Treasury Department has opened such a website. Electronic trade has become one of the key areas of the Internet economy. Payments made by the Interbank Card Centre in 2013 from the Internet have grown by 37 per cent, reaching 35 billion Turkish liras compared to 2012. According to the Interbank Card Centre again, trade volume has increased 100 per cent over the past four years in letters, telephones, orders, and online payments. And then there's the consumer dimension. The Interbank Card Centre explains that the number of shoppers from the Internet has reached 10 million. About one eighth of our country's population is shopping from the Internet. I mean, it's way out of line with the EU acquish. There's a real trade volume in the middle. It is necessary to look at the laws governing the issue from this point of view and to carry out the arrangements. In this framework, we need to start with the definition of the type of electronic trade that is of economic importance. Electronic trade has three basic recognitions -- between businesses, business, consumer and consumer. Sales from business to consumers, which is the issue of the bill of the law, is based on the form of electronic trade that is fundamental to selling to consumers. For this reason, the law must also be introduced to consumers, consumers, and consumers, and consumers, and consumers, as well as sales definitions, and the relevant laws must be referred to. On the other hand, the bill has two concepts as buyers and consumers in its title, and it is useful to clarify them a little bit more. E-commerce is also a distant way of selling. On the other hand, when we talk about e-trade, we're not just talking about domestic sales, we're talking about foreign sales. One of the developments after 2011 was the sale of domestic consumers, as well as the sale of foreign consumers. In this scope, the bill must also be referred to as the introduction of international trade definitions and related laws for domestic sales and foreign sales. The purpose and scope of the draft law and its titles are really inadequate. There is no clause in the law that refers to that matter. However, there's a restraining order on this issue. Electronic trade is also a retail trade. In this respect, it is also important to clarify the concept of retail in the law. In this scope, the law on the regulation of retail trade is in the form of a bill, but the bill also states that making arrangements for electronic trade, carrying out legislation on the matter, working on the development of electronic trade and taking necessary measures. These legislations are already patched. We're not on that side of the business. We're trying to figure out how to get some people, how to get rid of them, how to get any motion in between. However -- as a reward, I really -- whatever political party there was, it was to create the infrastructure of a legislation, something that would respond to decent, temporary needs, as well as the friends of the ruling party. What did he do two years ago anyway? It's a law that doesn't understand needs, and we know it. The regulations for the implementation of this law are now drawn up by the opinions of relevant institutions and organisations. The names of the institutions included in the article are already in the square. As we look at electronic trade from the angles I mentioned, it is clear that the draft Law on the Order of Electronic Trade, which was drafted in 2011, needed additional regulations in many topics, including the title of recognitions. I've just said that, and we'll continue to support it as it is, but I really want to renegotiate this in the Commission and say once again that the work that has been revealed by the time has been very dynamically revealed here, needs to be put together, to be added. The most important dimension of electronic trade is the importance of our SME. The law needs to be looked at from the point of view of the COBI. Electronic trade is a form of commerce that offers new opportunities for the SMEs. In this respect, it is a COBI that the law should be in a way that will help Turkish SMEs become more competitive in the field of e-trade. When he decides to do an e-trade, he should be able to follow the legal framework. Therefore, the Electronic Trade Law needs to be looked at in a whole way in order to develop electronic trade. In this respect, this law study must also have a disorganizing dimension of the disorganized institutional structure of electronic trade. The relevant part of electronic trade is that it seems very difficult for them to know which laws are their business and to find those laws. For example, think of it as an entrepreneur who decides to make electronic trade: The Turkish Trade Law will know that the issue is about consumer protection and you will reach Law on the Protection of the consumer. You'll know E-Investigator, Registered Electronic-Post System regulations on Orders and Basics, you'll know the Ministry of Finance's Taxation of E-Ticarets, you'll know the Law on Postal Services, you'll know the Law on Self-Construction and Protection of Personal Data in the Electronic Communications Sector. Don't drill here, I'm telling you specifically. Now, there is something added to the Commission in Article 6 of the bill. In particular, I'm going to make a statement from this point on the basis of cases: Let not the sentence that began with itself be misinterpreted in the third sentence of the 6th article of the bill be misused. The purpose of this judgment is to make it easier for those who provide goods or services to receive services such as care, use, or it cannot be used for advertising, even by interpretation. That's how it was discussed in the Commission, and I want the government to know. It goes on and on here; there's a chain of laws and regulations and institutional structures, so I won't take it from here. I just want to say that even with this structure, you're going to do e-commerce as a COBI. This bill would have to be handled once again from that point of view. The bill should not be tried to mortgage a public institution or an NGO to power for a period of less than two years, with its brakes on the Turkish Parliament's will. Each week, a subtitle will discuss the Electronic Trade Bill in order for AKP power to demonstrate how it governs the country. Despite the fact that it has been passed, it has been derided by society. At least these issues are based on the required legislation, and I'd like to rephrase the terms that we've set up for the time being, so that we can support the bill. I pay tribute to the high council for listening to me. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0123par0138	Thank you. Now on behalf of the individuals, Mr. Mehmet Ali Sesame. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0124par0142	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, tonight we are all considering a legal arrangement for electronic trade. Surely, as far as the world is concerned, electronic trade is an indispensable event, which is increasing its share in the market. So we're making a legal arrangement for this emerging business event. We've brought the legal arrangement to a common point, one dimension at a time, arguing with parties and commissions, but I'd like to share another dimension with you here today by taking a pledge on my behalf. Let's discuss the trade environment together with e-trade in Turkey. Trade in Turkey is increasingly at the point of gathering in the hands of a limited number of companies and forces. Unfortunately, that's the way it's happening in the world at the same time. See, shortly before that, the Nobel Prizes were announced. Do you know what the Nobel Prize for Economics was for the French Jean Tirole? He received his reward for economic regulation, as we call it. What did that bring? In the market, oligopol dominates the market, especially in the fundamental commercial areas of the public, in the areas of electricity distribution, in natural gas and other commercial areas, when the number of oligopol investors is very few, with a serious number of limited companies taking control of the market, and because there are no regulatory markets in the 2008 crisis in the United States, the reason why the Nobel Prize for Economics is given today is because there are no regulators in the United States during the 2008 crisis, let the economy in the United States, let them do it, let it pass, let it go, let them go, let the economy, because it's come in a dominant way of understanding, because there are no regulatory markets in the 2008 crisis. This economist also learned from these crises in the world, saying there is a need for a new arrangement. We make this law, but in terms of competition, I'd like to stress that Turkey's legal regulations have been abandoned to its own destiny in terms of serious price and market control. See, there are companies in this market that produce products at every stage in the factory, and the industry markets their goods and sells them electronically with logistics companies in every way. Mr. Minister, you are the Minister of Customs and Trade, the market share of small businesses, business people, is getting narrower and narrower through large capital, malls and hypermarkets. And in the E-carette, these firms are creating a lot of powers because they've become a lot of power. See, a Chinese company, Alibaba, cost 25 billion in the New York Stock Exchange. The first opening price is $34-36, the closing of the session is $99, and it's become a Chinese firm. Why did he find these prices? Because they controlled the market. Now, at the same point in Turkey, we face a serious problem, which has already narrowed down. See, when we look at the top 10 degrees in taxes, the first 8th place to win the money is the bank, and the next 2 companies to come after that are TelEkom (TELEKOM) and Turkcell. The first 10 companies are not trade and industry. So there's a market that's getting narrower, the trader can't make money, the industrialist can't make money, but he's gradually resuming a limited number of monopoly markets that dominate the market. What is the result of this? The result is a sales organization that determines production. Now, if you can't achieve this competition, and you leave production at a point where they bring the product they want to market, the Turkish industry will collapse, the Turkish merchant will collapse, and the Turkish trades will collapse. We'll all stay together under this collapse. We have to take precautions. I'm not saying we should ban e-commerce, but we should put up a competitive organization. In your administration, many of the institutions that have previously established the market in the form of independent institutions, such as the Banking Editing and Control Agency, such as the EPDK and so on, while independent, independent, autonomous institutions, during your time, these institutions have become political institutions, all of their appointments have been made by governments. So, in Turkey, the influence of independent organisations in the organisation of the market has been gradually reduced during your time, leaving the government under control. In this sense, I would like to emphasize here today: trade in Turkey is increasingly falling into the hands of a limited number of powerful companies. You might say: "The trade has come to this point. " But it also affects the production of the trade to come to this point. See, there are more and more sales points in retail that produce their own brand. There were so many sales points that these sales points made factories into fason production centers. The factory doesn't produce its own product, it produces products for these companies; one day it tells the factory that because it has no product in the market, you will produce my product at this price. When it doesn't produce it, it comes to the point where it locks on the door of its factory. Or he couldn't agree with someone at the price: build a production band, start producing it on my brand. There's an alternative, a new production space that immediately builds at that point, against an industrialized, manufactured, brand-made industry for years. These are now several major companies who have decided to put Turkish industry, Turkish production, Turkish products on the market, on the shelf. This is also very dangerous in Turkey, and very dangerous in the world. Today, in other areas as well, you've privatized the electricity market, the same thing is happening there. The same thing is happening in Turkey's TELEKOM. The natural gas market will add to it. When you look at all of this, it's the great oligopols that determine the price of the product, which determines the power of the citizen's purchase. And the world saw it and gave the Nobel Prize for Economics to scientists who had come up with an idea for the creation of regulatory, auditory institutions at the point of resolving it. As we passed this electronic law, we made the market to their own destiny, even international institutions, regardless of the arrangements to ensure this competitive environment. The Customs Union Agreement, which we signed with the European Union, will come to a point that will allow international companies to use the Turkish market as a second disadvantage in this sense. So as we speak about this law today, with this law, our small merchant, our marketplaces, our Underbelts, our Bursa Closed Market, our Istanbul Closed Market, our Antalya Kaleiçi, and all our other markets are in grave danger. It is not possible for them to be able to trade electronics on their own with software support. It can't be done if it doesn't have logistics. What could this logistics be? Like PTT, for example. In the logistical substructure of small businesses, the state must submit it to their command as an independent institution so that the market can only be audited. I've drawn your attention to these dangers and these dangers. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0125par0153	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. On behalf of the government, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Minister of Customs and Trade. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0126par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I'll be very brief, I'll tell you that first.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0127par0160	We're waiting too long. For example, we're waiting for you to tell us that you're bringing the hypermarket law to this House.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0126par0161	Yeah, let's start with that. About him, you know, the bill was sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and hopefully his talks will be held in the coming days, and hopefully it will be legalized, so let's start there. Now, first of all, I'd like to start by thanking our fellow officials and all the political party groups, our fellow lawmakers, who have been involved in drafting this bill. Dear friends, our conversational friends have also expressed that the volume of electronic trade has increased very rapidly in recent years, almost a geometric growth. Of course, it is vital that both the use of the Internet and the electronics trade are carried out, that they are controlled, that the regulation of these things, that they are regulated, and that a clearer, transparent trade environment and platform be presented. From this point of view, it's really a delayed arrangement. Perhaps these arrangements should have been made earlier, but as a result, we started meeting today at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly. Now, a very serious volume here, the fact that such a trade reaching numbers is conducted under its own rules by the body in charge of regulation, of course, brings a lot of problems. It's an extremely indisputable fact. As a matter of fact, right now, in Turkey -- from time to time it also reflects on the press -- we know that there have been significant problems with this issue, and we know that both the number and the intensity of it is increasing every day. Now, really, the internet usage rate in developed countries is around 80 percent. The ratio of electronic trade is also higher than the percentage of people who buy online from the Internet -- again 70 percent of people -- in average terms. In developed countries and Turkey, though not so much, these rates are quite striking and high. In Turkey, as of 2014 -- compared with the same period of 2013 -- 53 per cent of society uses the Internet, and 30.8 per cent of them trade electronically and grow rapidly. For example, last year it was 49 per cent and 24 per cent, so its rise from 24 per cent to 38 per cent a year shows that change, transformation, and development are also very fast. For all these reasons, these regulations, these rules had to be organized. Three basic arrangements are being made with the bill brought in. One is that the main goal is to protect consumers, to remove issues in the electronic environment that can bring trouble to consumers, to mislead them, or cause them to be misled, to remove these obstacles, to clear them. Second, providing a safe environment, creating a secure trade environment. Of course, in order to do that, of course, you have to bring in the custodians, you have to bring in the rules, you have to make arrangements for them in case they're not followed. I, very briefly, would like to share with you a few important arrangements brought in as headlines. For one thing, the sender's identity information should be accurate and accurate in the messages related to this. This is being recorded, and the consumer must be submitted to the user's approval. I mean, without his approval, without his consent, a commercial message will definitely not be sent. There are some very small exceptions, which will not be sent out, and the identity and communication information in these messages will be very accurate and clear, and the issue, purpose and whose name it was made for, and the need to be made clear to whom it was sent in the name of this communication, the trade, the message. The buyers, if they want to, at any stage, about the messages they've already approved, they can deny it, they can cancel it, they have the opportunity at any stage, and they need to be provided with the ability to reject it in a very easy, cheap, accessible way, so, a mechanism such as rejection, deletion of the power of rejection, is strictly prohibited, under the rule, and should be cut off within three days of the rejection of the message. Now, especially when the whole goal is to protect consumers' rights, and those who are shopping in this electronic environment, of course, these rules, regulations need to be implemented, and in the event of their violations, they need to be implemented as well. In some cases, though, some speaker friends have been brought in, given these sentences, and their dues, depending on the state of the action, the condition of the transaction -- between $1,000 and $15,000 -- and in some cases, they can increase it to 10 times as much. There have been thoughts that these provisions, these amounts, these fines, will not be deterrents, but after one application, if any of the implementation results come to light that they are not really enough, then, of course, they can also be made available. Now, dear friends, finally, again, this law has been carried out on the commission from the start, in accordance with the agreement of the groups, which has just been expressed by our fellow speakers. So from that understanding, we came to the point of view of some changes that we believe to be made -- and in this way, we presented the motion that we had prepared for this purpose to the groups -- even at the beginning of the law talks -- to groups as soon as they started. Because we believed he needed to edit two things, we submitted that proposal, his draft, to the groups. One of them, the bill, would basically include a sign of trust, and the mechanism of trust. So, again, it is not part of this bill, especially about the use of a sign of trust that will contribute to the creation of a more transparent trade in the electronic environment. Our first suggestion was that in order to address this lack, we had a motion that authorized our Ministry to arrange this issue, and that was the first. The second is that right now, trade, real and legal individuals can do companies, registrations, electronically, even without going to the notary, with reliable signatures. At the moment, our legislation allows it, and its infrastructure will soon be completed and available to use. Now, there's a problem here: a user made the registration or change of the company in electronic environment, without going to the notary, by using this choice, with reliable signature, complete, without paying any fee, without going anywhere in the electronic environment, but for the ad, he had to apply to the printed mechanism again, pay a price, and declare the registration there. But we feel that it really doesn't apply to the core, the logic of the arrangement, so we've come up with this proposal. If such a company has been established or registered in such a way, by means of reliable signature, not going to the notary in electronics, let the ads and the ad mechanism be completed in electronics again. So that was our motion, because there was also a price being paid, both the price being paid, and all the transactions being completed in the electronic environment from beginning to end, to the very short, bureaucratic, all the steps being eliminated. So it's applied all over the world. Indeed, when we look at it, these processes are completed in electronics, without applying to any additional authority or paying any price. Now, I think there's been a misunderstanding here. Oh, if he doesn't prefer the electronic medium mechanism, then he'll go to the Trade Register again, print it, and pay for it. If he wanted to use this choice electronically, he would have been given the opportunity. But in the end, as I said, the group didn't take kindly to our proposal because it came to this point with a consensus or a co-worker of all groups, so we've already drawn up our proposal. So that's what we're here to bring in, and of course we respect an agreement like this, undisputedly. When the groups didn't agree to this, we did, too, but that's what we think. Because, as a result, using this electronic environment, it's all been done; then it doesn't matter if it's a "b" to an authority or an NGO to go to an ad. We have absolutely no idea of the purpose of shutting him down at that point. Because there's an increment, a blackout in the electronic environment from the beginning to the end of the process, and it's a math to the purpose of completing that process, but because it came in agreement, and because the groups don't agree with this proposal, we have to draw this suggestion, and we need to specify that here. Hopefully, today, tonight, this bill will be enforced. Again, I'd like to thank everyone, all of our deputies, our bureaucrat friends and groups who have worked so hard to get to this point so far. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0128par0184	Thank you. On behalf of the individuals, the last word is Mr. Mehmet Erdogan of Gaziantep. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0129par0188	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the Bill of Law on the Order of Electronic Trade. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear friends, when I interviewed this electronic trade, I chaired the Commission. I'd like to thank all of our representatives, who are in charge of the Commission and who are in agreement here, from lawmakers of the opposition, both in power and in agreement. This law has been a very important law because in recent years the volume of trade in electronic trade has been increasing at a very rapid rate. Today, the rate of electronic trade in Turkey is at 30 per cent of all trade, which is a large number. Of course, what's important here is that unwanted messages... that seriously bother everyone, that you don't expect, that you get dozens, sometimes more constant messages, and that you see in most of these messages, in products, in advertising, you see that the quality of the goods you want doesn't come, or you see that you're being cheated on by a number above what it's worth. For him, all these measures were needed, and these laws were regulated. The differences between Turkish legislation and European Union legislation also needed to be resolved. Of course, when we get to these points, we look at the volume of the world's electronic trade at $1.25 trillion, and we see that the volume of electronic trade has reached 34.6 billion euros per year in our country, and the volume of European e-trade has reached 312 billion euros, or $429 billion. Of course, our measures to protect citizens and ensure a safe increase in trade volume and increase both the $500 billion export figure and domestic trade figures, our 2023 goal. Of course, the most important thing here is to have confidence. For this, there was also a requirement for the fulfillment of the principle of transparency in the electronic environment, and measures have been taken to meet this condition. However, with this law, we remove the barrier to the growth of trade volumes regularly. Because, when the law wasn't in order, there was a pessimism, a volume of shopping in a caramel, and as this continued to go on, the consumer was often seriously victimized. Unfortunately, our country is in first place in the European countries. Well, with that law, we'll have the first time we've done that. Of course, Internet use has also increased to 30.8 per cent -- the rate of individuals ordering or buying goods for personal use on the Internet as well as for personal use. Last year, the previous year, 2012, when we discussed this law, it was 24 percent, so it increased 14% in a year. Again, there are two general arrangements for this bill. The first is the obligations provided for those who provide information and services in contracting electronics. When these obligations are examined, it is more about the ability of the buyer of electronic services to recognize the goods or services that can be bought, preventing information that can mislead a person. The other is that mistakes are allowed to be corrected later. The second area is related to unwanted e-mails. Again, as I mentioned earlier, our country, unfortunately, is at the head of countries where unwanted e-mails are spreading. The sending of commercial messages will be subject to a pre-existing warrant. But let me make it very clear that the merchants and merchants are not subject to that judgment because a wholesaler who works with a shopkeeper doesn't have to ask his permission every time, because he's already been given permission. Again, by bringing certain standards with electronic trade, e-trade is intended to increase our volume of commerce by providing credibility. The other one, the wrong price information. For example, in the process of confirming the order while shopping on the Internet, false information is being given, higher than the fee reported to the buyer on various grounds, or the citizen is being victimised by unwanted electronic messages. In order to prevent deception of buyers, certain obligations have been brought to the service provider, both in pre-contract and in the process of contracting. These obligations are aimed at presenting the service providers' self-recognising information to the technical steps to the establishment of the contract, where data errors can be corrected. However, these provisions will pave the way for the sector, not with heavy and demanding obligations that will negatively affect the sector, but with its credibility for e-trade. With this bill, trust will be provided on the websites, the service buyer will be able to identify the real or corporate person behind this page, so that when he has a problem with the product or the service, he will be able to find out who he can apply to, which register number or what business room he is registered in, and which business room he can find his address. This bill will allow consumers and buyers to be able to shop with reliable electronic tools and bring certain standards to electronic trade. To maintain that trust, transparency and accessibility are essential in the electronic environment. Therefore, this bill has been drafted to ensure trust and transparency for those involved in electronic trade and to address legal problems that have arisen to meet some obligations, to ensure harmony between the European Union's legislation on the issue and Turkish legislation. I wish the law on the arrangement of electronic trade to be good for our country, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0130par0201	Thank you. Moving on to QA. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0131par0204	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's the thing: Istanbul 7. With Executive Court number 2013/1518, there is now a grove in the town of Validebağ, Üskudar, construction in the woods. Although the court on this construction has decided to stop the execution, the municipality is not listening to the court's decision to stop this execution. A lawyer is in custody, a member of the press is in custody. The job of the press is to enlighten the public, inform the public about what's going on. I condemn the detention of this journalist, and at the same time, the minister's attorney is the public defender, the attorney's office under the freedom of rights. It's a real scandal to have friends taken into custody in connection with the duties of both lawyers and members of the press. Will the Minister's office take action on this matter? Because, as far as we know, they've been walking in that grove a lot, working out. Indeed, it's a place where people breathe. How do they feel about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0132par0207	Mr. Sesame, come in.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0133par0208	I asked the Minister in his speech earlier. I've been in this Parliament for eight years, and I asked every minister of commerce when will you bring the law of the hypermarket? Each minister said, "We'll bring it soon, we'll get it out." Eight years have passed, and this law has not been passed to Parliament. Now once again, Mr. Canicli, I ask the Minister: When will you bring this law and when will we meet in this Parliament? I'd appreciate it if they could make that clear.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0132par0210	Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0134par0211	Mr. President, of course, Mr. Deputy Director of Justice and Development of the Justice and Development Party -- he is a lawyer -- should not treat a lawyer as a lawyer, as a terrorist, as an anarchist. I condemn him because of his sentence. The lawyer is there to perform his duty.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0132par0212	I didn't hear it.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0134par0213	In countries where lawyers are detained, there is despotism, authoritarianism. It's not acceptable for a group of vice presidents to say that to lawyers, especially as colleagues. My request from the Minister of the Ministry is that it is our duty to protect a forest that is the property of the people, which is the property of the people. As a result, the 32nd Article of the Environmental Law and its ongoing provisions... it is a duty for every citizen to protect the environment. So, my request from you is that we have no other world to live in; we all share a common life, a healthy environment. I urge the Minister to act on this immediately.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0135par0216	Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0136par0217	Thank you, Mr. President. First, regarding Mr. Sesame's question... I've just tried to answer that question on the stand. On 13 August 2014, this bill was sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is currently President of Turkey. In the coming days -- so, of course, it's not right to give a calendar from here -- it's about the Parliament's working content, but we plan to see it in commissions and the General Assembly as soon as possible. I mean, it came as a result.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0137par0219	We await your initiative, your support, your leadership.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0136par0220	Of course. And I know there are very important arrangements, and hopefully when we start negotiations, it will come out, and the commission will have the necessary contributions by you. In fact, there's an arrangement there that is very closely linked to the question you're asking about. Five percent of the malls are...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0137par0221	It doesn't matter.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0136par0222	But it's an important arrangement. ...people who enter into the definition of an artist and an artist have to be given rent. This 5 percent is a very serious number. Hopefully, if its implementation is carried out regularly, it will pave the way for our tradesman and artist to be in the malls, where they will be operating. You could actually say, oh, how regularly is the application applied? It's a different matter, but it's a very important arrangement for our tradesman and artist, if it can be realized in a way that suits its purpose.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0137par0224	It'll turn out to be the producers from the marketplaces.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0136par0225	In addition, he must allocate the part of a thousand to our tradesman and artist who are now operating in areas that are about to disappear, and the rent for them must be one-fourth of the track price according to this bill. So hopefully he'll solve the problems in a large way about that issue that hasn't really been resolved for many years. Now, about the Motherhood of Mr. Tanal.... yes, indeed, for many years there, we took advantage of that opportunity as a hiking ground. Of course, I obviously don't have any detailed information about him, but as far as I can see from the press, I do. Now, once in a while, I'm gonna try to talk to some of the relevant friends, and if I get any information, I'm gonna try to get it to you from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0138par0229	Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0139par0230	Sir, the 10th article of the bill refers to one person or more than one person in four years. Mr. Secretary, is this legal technique appropriate? Likewise, the 11th article of the bill has a sufficient experience. There's no clear determination in this criteria. Why was such an undeterminating expression used? I'd like your opinion on this. I mean, it's got to be more specific in terms of law-enforcement. There is not enough experience. This is not the thing. There is no determination in terms of the criteria. In your view, a person is sufficient, and may not be for another person. In that way, would they open it up a little bit? Here's the 10th article, which is called one or more people for four years, either call it one, or call it two. I mean, one or more.......... the round concept, the word is not in line with the law technique; do they not think to correct it?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0140par0234	Dear Line...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0141par0235	Mr. President, thank you. I just got word that Mr. Mahmut Tanal mentioned my name. Mother's Grove and Baseküdar are a place where I live, too. I know the legal disputes there. Mr. Tanal just came to Mr. Doğan and me, talking about a court order, and he brought me a copy of the court order, and I said I'd look into it and answer him as soon as possible. Nevertheless, he took the initiative to make the issue political material. There are some issues where political material can't be done, especially in my profession and in my own work, where I don't give anyone a say in what I do, and that's not the right. I've done my job as a lawyer for many years, and I've always defended my colleagues. This is an area owned by the mayorate of Üsküdar, and the mosque is under construction. The day before or the day before has been made into a number of parables. I don't know anything about a lawyer being arrested, that's his statement. I don't know why he was arrested, and we don't know if he was arrested or taken in. Even though I don't know what's going on, I also blame him for bringing it up by making political material, and I condemn him. I don't think the mayor of Üsküdar is doing anything against the law on this matter, but with respect to my constituents, I will examine the matter and inform the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0142par0240	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0143par0241	Mr. President, thank you. The ruling party's deputy group's statement is naturally incomplete. For some reason, they don't know about any arrests, custody, they see everything as a noun. Right now, I'm saying things that happen during the day. There's been an incident going on for three days. A lawyer was taken into custody there, two journalists were taken into custody, others were dragged out of their hair, beaten to death, and trees were removed. There's only one thing we citizens want: keep the green area there, keep the trees out. But the insistence of building mosques, where there's a mosque about 500 meters away, where there's four spaces, and where the City of Skopje has sold four mosques to finances, is nothing more than the plainness of showing citizens against the mosque. No one's against the mosque. A large mosque is being built in a very nearby area, at the request of the former Prime Minister, a mosque is being built at the request of the President...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0142par0244	Yes, finish your promise.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0144par0245	Mr. President, that's beside the point.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0143par0246	Nearby there are four mosques within 500 meters, in which the mayor of Skopjedar is doing very recklessly. One of the things about recklessness is that we've given them a hundred percent, and they're very few, and they're saying things that mean something. I condemn the use of the word "aggressed" against the people of a mayor, and I want that Deputy Group President who approves of everything he does to the mayor to be sensitive about it, and I think he should talk to the mayor. Because there's a lot of serious trouble there. Your people there...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0142par0247	Now, look, you're back, alone, if you finish...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0143par0248	Okay. Despite the public, the AKP had to understand that nothing could be done there, and they still don't. They're trying to separate these people from mosque enemies or mosque lovers. The only thing out there is the green area problem. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0145par0251	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0146par0252	Thank you, Mr. President. The criticism that Mr. Tanal put in terms of the bill's 10th and 11th Articles can come into many, many different meanings. I mean, I think there's no expression there that can be understood because it clearly regulates the responsibility of the 10th article provider and the middleman, which he says is responsible for hiding them. It can't be passed on to the third, it can't be used for other purposes. So, I didn't see your statement in the 10th article. The same is true of the 11th article. And only the Ministry is authorized there, very clearly. Was it mixed with another substance? Maybe. Because there is no argument, any different understanding, or uncertainty in Articles 10 and 11. So there doesn't seem to be any problem here in that sense. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0147par0256	Now, Mr. Counsellor and Mr. Tanal, you're back in the system. If this is about the Validebag, it's not about the question-and-answer process, but I've allowed you, as a congressman, to talk in question-answer. Under normal circumstances, you had the opportunity to bring up the Validebagak for just one minute, according to the 60th article, but I provided you with the opportunity to express your opinion. Now, if you're going to talk about the same thing, Mr. Tanal, I can't make that promise because I'm going to break the Civil Code for the 5th or 6th time, but -- we have time -- but if you're going to repeat the question to the Minister about what you said about it, then I promise you, Mr. Tanal, okay? I mean, otherwise, according to the 60th article, it's only over because it's been given 50 times, so I'll put it that way. Do not put me in a difficult position over and over again concerning the Civil Code. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0148par0258	Dear President, when I was just taking a pledge, I didn't take the 60th article, I took it as a question-and-answer. Since you're so sensitive. I'll start now because Mr. Belma Line teased me with respect to your sensibilities.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0147par0259	If it's the bullying, come here. Now, with Mrs. Belma...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0149par0261	Based on what, what did I say and pick on you?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0147par0262	No, anyway, you've gone into combat.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0149par0263	Of course not.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0147par0264	Okay, now you're going to answer from here. What I'm trying to say to each of you, lawmakers: Now, the QA is something else, the 60th article is something else, the bullying is something else.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0150par0265	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but there's been some bullying from the bench. There's no bullying from the bench. You can't promise no hard feelings.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0147par0266	Let him speak now, and I will give it to him. Everyone started with each other. Let's go! Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0151par0270	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0152par0272	Mr. President, but one job can't be left unfinished. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0151par0273	Of course, here, Mr. Belma Line, together, jointly, we've all been in cases, we've been in cases we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, we've been in, But I ordered detention, I didn't order arrest. The arrest is a different institution, detention is a different institution; it is useful for a lawyer of years to separate these concepts, reports here. Two: I have an official decision from the Istanbul Supreme Court. The decisions of the Supreme Court are bound by the laws of the Constitution, by the law, by the administration, by the judiciary, by everyone. As a result, it's not really acceptable that the city of Üsküdar does not recognize this court decision. There's a lot going on here, and there's a lot of profit here. Despite the will of the people, they introduced the mentalist mosque card to the public, thinking that despite the court's ruling, it could not build it. In fact, sacrifice yourself to the mosque. If there really is a need for mosques, I have a place to live, my home is in Skeküdar. I am giving my place, and the mosque must be built. I mean, if there's a need for mosques, it's all religious, it's family people, and we support it from the heart, but it's not the mosque, it's the mosque card, it's the rant account. What is it here? Look, these are people against the mosque. It's a total lie. I mean, they couldn't defeat the will of the people, they couldn't defeat the court's decision, what can we do? We can only cover it with the mosque. That's the point. This is abuse of rights; this is a trick; this is a deception of the people, of the use of religious politics. So, my question from you is, don't call lawyers anarchists. Lawyering is a right-seeking profession. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The members of the press carry out their duties. The detention of members of the press also means restricting the right to public learning and information.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0153par0278	Yes, thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0151par0279	I thank you and your sensitivity, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0154par0280	May I?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0153par0281	Mr. Row, come in. When treated according to the Civil Code, there is no problem. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0155par0286	Mr. President, my fellow members of Congress, I am not a member of a party that is in power with the show. Out of respect for you and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I will not respond out of respect for the President. I wish you all good work. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0153par0289	Thank you, Mr. Row. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0156par0294	Mr. President, I have a...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0153par0295	No, you don't have that, you've talked outside the question-answer process long enough, and I've talked the 60th item five times...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0156par0296	There were eight minutes, but there was still...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0153par0297	Okay? If you have any questions, I can promise you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0156par0298	I'm just gonna ask questions.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0153par0299	Look, if this ever comes up, I'll turn it off.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0156par0300	No, I'm just gonna ask questions.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0153par0301	Oh, you'll ask questions, of course, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0156par0302	Mr. President, thank you for your sensitivity. It is our greatest desire for this House to operate like this and act according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0153par0303	The biggest review comes from your party, your group, so we're trying to fit in.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0156par0304	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary if four mosques in Skopje have been sold to the Ministry of Finance or not? I just want an answer to that, that's all.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0157par0306	Mr. President, will you intervene, that's the question?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0156par0307	Whether I have the right or not, I have the right to ask you...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0158par0308	No, you have the right to ask questions, various kinds of questions have been asked so far. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0159par0310	We don't have any information on that right now. I'll take this up with my friend, the Minister of Finance, and I'll try to get them to respond to you in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0158par0312	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first chapter covers 1 to 9th Articles. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Adana MP Umit Özsüşümümük has asked for a comment on the first chapter. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0160par0320	Mr. President, I've been promised the Legislators of Electronic Trade, the Bill of Legislatives. I salute the General Assembly. Communication, technology, the IT sector, or technology that began in the mid - 20th century in the world in particular, is developing at a stunning rate, becoming impossible to follow and encompassing us in every aspect of life. In health, in education, in trade, in agriculture or in all areas, it is rapidly improving. In electronic trade, as we're talking about today, progress is also developing at a stunning rate, and traditional, as we know it, is rapidly shifting to electronic trade. In 2013, according to official figures, the IT sector improved 11.3 per cent, but the rate of development of electronic trade is around 30 per cent. Again, estimates suggest that in 2050, around 80 percent of the world's trade or more than 80 per cent of it will also be done in electronic trade. Dear friends, the dialectic philosophy, which is my guide to understanding the world, talks about the dynamic of change in the universe as well as infrastructure and superstructure institutions. Technology's development, production tools cover infrastructure and trade, laws, culture, sociological behavior is the upper structure. The dialectic philosophy says that as substructure develops, such as production tools and technology, it affects and forces this exponential structure to change. (The development of technology and electronic trade in the world today forces us to change the laws, new concepts, like the Internet, new concepts, access, service providers, and so on should be included in the law. In that sense, this electronic trade law was mandatory. But the same dialectic philosophy says that if we accept this law today, the development of technology from tomorrow morning, the development of production tools will start to wear out from tomorrow, and it will not be enough. Dear friends, there's a new process that begins in the United States of America, which is that the classical, established trade firms we know about when the world's trade moves into electronic trade, the trade firms in the store, are taking new measures against this competition of electronic trade, and they're developing new instruments. For example, in the United States of America, there are also some technologies that some multinational stores are now developing to protect themselves from the competition of electronic trade. One of them is that when you go to the store, to shift the knowledge of the contents of those goods that were sold in electronics to those stores, information about what was sold as a touch on the window of the windows, information about the contents, content, construction, and perhaps as important as that, some stores now can see the thoughts of people using this stuff from outside, or they can try on the top of the mirror without going into their dressing cabinets through interactive mirrors. Now, that's one of the things that I just said is that this law is going to get old from tomorrow, because in the coming process, there's going to be new disagreements, new concepts. You went into the store, you went into the interactive mirror, and you chose your shirt, but it didn't fit. Is this going into established trade, or is this going into electronic trade, which is going to become controversial, and I don't think this is going to happen in the year of the legislature, but in the coming period, a new law will have to come, and that process will continue. Now, dear friends, Turkey has to capture one end of rapidly developing IT technology, the IT sector. Turkey missed the industrial revolution, failed to catch the industrial revolution. Now, Turkey still hasn't caught an industrial society model as the world moves to the IT sector, the trans-industrial society model. So we have to protect consumers who are going to be hurt by electronics when we're organizing electronic trade, while we're going to have to protect companies who are doing electronics and working in software, so that we can catch one end of it, and not miss the industry. What we discussed the most in the Law on Editing Electronic Trade, the subcommittee, the commission, is actually the 6th article of the law. Mr. Secretary was just speaking, and he tried to explain to me that the arrangement in Article 6 is in the best interest of consumers, but to me, that's where he's most vulnerable. There are two ways in the world to block unwanted commercial e-mails: in one, companies send an e-mail for the first time, and the consumer, the user, has the right to reject it, calling it "executors." The second, as the Minister just said, is an e-mail, or rather a pre-existing right to send commercial e-mails, which they call it. Now, we've asked for the implementation of the upt-out system here on the subcommittee and commissions. So if a company has worked, developed a product, send it to the consumer, the user for the first time, and see what it is, the consumer sees it, but in the same e-mail, it has the right to reject it and never take it again. In fact, that won't be necessary because the 8th article says that the consumer may refuse to receive commercial e-mails without any justification. So the companies that produce so much, so many employees, have the right to introduce their products once and for all to develop electronic trade in Turkey, and they need to develop. Mr. Sesame just told me about the Alibaba firm, founded in 1999, 15 years ago. Today, there are 25,000 people working at Alibaba's firm, and it's worth $168 billion in 2014. Its purpose is to market Chinese goods to the world. They've been very successful, and right now the New York Stock Exchange has a quota of $168 billion company value. Now, we need new companies to sell our products to the world, and we need companies to develop software about it. So the law that we make here isn't really consumer law, it's not consumer protection law, it's electronic trade law. This is the weakest, most wrong part of the law. In some cases, we've had some objections in a few sentences, in some details, but the main point is here, and if the 6th item is not changed, there's no way that Turkey's new world brand of electronics is going to come out of it. The companies that are going to do electronic trade and software here are not social institutions, not companies that are going to build this sector or to promote itself, but companies that the government must direct and encourage. So if you think it's appropriate, when the 6th article comes in, we'll say, "Let's change it with a motion." The IT industry includes some very important problems, as electronic relations make life easier. It's impossible for all of it to be corrected within this law, but other laws need to be changed quickly. And that is: compilation of data in the Internet environment, and that data becomes commercial meta. Currently, when you enter a hotel in Italy three times on the Internet, when you open the 4th time you look at the ads of hotels in Italy or very high-end cars in Italy, the ads of those companies come when you open the 3rd. This may also include measures that limit human rights and freedoms, and other laws require proper regulations. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0161par0332	Thank you, Mr. Ozgimi. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Ilk. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0162par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the first chapter of the Law Bill on the Order of Electronic Trade, 240 rows under discussion. On behalf of my group and myself, I hereby salute you all. First of all, I see the Minister's promise to remove this as soon as possible in the law known as the law of the hypermarkets, at least as an important promise to the High Council and to our beloved nation. Because before him, the two ministers, Mr. Zafer Çağlan and Mr. Nihat Ergün gentlemen, who had promised that this would be taken out soon after the question we had asked them in the Commission, but in their time there was a misfortune, a prime minister who wanted the neighborhood grocery stores closed; perhaps because of that, this law was not on the agenda of the House, but now we are at a time when there is no such Prime Minister. I believe this bill, according to the Minister's promise, will come to this great House as soon as possible. As a matter of fact, it's a real joy that the bill was passed to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 13 August 2014, and it's a good step in that sense, and I hope that the High Assembly will law it as soon as possible. On the other hand, this bill, which we first discussed, is unfortunately presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 2010, but is discussed four years later. In spite of all these four years, there have been significant developments in the IT sector in both the world and Turkey in the four years between the time the bill was submitted to parliament, and it is clear that serious regulations that require updating the current bill have been needed. However, I would like to point out that at the end of a very intense work by the members of the Commission, we have to postpone our right to these regulations to another date because there is a unanimous and no party has written a bill on opposition, and there is a bill on which all groups agree on the General Assembly, because it is an important issue, as well. On this occasion, we think it is very important that both the number of transactions of electronic trade and the volume of money that is being processed along with this process be implemented quickly in a world that is growing rapidly every day and in our country. Again, Turkey's TTNET company has been one of its major issues in the past two years. I'd like to share the data again with the Supreme Assembly as a misfortune that has not been resolved so far, as a result of the fact that personal data has been sold through a company that has been banned from processing in many countries of Europe. Minister, this is the travel through the Phorm Solutions company. I say that the allegations that people's private information has been marketed on the combook site have been moved to the judiciary, but the fact that it hasn't been concluded so far is at least an important issue to be followed by you. So I'd like to say that this bill has to be passed and implemented immediately, and that there's a bill that will remove many people's discomforts in many matters. Because without permission, private information will be taken into the hands of others, bringing with it other dangers. It's not just about trade secrets, and it's important for biological data, so it's important for people from blood type to parent connection, T.C. All our citizens are concerned that other information may fall into the hands of others in many matters until the identity number. At least this bill has some provisions that may at least partially interfere with them. Another issue: Many new regulations have been referred to in the draft as secondary legislation, or regulations. At least in the process of removing these regulations, given the current data and the present location, if a delicate study is done, I'd like to say that we have the opportunity to address a lot of things that are lacking in the bill. Dear lawmakers, of course the IT industry is something that we're all very interested in, at least from our cell phones to the computers that we use, we're all dealing with very closely. It is an important provision that in certain matters, especially some unwanted data or messages or e-mails will be left to people's preferences. If not, millions of companies have the openness that we can say hundreds of times a day, perhaps thousands of messages, to reach out to any person or people, and to process them in any way, to actually cause time problems, as well as to cause some legal difficulties. This bill is very important to us, at least in this sense. Another issue: Of course, the implementation date referred to 2013 because in 2012, it was envisioned for the implementation of this bill, which had been completed in all commissions, both in the commission and in the main commission, which was now assumed to be on the agenda of the General Assembly, as of 2013, of course. We've given the ruling party's officials our opinion that it would be more accurate to put it into effect as of January 1st, 2015. I think with a motion to make about that, this flaw will be met. I would like to thank all our friends, all our deputies, who are in charge of all party groups, especially the subcommittee who have been involved in making the bill this way. There's been some serious contributions. That's what happened at the end of a very busy work period. Also, the bureaucrats of the relevant ministries have contributed valuablely to inform the commissioners of this issue, as well as to many other matters, causing the bill to turn into this. I'd like to thank everyone who's passed the job. I'd like to extend my regards to everyone who's working on the e-commerce again, to every firm and to every certainty.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit05spe0163par0347	Thank you, Mr. Light. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0163par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 8th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of the Bill of Law on Editing Electronic Trade. The Commission and the Government are here. Now, in the first part of the bill, it's in the name of the people, Mr. Yusuf Halaçoğlu of Kayseri. Here you go, Hajji.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0164par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow congressmen, I salute you. Of course e-commerce is extremely important. Almost, today, he's won a lot more territory in turn than in normal trade. So it's very important that this is taken care of. We don't already object to it as a party, we even support it, I want to express it specifically. But, of course, when the electronic environment develops at this rate, you have to be very careful with the hackers, and you have to control them. On the other hand, I think electronic communication should be organised very well. Now, for example, we see that the talks between the President and the Prime Minister are in a lot of discrepancies. And I think there's a good use in setting up a good electronic system. Because the President says: Every support given to the PYD is given to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). That's right, both the PKK and the PYD are extensions of the same organization and terrorist organizations. But while he was saying it, in his meeting with Obama, he says: "I have offered to go to Kobani. " But Obama immediately denies it behind his back, says Ben. When you look at it, you might think, "Who is telling the truth? Now, if supporting the NYD is supporting the PKK -- who said that, Mr. President -- then that means supporting the PYD, which means supporting the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). So I think Obama is telling the truth. Therefore, I see a benefit in bringing up such matters. Dear lawmakers say they have no idea why the Kobani issue is so strategically important to the United States, Mr. President. But if you don't know that, you can't sit at a table with the PKK, you can't strategize, you can't conduct foreign policy on these areas. Then you shouldn't be sitting there. So what the PKK wanted to do, what the PYD wanted to do, came out today, they decided to form a state. In fact, an autonomous state or administration will pose a huge threat to Turkey, which will occur in northern Iraq and northern Syria, as in northern Iraq. Thus, these areas established in both regions will surely affect Turkey. As a matter of fact, the pathways are open and the terrorist is supplied with a secretariat. A member of Kandil is also given to the secretariat to be provided. So if you put on a red phone, you'll be able to talk a lot more freely, and you'll be able to negotiate. On the other hand, Prime Minister Davutoglu says we play a fine game of chess in this southeast policy. Now, you're playing a chess game with his castle down, his horse out of the game, his queen out of the picture. You can't possibly not lose the chess game in such an environment, and you're going to lose. I again warn the government that Article 92 of the Constitution is very clear and clear and that the presence of armed forces of the Republic of Turkey or other armed forces should be found in Turkey. It's a constitutional offense. I urge you to pay attention to this again and say that you have committed a constitutional crime and that one of Turkey's greatest dangers in the future will occur on this occasion. Indeed, now, sir, the PYD does not want the Shredge. Although it is said that there is actually a PKK in Turkey trying to control the government with open and specific blackmail, and I specifically declare that the solution process will not work with it, and there has been a major traffic accident in Şırnak just today under the name of the PKK, trying to cover it up with a number of false statements. I wish this to be taken care of. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0165par0017	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. The last word on behalf of his subjects belongs to Mr. Turgay Develi, the Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Develi.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0166par0020	Mr. President, I've come to the stand to testify to my testimony at the CIT Commission that another trade has taken its head in public institutions and corporations while speaking on behalf of the law on the organisation of electronic trade. I advise the members of the Justice and Development Party to listen carefully to these facts in the presence of our great nation. In the past few days, while the Bank of Provinces was being audited, the valued lawmakers have witnessed the establishment of a robbery that has been under way for nearly ten years. There's been so much corruption, so much irregularity that even our fellow AK PARTY members in the Commission's consciences have not been able to defend the institution. I'll give you an example: Since about ten years ago, contractors and contractors have been asking for cars. Even though there is no connection to any work, contracts and conditions are included in the agreements that the firm that received the tender gave a vehicle to the administration. The number the Court has determined for 2011 has risen to 31, 2012, and to 79. Do you guys know what it's like to run these cars? By handing them over to the second people, even third parties, they charge the contractors for their car costs, fuel costs, even traffic tickets. Friends who have been identified with the documents presented under the executives of the AK PARTI, or AK PARTI, which is the vehicle taken from the developers of the Bank of Provinces. The Turkish version of this is: The Bank of Provinces, which has a fleet of bribes, and it uses it to the AK PARTI. I offer this to the discretion of our great nation. The second incident is happening again at the Bank of Provinces, at the centre of Ankara. Again, a company has been receiving a transfer contract from the County Bank for over a decade. Every two years this goes on, there's a tender, the same firm wins each contract. Although the condition of this firm says it will provide transport within 3,800km of Ankara, the Court has determined that this is 2,200km, and the price of 1,600km of vehicles is being paid extra for fuel. I'm just talking about two tenders, guys, just two bids. What did you do about these transactions? We got their money back. They said, "We have taken it back." They said, "On the notice of the court." So we said, what did you do about the managers who condoned this abuse, provided them with a means of subjugation, prescribing the contract, and offered it to the executives of the AK PARTY? He said we didn't do anything. Your system...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0167par0024	Public interest...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0166par0025	Let's hope we can talk about that public interest in another matter. It's a very simple proof of how the system decays, how it's not controlled, my friends. Today, we have come across a document that the Ministry of Energy has censored the Court, saying, "Don't have the Ministry of Energy reviews by the ministries or by the CITs." One thing at a time, we're going to talk about these things. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0168par0029	Thank you. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Thank God. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second section includes between 10 and 16th articles, including temporary matter 1. Well, we have six items here. Mr Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group over the department. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0169par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, we're discussing a law that's been waiting a very long time. In fact, it's been waiting for three or four years, but if you look at its history, it's been decided since the '90s, but it's a radically unorganized area, except for a number of dressing measures. As you know, in 1997, the High Council of Sciences and Technology decided, but the coordinators, they were a bill that had been on the agenda for three or four years. We are making an important arrangement for closing the current deficit, which is Turkey's most important problem, the foreign trade deficit. So electronic trade is a very late application in today's age, and its substructure, its legal substructure, its secondary legislation, must be updated with urgency, and the necessary arrangements must be made. Of course, it doesn't end with that, it doesn't end with just enforcing the laws of e-trade. On the one hand, we're building a law to support it, but on the other hand, we're making arrangements that will destroy the freedom of enterprise, which will spook the foreign investor, Mr. Secretary. You're the new Minister now, for the best, but the most important thing in the economy is property rights, freedom of enterprise. If you can't protect him... well, what do we bring in from the side? We bring legal provisions, reasonable doubt, to seize property of a citizen. What about the physical evidence on the other side? These are gone. Frankly, how will our arrangement now serve its purpose? We'll come and invest here. Let's draw foreign investors to reduce the external trade deficit. But on the other hand, we're going to reverse these legal regulations, and in three months, we're going to make some adjustments again in six months. Unfortunately, in this business, it's causing that investor to get spooked, and besides the political uncertainty, it's causing economic uncertainty. Then we all go out together, and we get angry that these companies are considering political uncertainty, and why are they considering these legal provisions? Look, the main thing here is a legal guarantee. When we can't do that, there's no way we're going to solve this problem with an increase of 1-2 billion dollars to regulate this electronic trade. Therefore, first, it is necessary to ensure that the legal security is provided by the state of law and that investment is guaranteed to those who come from abroad and foreign nationals as well as to those who come from abroad. The citizen will do it now, for any reason, we have seen reasonable doubt, so let's seize it. So this has to be handled in a whole way. Indeed, there is a part of the arrangements that is necessary, but that is not enough. Our friends fixed it in the subcommittee, we got it out, okay, problem solved, our foreign trade deficit closed? On the one hand, when I was implementing other policies, I really thought it was strange to bring them from the other side, so it's a very strange practice of law. There's a bunch of hard evidence, and suddenly, 50 or so people are being evacuated. So, what's on the other side? Someone who wrote an unrelated book, someone who wrote an article here is being brought in for reasonable doubt, and if those laws come out the way they're designed to be, confiscating, permitting, questioning some of the property of a citizen, on the contrary, if a citizen suddenly falls in here, without any concrete evidence, I'm afraid we're not going to be able to be able to proceed. I don't understand, I mean, our trust in the law is starting to fade. How is it that, as the investigation commission continues here, all of a sudden, I've confused the concepts of concrete and abstract, friends and lawyers will help me. What do you mean, solid doubt, reasonable doubt, or how did a law change at the beginning of March? I mean, I'm really hard to understand. You know, there's a CMK 153 in this package that we had canceled upstairs in the bag. Again, one of the things that had been changed about these issues came out again in March. Whatever happens all of a sudden, when it doesn't work out for us, it turns around less than six months later. I mean, I don't understand how in six months, what app happened that we felt the need to make these changes. I mean, the shoe boxes we've seen with our eyes, the money machines, the safes... it's not concrete? You mean we had a dream? Yeah, well, these can be turned off again, but at least let's get the results of this commission right here. Under normal circumstances, whether it's a biased judgment or not, let them have a fair trial, at least let the judge decide. I mean, it really hurts our consciences to have the prosecutor come in here and give it to us like this. Dear friends, what came out in March, was brought back in July... and now he's waiting. They're specifically holding it so they can run it with the other stuff. There was no substance regarding the secrecy of the investigation. I was surprised, too, that they were going to take it off right away. We fought until one night upstairs, and then our friends pulled it out, and one item came in... and then my token fell out. By the way, before the secrecy of the investigation comes, our esteemed commissioner -- we can no longer say the suspects, because, like an eviction order, he no longer gives them to his lawyers. If we'd gotten the law out early, their lawyers would've been able to give it to their lawyers, parallel to the so-called parallel operation, so that they wouldn't be able to give it to their lawyers or to their children's lawyers. And then I realized that they delayed it for him, and now it's going to come with a package. So...
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0170par0053	Your token is rectangled!
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0169par0054	Sure. I mean, really, they were thinking about taking it out that night because we were gonna bring it in right away. I told them to bring it in as a single item. It's not our area of expertise, it's the Plan and Budget Commission. We said: "Get him out of there." I mean, I'm having a hard time understanding it, Mr. Secretary. And you know that the arrangement for a public tender law that we interviewed you on the phone, which we rejected at the commission, is delivered here to the address. How can he trust you now? So, in the wake of a bid, when we make some arrangements later, like in privatisations, if we lose that law thing, how do we get a foreign investor? I mean, if there's no guarantee when he comes in, if there's no different circumstances, then people are afraid. So you remember very well the practice that we've done here, and I don't tell you the details. We talked upstairs, okay, he won't come. We said OK on the subcommittee, it's not on the top commission, it's right in here. I mean, I'm having a hard time understanding how it works. Two, a direct delivery to three firms. Sir, there's been a victimization here. Well, wasn't there one when it was done? That's what we call law. If you change the rules later... if you remember, if I knew it was like this, I would have entered. One of the great bosses said. There was a tender, and then things changed. The citizen has arrived, and the friends have been intercessors in the commission, sir, and we've done so much damage. What can we do, there's profit and harm. If you're not thinking about it at the beginning... could it be something like this? The reason, sir, is that the fuel's increased in an unpredictable way, so let's give it to those who use it too much. What is it? More than 50%. So, what's gonna happen to 49 percent, what's gonna happen to him? Is there anything so specific that goes against the principle of the generality of the law? What happens if we don't edit e-commerce when we do this? Because we need to shift our current transaction deficit to high-tech, high-velocity high-end productions that will cover our foreign trade deficit. To do that, we need to draw foreign capital into physical investments. It doesn't solve what we do when he comes in and out with portfolio investments. So we need to secure the right of property, the right of entry, the right of freedom of law. Otherwise, it won't solve our problems, although it's necessary. Now, let's not put away these concrete doubts when the road is near and put in what you've just brought in and look for reasonable doubt and try to label someone, because the law needs everybody. Tomorrow, these changes you've changed can also shoot you, and otherwise work against you. Let's not break the rule of law. We all agreed on the fundamental economic, social problems of our country here, which we now discussed in the Commission, by agreeing on something else -- not about academics, but we said yes. Let's spend some time with them. With unnecessary legal regulations, he says not to waste the time of the House and of the nation, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0171par0058	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Mehmet Ali Sesam... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0172par0061	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. On the second part of the E-trade Act, I made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. As many of our friends have pointed out, we have reached this point by working unanimously in the commissions. In fact, I'd like to stress that our Commission has a harmonised work on making joint decisions in many laws in the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Resources, Information and Technology Commission, in which the market requires and imposes legal regulations. Our friends from every four party groups are also trying to show a compatible study. This law is one of them. But what does the heart desire? This Parliament needs to create an objective discussion of the country's needs and the country's future, allowing it to make decisions in accordance with its function. I've been in this Parliament for eight years, and unfortunately, I'd like to emphasize the lack of foundation I've seen. If this Parliament's own initiative is given the opportunity to assess the demands of lawmakers, free will, and the needs of the country to make legal arrangements, there may be a great deal of legal provisions in this country's interests. But instead of standing above the will of this Parliament, allowing external debate in Parliament, there are legal regulations that are not really useful in this country, which have been coerced into implementing group decisions. The consequences are that we experience many negatives. Turkey is facing serious problems right now. A hundred percent of the 550 lawmakers there might be uncomfortable with them. So the relations of the country with its neighbours, the turning of our borders, the confusion in the country, the unrest of this turmoil in the country, the unrest that has reached the point of being burned from our flag to the Ataturk statues, are disturbing all of our people, our citizens. It's the first power responsible for reaching these points. While ruling the country, power is primarily passed through the right coordination of what we call "insultory," which is the country's way of ruling, the law, the administration, the forces between the judiciary, and the right way to govern this country. But I'll tell you one thing that I've lived in this Parliament in our country for eight years: power ignores opposition, makes sure that there's no way to give the opposition a say, I've got the people's vote, I've got the majority in Parliament, I'll do what I want. This pluralistic approach is not the right form of governance based on Parliamentary arithmetic. The very serious problems this brings are the ones I've just counted in this country. Therefore, the failure to use the free will of the law, the desire for the administration to take over the law itself, and to dominate the judiciary in recent times, is one of the main riots in this country. Dear friends, justice is the foundation of property. When Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the great leader, he meant property, property, safe, company, and land worshippers, he meant property. The foundation of the state is justice; you will be just, and you will be just. Today in the country -- look, I mean it -- no matter what party there is -- let there be a just power with my life. But it will be just, and the law, and the judgment, and the execution will allow one another to live equally. You manage at a point where justice hurts your feelings. That's what business is all about. People who feel like they're not close to power in trade are afraid. You shouldn't create an environment that lives in that fear, that trades, that productivity, that's not the right trade. If I put a newspaper in their workplaces or something, and you make a sense of me that IRS officers, Social Insurance inspectors, don't control them, it's not right to trade in this country. My dear friends, many of the NGOs we've been to in the past and today, are afraid to bring criticism of their professional group to power rightfully. With this fear, he can't freely say and come to the common platform with the government in creating an environment to solve his own professional problems. All of this does not contribute to this country, making this country a more introverted, more productive, and a closed-down country in competition with the world. Look, Turkey is increasingly caught in the middle of what we call a mid-income trap. Why? Because we're behind in what we call the changing age of knowledge, technology and innovation. The point that we can come up with in our exports and in our exports is that it doesn't exceed the middle income, but Turkey has to be a country that uses knowledge, intelligence, science, and designing the education system accordingly to overcome it. We're talking electronics trade. Creating very important companies in electronics is the work of young minds using information technologies. Can we grow young minds using information technologies? You can't do right in the educational system by bringing religious education to a point where mathematics compares science to science. We all need religion, we all need religious education, we all need to create the time for religion, the ground, education environments, both for our children and for ourselves, but science, science, natural knowledge, medicine, these are things that can be bought and earned in school and in neutral education. If you neglect these issues and turn education into an ideological human growth point, you can't raise young, dynamic generations in Turkey's future. Unfortunately, at this point, we also experience serious shortcomings in this period of power. My advice to you, as a friend, a friend of yours, a friend of yours who's been breathing the same air for eight years, is that a new era begins, a new era. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan became President, Mr. Davutoglu became Prime Minister. Stop these tensions in this country, end this tension. With his opposition to power, tensions, war environments, arguments... the common sense that can eliminate this whole environment is to sit down and talk about it, first through dialogue, before consultation. And to do that, I'm older, and I'm not going to do anything, you have to have an understanding that together, together, we can rule this country better. When you have that understanding, justice works well in this country. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Trade in this country would be good, industry in this country would be more competitive. That's why I wanted to share my feelings with you. I salute you all, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0173par0074	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes the temporary article 1: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion in Article 15 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change the first joke of Article 15 of the Law Bill on Editing Electronic Trade 240 rows that are being discussed in the following way. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu This law is enforced on 1/5/2015. Is the commission in? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMlClClON SANAYl (Gaziantep) - We leave it to appreciation. Government?
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0174par0094	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0173par0095	I'm reading the reason: The implementation clause has been redacted due to the extension of the period between the bill's access to the Parliamentary General Assembly agenda and its meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 16 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. According to the Civil Charter, the bill favours İzmir MP Mehmet Ali Sesam. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0175par0104	I'd like to personally thank all of our friends in the Commission, including the Ministry bureaucrats who worked at this point in the formation of this law. On behalf of myself, I'd like to invite the Ministry on a mission regarding the difficulties of my speech. We gave the Ministry a mandate to prepare for and take steps in the legal arrangements to eliminate unfair competition regarding electronic trade. I expect him to perform this task with regulations and regulations as soon as possible, thanking all who have done it, greeting your peace.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0173par0107	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The bill has been adopted and legalized. Mr. Secretary Canikli will give a thank-you speech, please.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0176par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. And I thank all those who have worked hard to prepare, negotiate, negotiate, and accept this bill, especially our political party groups, all of our MPs. We also did not mention the members of the Justice Department and the Science Commission who served in your kitchen in drafting this bill, and I thank them very much. I wish the bill to be a blessing to our country, to our nation, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-23sit06spe0177par0117	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. We will begin negotiations with the 5th Istanbul Research Centre Charter and the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission and the Justice Commission Reports. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since we understand that no one is going to happen, it is agreed that on Tuesday (November 4th 2014), it is 15 o'clock on Tuesday (November 2014), to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of verbal question motions and billing and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
