tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 60th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. I wish all of us good work, quiet work. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Reşat MP who wants to talk about the problems of prisons. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the problems of the prisons. I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, I salute the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where the great Turkish nation has stood, the heroic man who has been innocent in Sincan Prison, who has been lying in unjust decisions for years. There are serious problems, problems in all prisons in our country. As of today, in Yozgat, a person was killed yesterday in prison by a friend in the same ward. Also in the morning news, thousands of people in Kızılay Square in Ankara have performed protests for sick prisoners, police have sprayed gas into the crowd. There are over 150,000 prisoners and prisoners in prisons in our country. And every day, that number is growing inexplicably. There is not enough room in the prisons for so many prisoners in our country, so inadequacy has reached its limit. People commit crimes, arrests. They cannot be pushed out of the community, of course they will be put into prisons to pay for their punishment, but there the state must provide their lives with dignity. There are people in prisons for terrorism, political and various criminal crimes, but the AKP has increased the number of prisoners in 12 years. The increase is more and more every day. As we examine the causes of increased crime rates, there are significant consequences. In the Justice and Development Party's rule, people can't cope with poverty, their psychology is deteriorating. Young people finish school, they have to become teachers, economists, lawyers, and unfortunately, unemployment is taking over. In these cases, their psychology breaks down, many crimes are faced. After all, the prisons are filling up, and unfortunately, we can't find a place to put the prisoner. Therefore, the need for new prisons is immediate. First, however, work should be done on how people enter prisons and why. The environments that will not go to prison, the lives that must be created by society. Members of parliament, the people who remain in prisons must be treated in a manner that suits the human honor and must be provided for. In the beginning, there must be no such unacceptable situations as isolation, strip search. There must be various studies for children and women. Drug abuse, substance abuse, unfortunately, is growing in our country every day. People who come from these crimes need to do a good rehabilitation study, help them return to normal life after their fines are over. There are also serious problems in some prisons, such as type F. Their demands and demands must be met. Needs such as TV, refrigerator, and washing machines, such as people's basic needs, must be met. Congressmans, there are serious health problems in prisons. Prisoners who are seriously ill must be paroled with new legal regulations. Medical staff staff in prisons are unfortunately available. In prisons, there is a great need for psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers. In addition, prisons must be provided with sufficient number and quality health workers for the use of new technologies and the services of specialized health care units. In addition, while prison health conditions are being improved, public opinion must be given an opportunity to supervise. One thing to remember is improvement of health care with prison physicians and medical staff with good rights. In addition, prisoners in hospitals must be organized in sick wards. Prisoners should be paid more attention and protected. No matter who he is, he must not be denied access to health. Each prisoner must be able to satisfy his need for health, freely. Members of parliament, among other things, the staff who work in prisons have many problems. Prison employees work under stress, it must not be forgotten. The improvements must be reflected in salaries, including the rights to wear down, overtime, special service increases. The voice of the guards of the execution must be heard. The rights given to other professional groups must be given to them as soon as possible and must be provided to those people. After all, humans are ours; it is our duty to embrace all men with his prisoner. The people who are out there today say they may fall there tomorrow, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you. The second statement outside of the agenda belongs to İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal, who wants to talk about the issues of İstanbul's Üsküdar district. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0004par0027	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute all our citizens who are watching us on their television. Dear friends, there are nearly 530,000 voters sitting in Skopjedar. Istanbul has three Istanbuls: Pera İstanbul, Surici İstanbul and Anadolu İstanbul. As soon as it comes to mind, the first thing that comes to mind is Üskudar. Mr. Justice and Development Party Deputy Director Belma, I'm here with my colleague. There are ten neighborhood mayors in Skopjedar who live in Şaşiali neighborhood -- the mayor's office, Ahmadiye neighborhood district district district, Aziziye Mahmud Hüdayi neighborhood, Kuzgunçuk neighbourhood district district district district district district district district of Sultantepe, the Mukhtar district of Zeynep Kamil neighborhood, the muştar of İcadiye neighborhood, Murat Reisk neighborhood district district district district district, the Governor's Atic neighborhood district district district district district of Ahmadiye, our friend's petitions, signing, signing, signing, signing, signing, signing, and request from a member of the ruling and Justice and Development Party's Party's Group, who is also a member of parliament. What do they want? They want a hospital with a population of 530,000 people, such as a mouth, dental centre, hospital. There are clinics here, but since our people don't have a hospital for mouth, dental care, they're either going to the nearest place, or they're going to Süsküdar, or they're going to Şişli.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0005par0029	It's not going to be to Üsküdar. It's going to be somewhere close.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0004par0030	In that sense, our people are victims. And at the same time, our 10 neighborhood chiefs have not been able to travel as far as today, even though they have expressed their demands to both the Prime Minister's office and the Istanbul Governor's office, the Mayor's office, and the Deputy Director of Justice and Development Party Group; this is one. Second: What problems do we have at the same time? There is no high school in Yavuz Selim. Electricity is very limited in Yavuz Selim. Streets and streets are not lit. There is a zoning problem in Yavuzturk neighborhood. There is a property problem in Yavuzturk neighbourhood. ITT buses in Yavuzturk neighborhood -- 2 lines run -- end at 11:00; people end at least 24 where they go as guests. They feel the need to sit up to 100. In that sense, I'm afraid they're having trouble. The Üscudar tradesman says:,Üscudar, whose provisions are narrow., Why does the manager say?....................................................................................... For this reason, the girl has the Tower, and the tourist bus from outside the Tower of Girls enters and returns to the Tower of Girls. So there is no place for outsiders to sit, no tourist destinations in Skopjedar. What's the biggest reason this tourist area doesn't exist? Mayor... there's no area for tourists to spend at least their time in, in this sense, because they're short of licenses to open their businesses. There are 8 universities in Üsküdar, 8 universities with 11 thousand students in total. These students have no hangouts, no spaces, no spaces. Where are these students going? He is either on his way to Beşiktas, or Kadiköy. So in social life, our citizens from Skopjedar, our citizens from Skopjedar, our colleagues from Skopjedar and our students from Skopjedar are having a real problem with this. If there are no graveyards and groves in Skopjedar, there is no green area, it is the graveyards and groves that create the green area in Skopjedar. For him, Skeküdar would have to be a tourist city, but not a tourist city. There are also limited access areas for our disabled brothers and sisters to go to school, to the hospital, and to the street. So, the exponential really... what does that depend on? It's the managers who led the Üskudar from 1994 to today. Does the law allow it to be done? He'll allow it. Well, why isn't it done? Because of their lack of human focus, the people of Skopje have thus far been victimised because their programming does not prioritize human beings. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0006par0039	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Row.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0007par0041	The deputy mentioned me -- speaking of my name -- about Kaskudar, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0006par0042	He didn't say anything to make fun of me. If you're going to make a statement, I can promise you your location.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0007par0043	But he said something about me not being interested in the chiefs, that it was a dead end. If you'll excuse me, I'll answer from there.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0006par0044	Okay, two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0007par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish you a good day at work. First of all, I'd like to thank my dear substitute friend for his sensitivity. I'm also from Skopjedar, and I'm very happy to live in Skopjedar, and to serve the electorate there. First of all, I have to fix this: the deputy doesn't know much about the neighborhoods of Skopjedar. The St. Mahmut Hüdayi neighborhood and the Mukhtar, let's fix this one. Second, we've had a few private meetings with the chiefs you're talking about. They're all the ones we love so much, the ones we count so much, the ones we care about so much. They all gave us their thanks, their appreciation. The oral and dental hospital was first built in Turkey with the resources of the province's private administrations on the European side of Istanbul. Istanbul is asked to build such a hospital in the area of the riot force in Üskudar. It's a law enforcement property. Hopefully, after interagency correspondence, there will be consequences. An oral and dental hospital will be built at this time, as our Ministry of Health has started. I think they're going to do it by organizing the ministry, the county, of course. On this occasion, I would like to remind you again that Skopjedar is a very valuable mayor and executive. In particular, I'd like to remember Mehmet Çakır, the late Mehmet, with mercy and conversation, and ask for God's mercy again. Good work began during Mehmet Çakır, our current mayor Mustafa Kara, and, hopefully, he will be our mayor from now on, as well as during Mr. Hilmi. I don't agree with your claims about the lighting. In Üsküdar, especially in the forest districts, Yavuz Selim. With higher lighting rates in Fethipaşa, and elsewhere, crime rates have declined. This is a area I've been following closely. There really are universities in Skopjedar, there are great opportunities for university youth, there are beaches, there are Fethipaşa Groves. I'll invite you, and we'll have a cup of tea at the Fethipaşa Grove where I'm sitting, and we'll see that college youth relieves stress there, makes nice conversations, studies. It is an honor to serve Baseküdar. Hopefully, we will all continue these services together with our new president. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0008par0058	Thank you, Mr. Row. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0009par0060	My dear President, the speaker said, "The condemned Tanal doesn't know about it." He really made a mockery of it. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0008par0061	Not much of a tease, but he invited you for tea. (CHP rows) If you could talk in there and get it done...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0009par0062	My dear President, I mean, in the interest of not picking on...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0008par0063	Okay, here you go. Please don't cause a new taunt, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0009par0066	Yes, Mr. President. Dear President, dear lawmakers, I didn't use the name of Mr. Deputy Director of the Group in an attempt to pick on you. I have a very comfortable petition from the Health Department of 10 neighborhood chiefs, and I read the petition exactly as I read the petition: our senior friends with signatures below are the chiefs of Üsküdar district of Istanbul, and we need the mouth and dental hospital that our station needs. At the request of the public, Skeküdar Selami Ali neighbourhood belongs to 130 islands, 3,000 square metres of national property, 1,900 square meters of private property, foundation and municipality. With all due respect, I'd like to request that the Üsküdar people's oral and dental hospital be adopted into our district. The letter addressed to the Ministry of Health is a fax sent to Mr. Belma Line Ma'am. They've been talked about all the time, but so far it's been unconcerned, unblemished. The people of Skopje have been constantly saying that they are victims of this. As a matter of fact, I don't want to get into a crowd here, into a competition, but objectively, that's what a citizen expects. So the responsibility for politicians, if there's a problem like this, there's no excuse for this problem, this problem needs to be solved. It's about Üsküdar... if you protect it in Üsküdar... and if there are no graveyards, would you show me a green field for God's sake? I mean, by God, there are these woods and graveyards in Skopüdar. If it doesn't, can you tell me of a city park where people will show it as a green area in Üsküdar? So far, all elected mayors have become rich, the debt of the people of Skopje has increased. I'm saying this out loud. I mean, a mayor, a congressman, a minister shouldn't get rich; it's the people who need to get rich that need to get rich that need to get rich. The opposite happened in Üsküdar. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0010par0074	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Dear Line...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0011par0076	Sir, I need to share information about the green area in Üsküdar, and about corruption from the municipality.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0010par0077	I'll give you your position, please, just a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0011par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I'd like to give you an update on the oral and dental hospital. A new mouth and dental center is opening up in the Chengelville neighborhood. In the next six months, I hope we'll have this opening together, and we'll invite the deputy. They mentioned Yavuzturk neighborhood. In 14 neighborhoods, including Yavuzturk, in 14 neighborhoods of Skopjedar, together with the Urban Transmutation Act, the zoning problem in the region is only on the part of the parcel. The green area of Üsküdar is 10 square feet per person, while in our time it was raised to 20 square feet per person, 80 new parks were made in the new neighborhood. In almost every neighborhood, we have parks where our children will play, where our young will rest, where our elderly will spend time. Baseküdar really is a rising value. I'd like to thank all of our fellow officers here for their precious service. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0012par0085	Thank you, too.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0013par0086	My dear President...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0012par0087	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0013par0088	I'm sorry, I don't want to prolong it. Mr. President, of course it's always a tease, but if you'll excuse me, I'll return the favor. The point is, let me explain...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0012par0089	Mr. Tanal, I don't want to allow it because you're both deputies in the first district.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0013par0090	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0012par0091	Mrs. Belma has also invited you to tea with great kindness. Your district may have problems, but if you solve them together, both the people of Skeküdar and the Istanbul MPs...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0014par0092	You promise Mahmoud Tanal, we'll invite you to dinner, leave the tea.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0012par0093	I'm talking to Mr. Tanal. Mr. Tünce, please. You can work it out together, please.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0014par0094	Be fair, Mr. President, be fair.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0015par0095	Mr. President, look, the basis of equality...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0012par0096	Mr. Ence, I'm not talking to you right now, I'm talking to Mr. Tanal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0015par0098	Our Deputy Director of the Group, I'm sorry, Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0012par0099	Come in, Mr. Tanal, I'm listening.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0015par0100	This is my Group President Deputy.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0016par0101	Mr. President, there's been an injustice in your attitude since yesterday, and you're not being fair. Look, first you told Mr. Group Vice President: Mr. Tanal didn't tease you, so I'll promise you where you're sitting. Then you changed your mind and called him to the stand.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0012par0102	Could be, could be.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0016par0103	Sir, then you must promise Mr. Tanal. You'll be fair, fair.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0012par0104	Mr. Slim, I'm old enough to know where and how to be fair, and I'm mature enough to know.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0016par0105	Well, from time to time...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0012par0106	I'm not having this discussion with you. And if you'll let me tell you who I'm going to give it to, I'll appreciate it.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0016par0107	Of course you'd appreciate it, but you'd appreciate it right.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0012par0108	Please don't guide me into being fair. Maybe, you can show me the way, but don't talk like that, I don't think you do. Mr. Tanal, please. One minute, I promise you where you are.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0017par0111	When you were Deputy Director of the Group, you gave the Deputy Speaker a lot of advice about being fair.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0012par0112	Please, Mr. Tünce, please... I'm showing enough sensitivity to the members of the group, and I'd like you to take care of it.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0017par0113	I'll show you, but as long as you're fair, you'll be fair.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0012par0114	Here you go, Mr. Tanal. Wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0018par0117	Dear President, dear lawmakers, thank you. Now, the clinic is opening in Hookelköy, not a dental hospital, Mr. President. I mean, let's give the public the right information for once. Two: from this 10 square feet to 20 square feet... can you get me out of this perfectly comfortable? Without the graveyards, the woods and the graveyards, they're nowhere to be found, but there's a park open, and I won't deny your rights. Can you tell me who opened that park and what it was for? And I'm telling you the name of the firm: what did you give permission to permit MESA housing in exchange for? Can you explain that to me? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0019par0124	Yes, the third word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Kemalettin Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0020par0127	Mr. President, my dear fellow deputies, all of Turkey knows the struggle our lovely Silverhouse has fought in both the Geography of the Silver House and the Anafartas, in which the Silver House was freed from the invasion of Russian troops ninety-six years ago. All of Turkey knows that in the blood of the Turkish flag, one of the most sacred values in this country, there are Silvershops. Of course, I'd like to share with you what kind of salvation has been experienced in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the last 12 years, in the United States, in the United States, in the United States, in the United States. About eighty-five years after our Silverhouse was saved, in a corner of Anatolia, where the mountains had been palmed, with a description that had been constantly forgotten and neglected by the Turkish Republic's governments, in the last 12 years, about 1.5 quadrillion dollars to transport, about 1.7 quadrillion to State Waters, 100 trillion to health, 150 trillion to education, and of course all Turkey must know how services to its citizens. In the years before this, when our Silverhouse was in the 70s of the university trial, about ten years ago, when our Silverhouse was in the 70s of the year, when Turkey was in its first quarter of the year, with 25 experts in all the Silverhouses in health today, the university of Silverhane had exported $24,000 since the founding of the republic, while one of the university's students, the university where Silverhane, with which it was found, was a major exporter of $5.4m in the last year, was a major one of the cities today, with one of our university of ours in particular, trying to manage one university, and one of the cities. Once again, in the 2000 years of unemployment, we can see that 19 thousand employees, the insurance policy holder, have reached 27,000 people today, especially in a county based in the province of Turkey's Republic, Ankara and Istanbul, all of what is in the province of Turkey, all of which has reached the Silver Hall, all of which is in the districts of the Silverhouse. To illustrate, with high schools, elementary schools, kindergartens, and again, with hospitals and doctors in all the counties; again, with the river reforms of all the counties; again, in any district, the AK PARTI is out of the question, while the gym is out of the question, it is now in all its districts, even in the cities and villages, it has taken a lot of investments to artificial grass fields. In particular, a province that has been able to benefit from regional development in recent years, a province that can also benefit from the East Black Sea projects, a province that can also benefit from DOKAP, investments and cultural development with SODES, the development of children's parks, the development of individual skills, cinema and theatre, are all appreciated by the Silver Houses. Again, our government, which has been with the orphan, the poor, the disabled, the poor, everyone who can't pay the general health insurance, has been with everyone within 11 years -- $134 million -- from the disabled in the Silver House to the dialysis patient who needs to be taken from his home. Throughout the history of the Republic, maybe 10 million, 100 million have come in a year, and in 12 years, the Silver House has invested $4.5 billion in it, reaching 4.5 quadrillion in the old number. So, basically, in the debates before me, in many provinces of Anatolia, where investments have been in a series, our Silverhouse has received the rights of these investments in the last 12 years, and the nation has given its proper support in all elections and referendums. On March 30th, I salute you all with respect and respect, believing that there will be white authorities and white municipalities in the municipalities, giving similar support. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0021par0136	Thank you. Congressmans, the off-the-top talk is over. In this chapter, I would like to reiterate that I have not made a commitment to the MPs according to the 60th Amendment. There's a congressman in the system, so let's refresh that information. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are around 300,000 unassigned teachers in our country. The non-assigned teacher issue has become an increasingly deepening problem, bringing with it a more serious issue, a matter of teachers who committed suicide because they were not appointed. Ending people's lives in the prime of their lives can't be ignored by the political institution that needs to address problems. Our young teachers, who have the right to have a job in the field of their graduates, work as teachers, porters, cleaners, construction workers, means major losses in our country's economy, development and educational quality. The number of teachers who have not been assigned to them day after day brings with them serious social problems. Many unemployed teachers delay their plans for their lives. Our young people, who have left their ideas of getting married, starting a family, even at an unknown time, are now on the agenda of suicide. The suicide chain, which began on 5 June 2007 when Nurcan Uca's business teacher took his life, continued on 5 April 2012 with the suicides of a teacher who had not been appointed, including one in Tripoli, the other in Diyarbakir. Biology teacher Hilal Longkaya jumped from the 8th floor of his apartment in Tripoli and died at the scene. Mustafa Kaya committed suicide by hanging himself on the ceiling with his tie in a central village in Diyarbakir. From June 5, 2007 to today, the number of teachers who ended their lives has drawn closer to 30. On 17/7/2010, a teacher named Fikret Ercan, who committed suicide in Bursa, left a note that could give us a clear idea of suicides. His brief note to his family is: "I am tired. I'm working, but I can't. I've done nothing to trouble you, to dishonor you. Even if I had, I would not have succeeded at KPSS again. • The outstanding despair and desperation of the tens of thousands of young teachers today reflect the spirit of the teacher. The lack of tens of thousands of teachers is also a sign of a problem in social context when our teachers are unemployed and therefore end their lives. Teachers have limited employment opportunities, and even the exploitation of labor, such as paying teachers, is a dream for some teachers. For example, on 14/10/2009, the teacher who committed suicide in Istanbul, İsmail Kızilok, was a victim of this situation. Ismail Kızılok has long sought work and has finally applied for a paid teacher. After receiving a negative response to the application for paid teaching, Redok ended his life leaving a note. In order to investigate the social and economic dimension of the reasons for the suicides of non-assigned teachers, we propose and propose the opening of parliamentary research in accordance with Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, to determine the necessary measures for the removal of this painful problem. [[Malatya]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Gaziantep]] 6) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 7) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Hatay]] [[Erzincan]] 15) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] 20) Mustafa Ali Balbay [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] 22) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to identify different cultures, languages, identities, and religions living in Turkey, and to establish the population structure, to preserve multicultural and richness, the scientific structure of society is required for the opening of Parliamental research at the request of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to create detailed and continuous reports on this subject, and to investigate the causes of the destroyed cultures and languages. [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] Although Turkey is a multicultural and IDated country, there is no research on this rich majority and no national information bank. The first comprehensive census in Turkey was held in 1927, with citizens being asked their native language. The main language question was taken and recorded, such as Turkish, Kurdish, Armenian, German, Greek, Arabic, Jewish. However, there is no study done after this date, but there is no current and scientific knowledge of how many different languages, identity, religion, cultural properties exist in Turkey today. When different cultures are considered wealth, the discovery of the structure of the population according to different religions, language, identity, and cultural features will provide information on the continuation of multiculturalism and the taking of protective measures for some special groups. The scientific revelation of Turkey's multilingual, multicultural structure by the state will also show that it is not possible or that such a monotheism approach can only be done by destroying these differences. Ethnologue, which includes extensive studies of languages and world languages spoken in Turkey. According to the report in Turkey, 34 languages are spoken in Turkey along with Turkish. According to the same report, Turkey is ranked 139 · Global Voices among 224 countries in terms of language diversity. In Turkey, however, it appears that over time two languages have disappeared, falling from 36 languages to 34 languages. This shows that the state has no policy on maintaining multiculturalism and that an approach to monotheism will lead to the extinction of different languages, cultures. Thus, a detailed, continuous, comprehensive study of Turkey's multicultural structure and lack of a policy result in lack of precise figures. In Turkey, where 34 different languages are spoken, 12 different religious beliefs, 25 different ethnic identities are said to be living, there are no scientific methods to describe how many of these different identities, beliefs, and cultures have been assimilated, how many of them have had to migrate, or how much of them have to migrate from their own culture and language. In this context, we recommend that a parliamentary research commission be established in order to identify different cultures, languages, identities, and religions living in Turkey, to collect scientific data on the multicultural structure of society, to preserve multicultural and richness, to create detailed and continuous reports on this subject, and to investigate the causes of the dying cultures and languages. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The amendments to the Istanbul Metropolitan City Theatre's Regulations and the rhetoric of political power for artists in particular for theatre artists, the statements that state theatres will be privatised, the problems that theatre artists have experienced. In order to investigate the problems of artists working in theatres, I respectfully submit that the Constitution's 98th and Internal Law shall be opened under Articles 104 and 105. 1) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Pain]] 6) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Adana]] The Istanbul Metropolitan City Council's Parliamentary Commission has decided that in April the City Theatre Charter will be changed and the Istanbul City Theatre administration will be taken from the artists and transferred to the city's bureaucrats. This decision has raised concerns about state intervention in art that has been debated in our country for years. This decision is spoken by theatre artists whose art is meant to limit the freedom of art and leave it to the custody of bureaucrats. While theatres were provided in developed countries with autonomous structures and state support, the arrangement that would bring our country back was criticised by artists and art lovers. With these developments, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said, "He sees how the despot intellectuals are trying to reason with us, and forgive me, perhaps it's a little harsh, but we feel sorry for those poor people. On the matter of city theatres in Istanbul, that despot understanding, that arrogant attitude has once again shown itself. Because of a change of regulations in the city theaters, they began to insult and despise us and all the conservatives. I'm asking, who the hell are you? Do you have a monopoly on theater in this country? Do you have a monopoly on art in this country? Are you the only ones who have a license to say things about art? Those days are over. Now the age of reproaching this nation is over. A bright generation grew up in this country. There is a generation in this country that knows its history, who knows its history, who knows the savings of this land, who knows the West, who knows other civilizations." His comments have raised concerns that these concerns are being carried out by political power. Because when the argument about the statue in Kars is remembered, the dominant approach of power on art is evident. Today's entry into the European Union is not appropriate for modern Turkey to be underestimated and humiliated by the work of an artist in our country. The theatre is a public service, and Turkey, a social state, needs autonomy instead of privatisation of theatres. At the same time, art is the mirror of society, expressing the voice of society, its problems, its demands. For these reasons, it is necessary to address the problems of our artists, to make art effective, to encourage them. In our country, theatre artists perform their professions with low wages, difficult physical conditions, long hours. Problems such as the regulation of labour legislation and other legal legislation on solving these problems, fixing physical conditions, all players being committed employees and providing social security, setting base fees in all areas, setting royal rights arrangements, arranging unemployment insurance according to the players' working conditions, setting up pension premiums based on the profession, and the absence of pension problems for any player. Therefore, in regard to the privatisation of theatres and theatres, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution in order to investigate and address the problems of art and artist in our country. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. In recent years, there has been a review of the extension of the Commission's mandate of the Council of Parliamental Research Commission for the purpose of investigating the Doping Problem in Turkish Sports, which needs to be taken into account: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the decision of our Commission, which began its work on 28/11/2013 at its 16/1/2014 meeting, I respectfully submit its mandate to the extension of a month from 28/2/2014, under the second joke of Article 105 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The commission, which failed to complete its investigation within three months, is given a month's notice. The Commission has been given an additional month according to the decree. Congressmans, the Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 12/2/2014 meeting Wednesday (now), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 6 February 2014, it was given by the Vice President of the group, İdris Baluken (4972 rows no. lu) has been suggested that the parliamentary inquiry motion given to Turkey's Grand National Assembly to investigate "the establishment of provocations and attacks on leftist and Kurdish students in the universities" be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, being read in the presentations on Wednesday 12/2/2014, and that talks be held in the same date. The first speaker, Mr. Aykan Erdemir, in favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0022par0327	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, violence is a wound that really bleeds in our country, but violence isn't just on university campuses, it's not at university campuses, it's an epidemic that has covered every aspect of our society. If authoritarian politics rises in a country, if patriarchal politics rises, violence inevitably rises with it. In Turkey, there is not only violence against citizens, there is violence against women, there is violence against children, as we have seen recently, there is violence against animals. Sadly, violence dominates all societies where democratic channels are blocked, and violence strengthens its presence in that society. Here are our universities, our university settlements, where today, unfortunately, violence dominates, the brute force dominates, and democratic negotiating culture loses ground as a day goes by. It's not every day that there's gonna be an unpleasant incident between students or law enforcement and students at a university compound. Here, in the city of Bursa, where I am proud to represent, we often see fights at Uludağ University that have serious consequences among opposition students in the headlines. At this point, we need to look at what kind of education, teaching life the government envisions for our universities, for our students, for our faculty. Look, we always identify with September 12th, we identify with the 1980 coup, we identify with the SEC. One of the greatest examples of the steel discipline, antidemocratic pressures of the YOC (CEK) on universities, professors and students is the Disciplinary Rule of Higher Education Institutions of August 21, 1982. So, if this disciplinary code is a reflection of a guardianship on national sovereignty, a reflection of the boundaries on fundamental rights and freedoms, if it is the shadow of a disgrace over democracy in Turkey, how do we approach this discipline regulations today? Unfortunately, some changes have been made in this disciplinary code recently. The heart would wish that there would be no bans on disciplinary regulations, a new barrier to university compounds, a culture of democracy, negotiation, reconciliation, and violence. But unfortunately, we've seen this: a joke has been added to the section of the disciplinary code of conduct (e) which requires punishment (e.g.), and look, I'm telling you -- it's a verb and a state of mind that requires criminal condemnation: to inform or address media, news agencies, radio and television institutions, even though they are not in charge of scientific debates and statements. Yes, in all the universities of the world, in all the free universities, in all the free universities, there are three foundations: education, research, one service to society, one to society, one to society. Here, the professors refer to the foot of service to the community as sharing their own free, independent opinions with the community on matters that concern the community, but unfortunately today the power in Turkey's 12 September regime has added to the expression of the freedom and independence of the professors, which requires a continuation of the verb and conditions that require condemnation. Now, if that's the attitude of power to college, if that's a oppressive, prohibitive understanding, well, in that university, in that compound, democracy culture, culture of debate, culture of negotiation, freedom of thought, freedom of opinion, freedom of speech, freedom of speech. Unfortunately, violence, brute force, insult dominates the settlement culture, non-disputing culture, non-controversial culture. Here we hope, from September 12th to the Republic of Turkey, in this disciplinary regulations, steps that will immediately pave the way for democracy, to pave the way for freedom of thought, freedom of expression, to strengthen the culture of negotiation. Again, our students, of course, are looking at the government, and they want to see what kind of high education vision the government is drawing for them, what kind of college vision it's drawing for them. And in the last few months, you might remember, our government had signaled, and it didn't stop, and they said, "It's good news to all those college students who got married that their loans should be wiped out." So our government didn't give college students the initiative to read, study, argue, talk, talk, on the contrary, he said, "Get married quickly, have children, have children, it's more important than education, and if you do that, we'll erase your loans, your debt. Of course, we advocate free education, without a doubt, we defend the best financial conditions for our college students, but student loans or student loans are a political area to be conducted regardless of whether a student is married or not. Another area of our government is revealed by its reaction to peaceful demonstrations at universities. Recently -- all our viewers and all our nations and MPs are witnesses, witnesses -- students who plant plants in ODTÜ are being tried for obstructing illegal construction there, their names are mentioned in the indictment. So even planting a plant can be perceived as a threat by the government in Turkey today. In short, democracy culture, culture of negotiation, culture of reconciliation in our universities is not developing, violence is taking over because Turkey is approaching a very wrong framework for ruling, university-related, university housing, professors and students. Look, recently, regarding the events at Middle East Technical University, our president, Mr. Ahmet Acar, has made an important statement and presented a whole set of rules that could be an example for all university settlements. He said that unless four red lines are crossed, all kinds of actions, all kinds of talk, all kinds of self-expression should be allowed in universities. First of all, no violence. Second, don't let the university's research, educational activities get in the way. Third, let him not harm the environment, and fourth, let all this be expressed in a democratic culture. So, what we're saying today is that what the government should do today is express its vision of the most fundamental rights and freedoms of universities to all the settlements in Turkey. You can't get in the way of violence just by law enforcement, by law enforcement, by police measures. If you don't institutionalize democracy culture in a country, if you don't establish freedom of the press in a country, freedom of the Internet, if you don't recognize the ability of our young, our women, our workers, our workers to express themselves in a country, of course, the legitimate ground disappears over time and violence dominates. Finally, I'd like to talk about a study by the Society Volunteers Foundation. In the study of University Students' Freedom of State and Organization, we find a sad picture: According to this study across Turkey, there are many disadvantaged university students -- including women in Turkey, Kurdish students, LGBT students, poor students, and left-wing students -- says: "We feel oppressed. We are victims of violence. Here, if we want to overcome this negative picture, what Turkey needs -- we say it again -- is not advanced democracy, but real democracy. Thank you, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0023par0342	Thank you. Mr. Yunus Kılıç is the first speaker of the Peace and Democracy Party against the group's proposal. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0024par0346	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge against the Council's motion to investigate the student affairs of the BDP Group at the universities. I salute you all. Of course, on the one hand, there's a request for a research motion for concern about the events at the university. What's the harm here? Of course, it may seem like a very legitimate request, but the honorable lawmakers, in fact, are looking at a point where they can increase these concerns when they're being written as the basis for the research proposal; in fact, we've seen that it's been written by a statement that tries to simplify, simplify, simplify, simplify the situation in private with leftist and Kurdish students, ignores the difficulties among other students at the university and has been responsible for the process since 1960s. Of course, when you look at it, it's in the events at the university -- yes, at times in universities, where there's youth, there's energy, there's excitement, there's all of a sudden different cultures get together, they start to get to know each other, and sometimes there's a time when they judge differences. It happens sometimes in universities, but especially in this period of time, the fact that these events jump to universities in different cities, and are organized in the form of actions that almost support each other, shows us that we need to look at it from a different point of view. Moreover, when you look at these events, it's not just between left-wing students and left-wing students with Islamic sensitivity, sir, between pro-BDP students and left-wing students, between nationalist students, at various universities, their names and their belonging are different, but we actually see student events happening. Now, members of lawmakers, of course, these events are not new at universities. In fact, in universities, you know, the beginning of the democratization environment, the way people can live their freedoms, the way students can be accepted by their beliefs in colleges, began to open with our government. I'm speaking as a living, seeing, knowing person because I'm a professor of what used to happen in colleges. In colleges, it's actually not that hard for you to remember the democratic environment that we wanted, human rights, student rights, social life, and a universal university education, from their college ranks, from their years. We think that these events at our universities, in fact, have come out of concern and anxiety lately when you look back on them. Honourable lawmakers, in fact, the reason for the BDP Parliament's motion to investigate, is that there is something in the statement of friends that says: the democraticisation of Turkey, the expansion of freedoms and the systematic attack against those students who set up life with the ideals of equality. So it's not really what you wrote about the AK PARTY. WHEN you look at the recent problems of the EC PARTI, especially February 7th, February 25th, travel actions and so on, their names are different, their construction points are different, their motives are different, but ultimately Turkey is the target, Turkey is the beginning of a process where the government is the government. Now, the next thing you know, these people have done various operations, operations, actions, surgeries under different identities, under various internal and external forces in this country. Sometimes he hid himself in universities, sometimes in the judiciary, sometimes in the military, sometimes in politics, but the Turkish nation is so used to it now that it's always the Turkish nation on the operating table, the goals, the purposes, the people, these, even though they're different, we know them now on the operating table. Even though these faces have changed, we know that your intentions are the same, your origins are the same. When you look at BDP's group proposal, yes, difficulties... but friends, especially after the protests that started in Diyarbakır, there are 49 NGOs united and declared. In particular, it points out: Politicians in the BDP and HEDAPAR are warned that they should use a very careful language in politics and that they can only be prevented by a good language, by an approach. It's actually a very positive warning. So we're going through a process of political parties, especially when politics is starting to escalate, tighten, get excited; AK PARTI, BDP, CHP or MHP, whoever it is, that everyone should look for all solutions in this period, especially in this period of peace and brotherhood that has begun in our country, and they should be strongly sensitive to it. Yeah, can colleges have biased approaches to student events? It shouldn't be. Could it be? It could be someone who's been misbehaviored. It is our duty to show them sensitivity; it is the duty of the law enforcement, the government, justice, of course. Look, when we were in college, friends -- I'm a professor at the University of Kafkas -- there were minor incidents. When you went to the students, there would be events that would have arisen from your own small, different agreements -- with your compassionate, sincere approaches, they would soon become calm, reconciled, compromised, separated. However, these events are trying to increase and continue at universities. So it's not because of the problems of students, it's not so innocent; no one should forget that under them, large provocations are involved in the preparation for major action, and that they are trying to play various games on Turkey, and that they can't be comfortable with the conclusion of the peace and brotherhood process in this country and that they can't be able to perform the operations they want, that they can't be able to ride in this area, that people's initiatives are also involved. So this seems to be a process that is very different from the innocent student movement that we know of. It starts at the University of Dicle, the events that support it are formed in other universities, and the whole country, friends, is being tried to spread. So what's the point? Those who can't do what they want to do on February 7, those who can't do what they want to do in the travel events, those who can't do what they want to do on December 17th, on December 25th, are trying to create another area of distress related to the future of the country. Friends, youth is a place where there's excitement, blood is boiling, it's a place where it's thought to be easy to provoke, but I would like to address my fellow students at these universities: friends, there may be those who want to use you, there may of course be those who want to take advantage of your energy, your excitement, but believe me, if you can't accomplish your student life the way you want to do it, then those who want to use you today, they want to do it more recklessly, to use you in order to use you. So, please, from the great efforts and contributions your families have given you, I think it's the most important thing for you to do right now to take advantage of the great resources that our government, our government, has given you at this time and use it as a contribution to the future of the country, to the future of the region, to your family, and to your future. Yes, in this country there may always be a right-wing-left debate, a Kurdish-Turkish conflict, but you should know that the people of this country are now eager for peace, brotherhood, and peace, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0025par0357	Thank you. Second speaker in favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, Kars MP Mr. Property Onetane. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0026par0361	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, Mr. Yunus Kılıç, who came from Kafkas University's faculty, if only he had referred more objectively to the problems that happened there, he had a speech that terrorized the students. Again, a incriminating and AKP advocated speech fell to the Kars MP because it is not proper for our fellow members of the Kars to come forward and defend when we speak about the problems in Kars, because they know that I will make the speech today. I made a commitment to the motion that we made about pressure and intimidation policies on college students. On this occasion, I salute you all. Before Turkey's politics was rocked by bribery, corruption and parallel state claims, there was a debate on the government's men's home with girls on the agenda. The AKP, which has been speeding up pressure policies since it sat down in power, is busy trying to implement the most typical feature of pressure regimes -- the policies of digesting university students -- with special methods that have never been seen in Turkey's history. Projects have been implemented with AKP-Camaat cooperation, especially at Middle East Technical University, to form student groups that first pledge themselves to universities, and then to adopt their own ideology through pressure from these groups through students. The government has sought to turn its ministers into lawyers, prosecutors, bureaucrats-growing schools to the AKP, by going to universities with its bureaucrats, and in every protest they have faced, it has resorted to more anger towards students, and this time it has resorted to unlawful acts, such as expelling students from universities, removing their records. Students protesting state officials were given high penalties, school lives blackened, records erased, suspended from school. As a result of political pressures, hundreds of students were cut off from school, thousands arrested and put in prison. In May 2013, it was reported by the Justice Department that they had no immediate data on arrested students, but that they had 2,776 prisoners and convicted students as of January 4, 2013. In October 2011, there were 503 students in prison and 6 times higher in two years. In the past few months, students in Erzurum, Kars, Diyarbakır, Kütahya, Afyonkarahisar, Bolu, Bursa, İstanbul, Sivas and many other universities have been subjected to the pressures of police and university administration. These pressures, which have previously been carried out in public with no evidence against medical students, have been continued on students since recently without losing speed. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, students in Turkey are tried as members of a terrorist organization for seeking free education in their press statements, for opening these contented banners, and for various penalties. Not only in this context, but in the democratic and revolutionary organisation, showing sensitivity to social problems, expressing opinion about a problem, or participating in meetings and demonstration walks is considered to be a cause for the students to be tried for terrorism. While the state is pressuring students on the one hand, students are under attack by racist groups in schools for Kurdish Democrats, revolutionary, left-wing students. For this reason, students whose college life is ending are also excluded from the student amnesty laws. This is a violation of many laws, especially of international contracts and the principle of equality of the Constitution. Obstruction of a person's basic and constitutional right to education is also a conflict with the general rules of law. While I've had the opportunity, I'd like to point out that it is imperative that a new amnesty law be passed by the establishment of a binding and equitable legal arrangement. The pressures of government towards university youth, the most dynamic power of society, are not just to end school life, to create a student type that doesn't investigate, doesn't study, doesn't question. The AKP also uses serious intimidation methods to carry out its goals. They were the most targeted students during the travel resistance because the resistance to travel was also a student movement. A 19-year-old Ali İsmail Korkmaz, a student of Eskişehir Anadolu University, died of brain bleeding after police hit him for minutes during demonstrations where hundreds of students were targeted. On April 4, 2009, 21-year-old Kurdish student Mahsum Karaogullan, who was murdered by police on the Amara march, was shot by police at a demonstration in Diyarbakır on December 6, 2009, by police, by Aydın Erdem, who was shot by police on May 12, 2010, was the result of the government's intimidation policies. These students were publicly slaughtered by the state's official law enforcement forces. Surveillance footage is clear, police names are clear, images and voices are clear, but there's no word from the government. Thousands of police involved in corruption and bribery operations have not acted in the face of those massacres and lynching attempts at the university, which have changed the position of judges, prosecutors, and prosecutors. Those who can't even stand the trial of their children, who make new laws for it, who reward the police who slaughtered young people and students in the street, who don't even allow them to appear in court. The government celebrated the security, the judgment that it claimed to be parallel construction, when it was about the children of the people yesterday, by writing the myth, by doing what it needed to be done; today it turns, it turns, and the account returns. For example, when its own children are involved, it becomes an institution of gangbangers, lawless structures. From here we call to the government: Did your police kill Aydın Erdem, Sherzan Kurt, Mahsum Karaoglan, Ali Ismail Korkmez, and many others of his disciples, or the congregation? Is it your judgment or parallel judgment that's laundering law enforcement that kills students? Mr. President, we have requested several parliamentary investigations into university pressures, lynching campaigns, but the AKP has rejected this request based on its majority in parliament. All these problems that we're describing are the scientific, democratic, free research that the government wants to shape according to its own understanding, a uniform, self-promising youth and clear indicators that it wants the future. When we all talk about youth, we say youth is the future of the country. We have shared our future with you on this occasion how we blacken it with power and what we have done. He wishes to have our research proposal brought up, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0027par0375	Thank you, Mr. Birtane.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0028par0376	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0027par0377	Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0028par0378	As the speaker began his remarks, they said I had a speech to provoke the students. I'd like to say that in return.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0029par0379	He put the facts out there.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0027par0380	He said... heard it, heard it, yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0030par0381	For God's sake, we heard it!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0031par0382	We all heard it.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0027par0383	I heard it, I listened to it, to the end. Here you go. Two minutes...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0032par0388	Mr. President, honorable MPs, Mrs. Landlord, of course, our Kars MP, I have great respect for them, especially on behalf of the people of Kars.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0033par0389	Thank you. The people of Kars are watching us.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0032par0390	Now, sir, it's like this: when the universities became known that I was going to talk, they also promised Master Yunus. Whereas I'm supposed to be the head of people who have to talk to in college, and I'm a college teacher, so who's going to talk when I'm not going to talk at college? This place, for one thing, isn't consistent. And you said I gave a provocative and provocative speech to the students. Never think of MPs like you here. I specifically explained to college students that they should act in my calming, mental state, that they shouldn't resort to such provocations. How did you know? You're a professor too, is that how you understand what I'm saying? Honourable MPs, I am a teacher at the University of Kafkas, a university where Kurdish students in particular study heavily. In our university, these sensibilities are very important. During the time that we were teachers in college -- if you pay attention, I told you -- there wasn't a single incident and action at that university when we were living, when we were in college, because I came in, and I came in, and I personally did compassion, and love, and hugging those students.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0034par0393	It was after you arrived, Hajji!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0032par0394	Look, there was a similar incident when we were lawmakers at the University of Kars, and when I spoke to our police commissioner, our university president, and the people there in person, that this area was particularly sensitive, that one should be treated very carefully, that one should never be seen in front of another, and that one should be good for the country and the nation, and that one of them said, "Is he from PKK, is he from BDP?" and so on. It's a shame to accuse us of provocation while we're being so sensitive. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0035par0396	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0036par0397	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0035par0398	Here you go, Mr. Onete.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0036par0399	I'd like a two-minute statement from the speaker who actually misunderstood me.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0035par0400	Now, he didn't tease you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0036par0401	No, in teasing... in his speech just now... in fact, what I wanted to emphasize was that BDP...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0035par0402	I'll give you my word on your position for a minute, if you're going to make a statement.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0037par0403	Mr. President, give him two minutes to speak at his place.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0035par0404	No teasing, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0037par0405	There's, there's... there's president, there's teasing.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0038par0406	And in the previous talk, there were also parts of the speaker who provoked the university base and pointed out that the PRAR and BDP were supposed to use a more specific, moderate language... which is why I, therefore, have terrorized both the shoe and the nail, and they have both had positive and negative rhetoric. Since it's misunderstood, I'd like to explain.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0035par0407	But, Mr. One, you've already explained enough. There's no teasing.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0037par0408	President, I need two minutes to...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0038par0409	Two minutes...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0039par0410	Mrs. Property, we get it, all right.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0040par0411	We get it...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0041par0412	Now, look, members of lawmakers...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0042par0413	Let's make it a day for the Kars people.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0043par0414	It's all right, let's leave today to the variants, Mr. President, it'll be fine. He's already had a stroke, and the government hasn't done anything to him!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0041par0415	I wish I could leave it to all of them... there are other MPs, there are a bunch of county deputies, what can we do? Now...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0044par0416	We'll be bringing Kars to the table on this occasion, Mr. President. Wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0041par0417	Okay, but now, I have a responsibility to do the procedure. Of course I want to promise you. Come on, it's Kars people's day today, and I'm not saying anything to him, but there's nothing in the Civil Code for bullying right now. I'll give it to you from your position, accept it, or Mrs. Pervin will ask you, and this time she'll give it to you, and I don't want to choose this way. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Onete.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0045par0422	Thank you. Of course, in my earlier speech, in my previous talks, when we voice our views on the Kars, or on the region, unfortunately, our Kars MP friends wake up and respond immediately. From here, the people of Kars are watching us all. He says the people of Kars will decide who is right and who is wrong, and I thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0046par0425	Watching, watching...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0047par0426	Bravo, that's the way to be polite, that's the answer.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0048par0427	And I thank you for your understanding. The second speaker against the Peace and Democracy Party's group proposal is Bolu MP Ali Ercoshkun. Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0049par0434	Mr. President, I respectfully salute the General Assembly, and I have taken a pledge against the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party. Dear friends, as you know, when you say college, in fact, the number of universities from the 1980s, which was only around 70 after September 12th, has risen above 170. So we aim to increase the level of education of our students, our young ones, with at least one university in the 81 provinces of Turkey. Of course, it doesn't really reflect the fact that there are no problems, no problems, and we've solved all the issues, when we're in such a large community, which is around 4.5 million. Yeah, we've all been through a lot of trouble together in colleges. There was a shortage of coefficients, for example, when students couldn't choose the part they wanted freely, or even though they got high scores, they couldn't choose these parts. There was a persecution called a headscarf, where students could not study in schools only because they had won the university, and only because they wore headscarves, and these students were trying to be persuaded. There was a great deal of fire in the hearts. We've seen what's going on, what these students actually say over and over again. Of course, in these processes, as BDP has indicated in the group's proposal, some events have been involved among opposition students, and they are still going on. We can also say that students who have suffered from these incidents, who have been victimized, are certainly disturbed. So it's up to us to prevent this kind of event from happening, but on the other hand, to open and conclude the investigations by being handled correctly, but on the other hand, it doesn't really reflect the facts, just for one group, for another, because in the 81 provinces of Turkey, it's one with the east and the north, and it's one with the north. We don't think the truth is reflected in this whole group, just by expressing one part as a victim. So, here, perhaps all parties are complaining about the process after the 80 revolution, but what should be done is that the issues and institutions that have been filed with a new civil constitution should be eliminated and then designed in a more democratic, more civil way. With the support for constitutional studies in this process, it can be achieved, but it certainly won't be a move to resolve the whole issue now, just to ask for a specific event to be investigated. Our agenda is clear, dear friends. In this agenda, it states that we are against the motion of the Peace and Democracy Party, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0050par0438	Thank you. I submit to your votes the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0051par0441	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0050par0442	Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0051par0443	Mr. President, I had a request for a statement.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0050par0444	Come in, Mr. Vural, I didn't see it.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0051par0447	Mr. President, there's a really dirty and dirty game going on in colleges. In particular, the construction of universities in many universities, illegal construction, unfortunately has caused unrest at the university. From here, especially in this organization and in this regard, we warn both security guards and, frankly, university administrations about the attacks against patriots, nationalists, people who want to go to their class. Let universities be a place of education, and let the future of Turkey be a place of education. I have made it my duty to convey my warning to both the university administration and the government at the same time, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0050par0449	Thank you, too. I'm reading the nationalist movement group proposal: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting on Wednesday (February 12th 2014), I would like to ask that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On February 11, 2014, TBM President and Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and his friends were proposed to conduct their parliamentary research motion Wednesday (February 12th 2014) at the General Assembly on Wednesday (now) to investigate the reasons for censorship and self-restraint in Turkish media and to ensure freedom of the press, including legal regulations. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay will speak in favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0052par0466	Mr. President, I have taken our pledge to open a parliamentary inquiry to determine the measures, including legal regulations to ensure freedom of the press by investigating the reasons for censorship and auto-sensorship in the Turkish press. I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, the media is a very important instrument of democracy in modern democratic countries, which performs its functions to raise the voice of public opinion and oversee political power. The monopoly and commercialisation of the bossing structure, media-political-dealing relationship, and the distortions of the journalist's identity have severely degenerated media functions. The media is far from true, real and objective news principles. In the journalism profession, it shows itself as censorship, interference in publication content, manipulation or halting broadcast. In another dimension, there is dismissal, liquidation, channel closure, legal pressure, even arrest. Auto-accession is an internalized form of censorship. The auto-supply of anxiety and fear has become more dangerous and severe for journalists than censorship. Because of AKP's pressures, the media today directs the agenda in accordance with the government's rhetoric, determines what sources to use, the selection of news headlines, and how to say them. The fact that millions of news channels have gone out on the streets and Prime Minister Erdogan has turned a blind eye to these events shows the situation of the media in our country when his words appear in seven newspapers on the same day. As a result of an increase in censorship during the AKP period, Turkey has moved back every day in the press freedom ranking. Turkey is ranked in the press freedom ranking of Journalists Without Borders in 2002, while it is ranked in the 154th place among 179 countries today. The Anadolu Agency and the TRT have become the government's trumpet and have censored opposition parties. The distribution of opposition newspapers is prohibited on Turkish Airlines aircraft. Parliamentary TV's broadcast time has been restricted and news freedom has been blocked, and Parliamentary TV has censored opposition parties' group meetings. Following the travel events and the December 17th corruption and bribery operation, a commission is alleged to have been established in the AKP Vice President's presidency to control television and newspaper broadcasts. Journalists are prohibited from entering the police force. In Article 28 of the Constitution, the press is free; it cannot be censored. The state takes measures to ensure freedom of press and information. Although it is said, the Prime Minister himself censors the owners of newspapers and television, acting as if he were a censor by his own hand. As of today, the media is subject to the Prime Minister himself. According to the Prime Minister's instructions, former Minister of Transport Bali Yıldırım... was released to businessmen and pools with the transfer of ATV TV and the new owner of Sabah daily. The owners of opposing newspapers and televisions have been constantly audited, charged sentences have been written. In order to cover up corruption, corruption and antidemocratic practices, the AKP government provides a ban on broadcasting to television and newspapers and censors social media via the Internet. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to share with you now... the speech of censorship... which has been a black mark on Turkish press history. These talks are the talks heard by Telecommunications Communication President, all with dates and letters. Now you all know the heroes of this censorship thing. The stage newspaper Haberturk and its radio, the prime minister, the co-stars...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0053par0475	You can't hear, you can't hear.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0054par0476	Zoom in on the microphone...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0052par0477	Well, now you're gonna have to...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0055par0478	Come closer to the microphone...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0052par0479	It's usually heard, it's the citizens who don't hear.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0056par0480	Turn it up a little bit, you can't hear it.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0052par0481	That's it, I'll play it later.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0057par0482	Mr. Akçay, will you continue your conversation, please?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0052par0483	Mr. President, this is part of our conversation.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0058par0484	It's a little high. Get a tape recorder!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0057par0485	There's no such app, you know.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0059par0486	Sir, technology...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0057par0487	Technology, but you can't hear anything.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0059par0488	Sir, you can hear it. Don't worry.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0060par0489	Now here's...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0057par0490	Mr. Akçay, continue your conversation, please. You can refer to it. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0061par0492	What bastard listened to that?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0062par0493	...Mr. Prime Minister instructs the general co-ordinator to remove the live broadcast of the President of the National Movement Party's press conference. Second speech...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0063par0495	It's getting old! Say something else.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0064par0496	Say something else.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0062par0497	I mean, you get something every day.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0063par0498	Tell them to listen to the lawless.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0062par0499	Now, dear friends, there's supposed to be an election poll, and for the manipulation of this survey...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0065par0500	They're stale.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0063par0501	Say something new.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0062par0502	...interviews are being held. The Prime Minister, Bilal Erdogan, Haberturk, and the two conquerors are speaking.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0066par0503	Is there a "Hello Conquerors" in Parliament TV?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0062par0504	Two points of the National Movement Party's poll poll poll polls say that the 3 points should be transferred to BDP, moved to other parties, and they are developing the dialogue of slave-master relations as soon as they say, "Yes, sir." Again, we are so short on time, and there are also examples of how Parliament TV was interfered with its publications. Yalçın Akdoğan-,, kulavuz Yalçın-, he says. Hello, Fatih. You can't turn around. I'm out now. He says it's for his staff. We're shutting down the Parliament TV, so that no one will see it, you're giving the Live Assembly. Hello Fatih: Brother, we wanted to give the Minister of Interior a speech, and they went on. Either they're so mean to me or they're for their own staff -- I turned my back, and now I'm out, and the Deputy Chief of Police is here, and we've talked to them. The Prime Minister called in the morning. Sit there, the conqueror says, and these dialogues continue all the time.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0066par0506	He's sitting for charity. Benevolent!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0062par0507	On September 24th, the daily Haberturk reported that this is the age of decline in health and that the government has criticised the government and again asked Mr. Prime Minister to intervene in this broadcast, to intervene in the search of Alo Fatih. He does not know how to make amends like a child who has committed a crime, and he says, "We will make amends immediately. " The next day, in a different way, the same news had been mobilised for Sedef the Ministry of Health. This time, the Ministry of Health has mobilised for the care of Sedef. Again, we see a press incident that has been manipulated and censored. Dear friends, from the press the Prime Minister interferes with, no newspapers, no TV, no newspapers. What happens? There's a core cone, there's a paper bag, there's no press, there's no newspaper, but you make a core cone, and the kids build airplanes, and they play horses at each other. I'd like to extend my regards to all of you for the acceptance of this research proposal.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0067par0511	Thank you. Mr. Shamil Tayyar, MP of Gaziantep, will speak against the party's proposal. Here you are, Mr. Tayyar.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0515	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge to express the opinion of the Justice and Development Party's Parliamentary Group regarding the nationalist Movement Party's motion to investigate the allegations of censorship and self-censorship in Turkish media. I salute your high council with love and respect. As we all know, in modern democracies, the press is the fourth force after legislation, execution, judgment, and one of the essential mechanisms of democratic regime. However, it was not only in Turkey, but in all developed democracies that the meanings imposed on democracy and the media differ depending on ideologies, occupational taassuba or different interests, but also on discussing the limits of freedom of the press in all advanced democracies. Arguing in Turkey is an insider's point of view. The press, which we can't talk about until we're in multi-party political life, has been mainly the lifter of the guardian regime from then on, becoming their voice, away from social sensibilities. When it was supposed to be a democratic process, the guardian chose to cooperate with the regime. During that time, while the concept of censorship was tireless, the media, such as the judiciary, when civil politics was active, was asked to be made the instrument of the antidemocratic search of that day. As an active journalist for twenty-six years, I regret to say, the record of the Turkish press has been marooned, unfortunately it has not been able to integrate the press into the democratic regime for the duration of the time being. Let's check our memory. The news of the May 27th military coup -- the newspapers -- will know better -- was given as a headline hero. Ugly and embarrassing news was being signed for the Democratic Party staff. A member of the National Union Committee in his statement to the French news agency suggested that bodies were found in holes and in refrigerators owned by the Meat Fish Association. This article was front paged in the Cumhuriyet daily's June 2, 1960 edition. In another copy of the same newspaper, dated June 4, 1960, the body of a martyr was slaughtered and made animal food? The plans for the destruction of Cemal Gürsel. We have hard evidence. The statement was also on the front page of the Republic on June 9, 1960. At that time, the daily Cumhuriyet was so corrupt that on June 17, 1960, Menderes made a headline: ▪ Did Ardahan offer aid to the Russians?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0069par0523	Come to 2014, to 2014, to shoeboxes. It doesn't suit you, Mr. Shamil. You're a journalist.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0524	Wait a second... Cemal Gürsel confirmed this news on the same day. The newspaper's headline, dated June 9, 1960, is: "The most vicious plan of the confederates." The news -- let's read it from here -- says: "The soldiers will be gathered in a square, and the bombs will be destroyed by machine guns and private men."
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0070par0527	You're the same, you're the same.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0528	On June 16, 1960, the same newspaper was making headlines. They wrote that Menderes had stolen 32 million liras in exchange for the mansion he built in Switzerland. On May 30, 1960, in the daily Nation, the semi-instruction of the government.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0071par0530	Talk about the 1 million square metres of Hard Construction in Bosphorus! The address is clear, Hard Construction.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0072par0531	Mr. Tan, please...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0532	Seven thousand weapons and army suits were seized, and the warehouses were found, and the destruction organization was seized. When Menderes Kütahya was taken into custody outside Ankara during the military intervention, almost all newspapers were caught. They came out with the headline.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0073par0534	There's a teenager?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0535	In fact, some newspapers have written the lies of Menderes to the soldiers. Let me go to the unknown places. At that time, the Eskişehir Köf Çehir Administration Command issued a notice. Brigadier General Bedii Kirechtepe had signed the notice and had sent this notice to press agencies to be published in the newspapers. He says that all government officials and Democratic Party heads in Ankara have been caught fleeing to a foreign country. They were caught with 12 planeloads of gold, jewelry, and money. Anyone who owns a printing press in Eskişehir must print and publish this news. The same command gave a homework assignment to citizens in another hearing, where it said: "We appeal to your patriotism: I request that the Democratic Party be detained before they can escape from the province, the district and the presidents, and not be released until military forces arrive. So, is it so different now?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0074par0539	Hello, Fatih.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0540	It's not so different now. Politicians who stood up for the representation of the custodyist understanding were the same day, and the same today. I'd like to give you a few examples. Peoples' Democratic Party (CHP) President Kemal Kilicdaroğlu has taken a hand with Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) after taking office. You know, the owners of this channel are the relatives of Mr. Deniz Baykal. Telephone conversations with Soner Yalçın, who was then on trial for the Ergenekon case, were also reflected in the media at the time. Soner Yalçın İlçın is talking to a journalist on TV, and he says: "Let Hursit come on Wednesday, so let's talk about it." Hurshit is the owner of the money. How much money do we get? First we will go to Baykal, then to Kilicdaroğlu in the evening. This and many other such talks were included in the indictment of the Oda TV case. The prosecutor asked Zechariah Öz, who was described as a hero at one time as Mr. Kilicdaroglu, who later made different definitions: "Why did you have this meeting?" says Soner Yalçın: "Hurşit is the Vice President in charge of financing in CHP. We discussed the payment of debts for the age of public TV. Those phone calls, you know, they were in the press, and I'd like to pass some of them on as an example. Soner Yalçın says: "Baykal: I am not willing to rent or sell in any way." If the CHP is behind him, let him work. He says, Hursit Sun: OK, let me run it, but why? The stake in Mr. Deniz won't come to me, brother. If he trusts me and no one else, then I'll tell him to hand them over. He says, "Soner Yalçin doesn't want to hand them over to anyone." He says, "Let the party run if it needs to." They are asked in detail in the prosecution's investigation by Soner Yalçın.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0075par0543	Mr. Tayyar may press charges against the Minister of Justice.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0544	Please, please listen and we'll answer them.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0075par0545	He can press charges against the Minister of Justice.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0076par0546	Mr. Yilmaz, please...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0547	Now, some of the talks of Hakan Aygün (Aygun) from the People's TV were published in the press at that time.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0077par0548	Get over it, Kilicdaroglu is not the Prime Minister!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0076par0549	Mr. Topstone...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0550	Soner Yalçın is saying that the money we received from this CHP, please keep it between us, so that no one hears it.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0077par0551	Tell me about the pool, the pool!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0078par0552	Pool! Pool!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0553	Well, of course, technology is developing, that's what he's saying.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0077par0554	Kilicdaroglu set up a pool? Tell me about the tender pools!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0555	Doesn't that make you sad?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0077par0556	Tell me about the contractors!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0557	Don't you guys mind?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0077par0558	Tell me about the tender pools!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0559	Let me ask you something: you don't mind?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0077par0560	Tell me about the tender pools!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0079par0561	Mr. Ahmet Toptaş, Mr. Topstone...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0562	So it doesn't bother you that the Republican People's Party, according to the RTÜK Law, is a part of such a negotiation when it is not supposed to be in a television negotiation?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0077par0563	You tell me about the Prime Minister's pool!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0564	Doesn't it bother you to say hello Soner... if you talk so much?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0077par0565	Kılıçdaroglu is the Prime Minister or is he giving out tenders?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0080par0566	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0567	Now, these conversations, if you'd like, are in addition to the indictments...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0077par0568	He wants the money from the contractors, the contractors?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0569	...you'll find them very comfortable when you scan them from Google. Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu says at his meeting on February 2nd that he will see you next evening in İstanbul, our Heromarash MP Durdu Özbolat. I don't know if you have time tonight, but... he says. Soner Yalçın says: "There is, sir. There is." Thank you very much. He says, "Thank you very much." These were then asked by prosecutor Zechariah Oz to Soner Yalçın.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0077par0571	So what if he did?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0572	Soner Yalçın also says that I spoke to Zechariah Öze: "The Deniz Baykal, Hurşit Sun, Kılıçdaroğlu, and Gürsel Tequila" to deal with these matters.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0081par0573	So what happened? What's the big deal?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0068par0574	And Yalçın was also from CHP on the evening of his meeting with Kilicdaroğlu...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0081par0575	Shamil, what's wrong with this?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0082par0576	A bid, a bid?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0083par0577	Dear Topstone, please...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0081par0578	Shamil collects commissions? What's the big deal?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0084par0579	No, why is that bothering you?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0085par0580	He made a bid? There's a pool?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0084par0581	So, let me ask you something: Can the president of the CHP sit down and talk to someone about a TV negotiation?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0086par0582	Look, look, I'll be right there.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0084par0583	You've just said the pool, but doesn't your conscience bother you?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0086par0584	I'm coming now.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0087par0585	Tell me about the 700 billion bid! You don't mind the 700 billion bid?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0084par0586	Your group vice president is here. There's no need to shout like that. So raising your voice doesn't make you any more right. Please take your seats. I have listened to you patiently, and you will listen to me patiently.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0087par0587	Forget it, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0084par0588	Anyway, I won't be long, you've wasted my time. I understand your Deputy Group President will be here shortly. Please tell us about the sale of Canaturk, and about the immoral contract with Canaturk. You're gonna tell me how you paid that $3.5 million, why you paid it, what you paid it for.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0087par0590	You talk about the box! Tell me about the pool, the pool!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0084par0591	If you don't tell me, I'll bring that production contract and hand it out to all of you. Yes, one by one, I'll come and distribute it to you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0088par0593	By God, I applaud you, too! I admire your sense of democracy, you advanced democrats!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0084par0594	Mustafa Muslu, from Tuncay Özkan Vatan, says: I sold this place for $25 million. I don't believe that the Akin İpek....will follow a pro-government publishing policy in Canalturk... because Kanalturk.....
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0089par0596	Thank you, Mr. Tayyar.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0088par0597	Pro-democrats who trip democracy!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0084par0598	We've got more to tell, but we haven't had enough time. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0090par0601	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0091par0602	You just admitted you did it yourself, didn't you?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0090par0603	Congressmans, please, if you'll excuse me. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0092par0605	He insulted the corporate personality of our party, slandered it. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0090par0606	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0092par0609	Alo Fatih, change the subtitle. Turn it off. I've turned off the TRT 3. I've probably forgotten all about it and dealt with the headlines of 1960. It's probably the best sign of disproportionateness and corruption.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0093par0610	People, come to TV.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0092par0611	▪ People call it TV. Look, we're talking to the Prime Minister on the air at 30 channels, and we're talking to your party speaker, 30 channels live. Yeah, well, let's just say he's trying to broadcast a public TV in one of those poor little buildings. They're going to sell hoses; they can't advertise, businessmen, they're afraid of the financial pressure. Let us support with our heart, support with our allowance, support with our hoses, and let a channel live! What more do you want from the People's TV? Such injustice, such remorse, such corruption... such corruption, these tenders, in their own way, in those wretched buildings, under the difficult circumstances -- no personnel, no money, no cameras, no cell phones...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0093par0613	Stop it, stop being such a drama queen!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0092par0614	People can't advertise there, all the channels are closed.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0093par0615	Don't be so dramatic!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0094par0616	Congressmans, please. This is Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0092par0617	That's the People's TV that announced the travel events to these people. When the penguin media told your media about the penguins' homeworld, in those poverty, in those difficulties, those people announced it. Will it feed your eyes, feed the media, feed the newspaper? 50 TVs, 50 newspapers, all media at your service. Is there a People's TV in your eyes?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0095par0618	Don't play with the bleachers!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0092par0619	What mercy, what conscience, what morality, what politics? Alas, woe, woe!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0096par0621	Don't demagoji, answer what you say!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0097par0622	Quiet, please.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0098par0623	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0097par0624	Here you are, Mr. Tayyar.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0098par0625	I want words on the basis of sarcasm.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0097par0626	Your motive is...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0098par0627	On the grounds of bullying, although my direct name was not mentioned, he used harsh expressions here, referring to me. I want to answer that.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0097par0628	Here you are, Mr. Tayyar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0098par0632	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love. Mr. Group, I am returning your heavy testimony to the Vice President. I don't want to get into any more polymax, but I'd like to remind him of some of the provisions in that contract here. Now, in Article 3 of that contract, Kanalturk has made some commitments to CHP, saying that the promotion and ads sent by......... are being broadcast for four years without charge in the high-review generation. Participate experts to be determined by CHP -- look, party experts to be determined by CHP -- are to be hosted and published on TV in programs published in every field from sports to music...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0099par0634	What do we do, what do we do? What should we do with the TVs off?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0098par0635	I get it, but to create a board of CHP experts on a television channel...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0099par0636	What should we do?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0100par0637	Mr. Slim, please.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0099par0638	You've shut down all the channels, you've said "Hello Fatih." What are we going to do?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0100par0639	Mr. Tütin, I beg you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0101par0640	And is it right for that board to set a broadcast policy?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0100par0641	Mr. Slim, if you'd like to talk, I'll give you my word, please.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0101par0642	Again, to ensure that people or persons recommended by the party will be invited to television and radio programs, not less than seven hours a week.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0102par0643	Country TV got us out and we didn't?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0101par0644	..a guest in the news bulletins and a publication of their views.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0103par0645	He gave you a bid?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0102par0646	What? What's the big deal?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0101par0647	At least once a week, the party leader or executives appointed by CHP are invited to attend programs...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0102par0648	Okay, I'll take it. What's the big deal?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0101par0649	Yeah, well, so are we. Let people decide for themselves what's going on and what's not.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0102par0650	The other channels came out, and we didn't?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0101par0651	Why is that bothering you? Why bother? If it doesn't bother you, let the people hear it and appreciate it.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0104par0652	Tell me about the pool, the pool!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0105par0653	Please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0106par0654	Okay, I'll tell you what.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0105par0655	Mr. Fine! Please, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0107par0656	Look, he says now that he also says, "Let me read the last sentence: the publisher also commits to acting in accordance with the party view and schedule, which is not against the law in production and broadcasts. "
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0108par0657	Tell me about the bribe pools!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0109par0658	That's right.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0107par0659	That's right, isn't it? Is Public TV your backyard?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0109par0660	You've got 30 backyards and we've got one, so what? There's 30 of them!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0107par0661	No, no, your backyard? It's a very simple question. Do you finance it or do you finance it? Look, answer me straight, you commit crimes, you finance them?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0109par0662	You have 30 backyards!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0107par0663	Do you finance public TV?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0109par0664	No.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0107par0665	You cheated, you cheated. Well, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0110par0668	Thank you, Mr. Tayyar.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0111par0669	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0110par0670	Before you, Mr. Hursit asked for the Sun's word.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0111par0671	Just a minute, Mr. President. You shot him. He says. Look, Shamil Tayyar, when I was a deputy here, you were writing subsidiaries, and I don't need copies, so if you did, you would.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0110par0673	All right, Mr. Slim, everyone knows you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0112par0674	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0110par0675	I'm sorry, what's your request?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0113par0676	I didn't hear what you said, I asked because I didn't hear what you said.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0110par0677	May I have your request, Mr. Sun, if it pleases your Deputy Director of the Group? Here, let me know your request.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0114par0678	He spoke of me, and I want to clarify according to the 69th article, and he spoke of me by name.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0110par0680	I'm gonna have to ask you, Congressman, please.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0115par0681	You don't have to scold me.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0110par0682	That's how you treat someone who doesn't understand.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0116par0683	Mr. President, we're going to have a little bit of a procedural debate, and you're giving me a hard time.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0110par0684	Here you go, Mr. Sun.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0117par0686	Mr. President, thank you. I wasn't there, but my friends briefed me. The General Assembly should get information. I swear to God, that's the gist of it. Public TV is one of the various television channels in Turkey. When I was Vice President of the CHP, yes, People's TV also included CHP's ads, and their programs included other television channels. The Republican People's Party has also signed some special programme contracts while only doing a program on People's TV. We want you to publish this program. He said, "He has paid the price, and he has received the right to publish it in exchange for the price." What's wrong with that? For free, the ruling party is doing it on various channels, and we did it at cost on a television channel; where did it hurt? You do this for free on a lot of TV channels, and every night the Turkish nation watches.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0118par0690	The price is credits.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0119par0691	Pressure, threats...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0117par0692	Now, People's TV has released the Republican People's Party's ads in the elections, such as various TV channels in Turkey. What's the big deal? The contract you're reading is correct. What's wrong with that? Anything illegal? No. Is there anything immoral? No. But today, there's something immoral on a lot of TV channels, and we're watching it. You're angry at some of them. Some say there's a theft. You jump from your seats. My respects.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0120par0696	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0121par0697	Sir, as the National Movement Party, we specifically, of course, have asked members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, who have sworn in on democracy, the state of law and freedoms, to create tender pools through ministers to use the Prime Minister's actual influence to buy a media.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0122par0698	Mr. President, he's talking about things that aren't there.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0123par0699	He gave me all the answers, all of them.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0124par0700	Go answer from there.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0125par0701	If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0126par0702	Those who can't respond to this have shown that today's leaders are the manuscript of February 28th, September 12th, May 27th. They've put it out there, and that account will be questioned.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0125par0703	Mr. Vural, your speaker has already given us the information. It's on the record. Thank you. Mr. Buldan, can I get you something?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0127par0706	And those who laugh at these tender pools...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0128par0707	He gave me his answer, he gave me his answer.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0125par0708	Mr. Buldan, have you given up?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0129par0709	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0130par0710	And we see how tragically these people are when they look in the mirror. Those who launder bribes and corruption, those who defend...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0131par0711	He's given all the answers, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0132par0715	In favour of the group's proposal for the National Movement Party, Mr. Haydar Akar will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0133par0718	You're rotten, rotten!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0134par0719	He's got all the skills of bribery and corruption.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0132par0720	Mr. Vural, please, let's hear from the speaker. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0135par0722	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, my word is not really Alo Fatih. It's alo Shamil Shayyar.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0136par0723	You haven't learned his name yet.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0137par0724	The world knows Shamil Tayyar.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0135par0725	I'd like to start with Tayyar. Hello Shamil, you were in the 1960s... Yeah, I'm sorry, it was a slip of the tongue, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0138par0727	Don't bother with the personality, just give your speech.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0135par0728	Yes, Shamil Tayyar, hello Shamil, until yesterday...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0138par0729	Make your speech, don't mess with the person.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0135par0730	...Wrote books on Ergenekon and defended Ergenekon today...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0139par0731	I think you're out of tune. I think you're out of tune. I'll continue to disrupt your arrangement.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0140par0732	Mr. Tayyar, please...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0135par0733	...who spent the rest of his life trying to find ways to kiss and go to America...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0139par0734	Your tongue will slip and your tunes will break.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0135par0735	...you didn't have to do all sorts of things to become a DSP MP in 1999, and you didn't have to do all sorts of things today to become a AKP MP and do favors for the Prime Minister here.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0141par0736	Oh, my God, did he do that too?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0142par0737	Mr. President, look, he's dealing with character. In the Civil Code...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0143par0738	Mr. Elitaş, please, shut up. I'm listening to the speaker, please.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0739	Now, when you don't have anything to talk about, you talk about it. We'll go to the 1960s and we'll go to the military...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0143par0740	Give me all the warning you want, no one's listening.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0741	...you'll compare public TV, but you won't talk about AKP power for 12 years.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0143par0742	Tell me all you want.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0743	If this were a 12-year AKP ruling speech, you'd see very easily that there's no difference between you and censorship of military custody media, but I consider you lacking in knowledge and intelligence to see it, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0145par0745	Are you insulting me?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0746	No, I'm not insulting you; I'm telling the truth, the truth.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0146par0747	Mr. Akar, please... don't bother with personality, Mr. Akar, please.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0748	Now, very valuable MPs, I have made a pledge to the Turkish press on censorship and the motion to investigate auto-sensorship. However, I would like to share with you a very important piece of news before I say so. You've created an eyeful, a new victimization field. You know, the ED decisions at the airport in Istanbul have been halted by the administration court.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0147par0750	Ring the bell and play.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0751	No.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0147par0752	Germany's playing, you're playing.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0753	Yeah, well, I'm just saying, good luck, 'cause I'm gonna give you one more piece of news, and I'm gonna give you another one.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0147par0754	Put on a bell and play.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0148par0755	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0756	I'll tell you something you don't know, touch or read. German and Japanese financiers have stopped the loans they signed a month ago as a precondition for five companies who are trying to get the ATV and the Sabah contract, trying to collect $100 million each. His motive is bribery, corruption, and money collected in the pool under the Prime Minister's orders. Look it up, you'll see. I'm saying you can use it in the squares tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0149par0757	Haydar, it's so convenient, it makes sense!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0758	I have a lot of notes, but I'd like to show you this. You've just read People's TV, and bravo, you've got it, congratulations. There's nothing illegal, but I suggest you read this, Shamil Tayyar.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0150par0759	It's either in the Constitutional Court's decisions.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0760	Read this too. In the morning, the Fezleke of ATV corruption.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0151par0761	Mr. Akar, please do not speak to the person.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0762	That's 240 pages, 240 pages, to be exact. 630 million dollars by order of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Transport, at that pool... that pool is not a swimming pool, friends, it's a pool of money. There's no stream below, only a stream in one direction.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0152par0763	Hot tub, hot tub!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0764	You know how you say we cut the trunks? You turned the bigger hoses, tied them up in that pool. We're talking about a $630 million pool. There's a 240-page piece of corruption standing right here, so I suggest you all read it. Now, was it just today or today? Guys, morning, the ATV thing, as you all know, it's a gangrenous incident in the government. Even the beginning is a process that begins with low-interest loans, with the exploitation of state banks, the Foundationbank, the People's Bank, the unfair loan taken from them. Who bought this? Poach Holdings. Who's the Broken Holdings? A conglomerate with the Prime Minister's son-in-law as CEO. Also, not only his son-in-law, but also his brother's on the board; he's in a hurry to collect the money at the board of directors. I don't know why, but I think they really need this money.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0153par0766	Congratulations on your partnership with the parallel structure.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0154par0767	Good luck with the congregation.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0768	Now, let's talk about the press. We're talking about freedom of the press. He was talking about the custody period, and he had to go out and show the situation that he was in today as a journalist, where he had to talk about freedom of the press. What was he supposed to say? When the International Journalists Without Borders Organization of Paris, the 2014 World Press Freedom Index, was published, you would see Turkey ranked 154/th among 180 countries in press freedom. Again in freedom of the press... you'll find that in the process of your power, journalists with a number of 100 have been put in prison. Today, that number, as you all know, is around the 70s.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0155par0770	Do you know how many journalists are in jail?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0771	Now let's get back to the top of the line, the famous 'tape.' My dear newspaper brother just read from here, and I want to read it. I'm not going to read...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0156par0772	Read it, read it.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0773	...from Morocco, what happened to the opposition party's president, President Bahçli, accepts that, but doesn't the Prime Minister do that? He'll do it, won't he? What did he do, Chief? I'm telling you, I'm not gonna read it all: ▪ Yalçın Akdoğan: We have shut down the Parliament TV, so that no one can see it, you give the Live Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0157par0775	Aide, he's an aide.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0776	Of course. You're going to shut down Parliament TV, of course. You see them in all the state contracts -- the number of contractors that you've collected up to 500, 100 million dollars -- since you've been in power. You see in this book how he negotiates, how he makes contracts. You don't want the citizen to hear this, you don't want the public to hear it. What's he saying? We shut down the media TV. It says, "How do you make this publication now?"
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0158par0778	Don't shout, don't scream.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0779	What does Sarach the Conqueror say? I don't know how I'm gonna do it, so I cut my back. Take it now. Come on, it's okay. Yalçın Akdoğan says, "See you soon."
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0159par0780	The conqueror is our friend, we can talk any way we want.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0781	Now, Yalçın Akdoğan Mehmet Fatih Saraç tells him. Mehmet Fatih Saraç is also going to tell Abdullah. You must be wondering about Abdullah, too? Abdullah, why are we giving this Parliament TV? There you go, Mr. Fatih, we've gone out. But my beautiful brother is looking for two ministers. He says, "There are two ministers." That's another one.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0160par0782	It's so... it's so... it's so... it's so... it's so... it's so... it's...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0783	Now, the Prime Minister's report on health news...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0161par0784	You're the ones with the parallels...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0785	▪Recep Tayyip Erdogan: There was an incident, which was, like, three and a half kilos of children; his mother says he's applied everywhere; this is what he's not interested in, something like this. In the case of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, I don't read the things in between. How do you make such a title? Mehmet Fatih Saraç: It's a shame, sir, it's a shame.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0162par0786	Free press, free press!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0787	Mehmet Fatih Saraç, understood, sir. I'm now reporting from the front page of Mehmet Müezzinoğlu. He says that he'll find the Minister of Health, but it turns out he's abroad. A rush, a rush, they'll be tied up on the phone, they can't, they want to get another citizen out, they can't. Yeah, I'm really sorry you're in a jam. Now, why are they doing this? They are most assertive in health because they say there are 70 percent satisfaction rates, but they offer the most expensive health care in the history of the Republic of Turkey. And because they can't, the citizen has to carry his child's body in a sack. Now, it's not just that. Is this over? Group meetings are on Tuesdays. Of course, what do the news channels say when there are group meetings on Tuesdays? He's giving speeches to the prime minister, giving speeches to the presidents of the opposition party. How can you give, sir? Mr. Erdogan says, "Hello, Fatih, are you watching the press statement right now?" He talks about the press conference, the meeting of the State Gardener. Lord, I am at home. Wait, are you talking about the one out there, the one in Haberturk? The conqueror, you know, you guys don't know what you're doing right now, he's like Turkey's sunk, finished, completely dispossessed, explaining a manifesto like this, and you're giving it to him live, he says.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0163par0789	It's so... it's so... it's so... it's so... it's so... it's so... it's...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0790	Now, does this just end? In the Uludere incident, our Minister Taner Yildım is talking about how the news is blacked out in Haberturk. Well, there's a lot of examples, but that's not the context of my speech. I condemn them to come here and give a People's TV example, to give an example of everything that's been done legally, not to mention a single subject of what you've been doing for ten years, so I've changed the content of my speech here. But let me tell you, when you say the press, your acolyte press, the supporters from six or seven newspapers, have entered the hegemony of those five companies, entered their monopoly, turned into their group media. Haberturk is a celebration. I'm just saying, if you look at him, see how he's getting unfair bids from the government, along with the other companies, you'll know how right I am. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0164par0795	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0165par0796	Tell me about Saricul's files.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0797	I'll tell you what, bring it.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0165par0798	Explain, bring it, bring it!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0166par0799	Please, Mr. Korkmaz, Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0144par0800	Bring it, bring it, bring it, I'll go out there, bring it.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0165par0801	Ask, ask, ask the president, he'll give it to you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0166par0802	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0167par0803	Mr. President, due to the bullying...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0166par0804	Here you are, Mr. Tayyar. What is your request?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0167par0805	I'd like a word on the grounds of sarcasm, sir. I've just been called...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0166par0806	Here you go, two minutes, for dealing with the character.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0168par0807	Ask him what he said.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0166par0808	Mr. Oğan, you may not have heard the reason.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0169par0809	You didn't give the property to Mrs. President!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0170par0812	Mr. President, thank you very much. I have a small request from Mr. Muharrem Encel, the esteemed Deputy Leader of the CHP: Please, let the CHP MPs on the stand be smart if they're going to make a joke!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0171par0814	Do the dirty work, come on!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0170par0815	I'd be incredibly pleased if you'd advise them on this. Besides, I'll tell you what, you guys talk a lot about sidebars, etcetera, etcetera. When the tape of Mr. Deniz Baykal fell on the websites, at twelve o'clock at night -- I was in the Star newspaper at that time -- we spoke to our friends, we didn't report a line about him the next day because it was a disgusting conspiracy, and we said, "We will never be part of that conspiracy." And the next day, I wrote an article.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0172par0817	Who did it, why haven't you taken it off yet?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0170par0818	You've been talking all morning, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0172par0819	No, get the conspiracy out; get the conspiracy out.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0173par0820	Mr. Tan, please.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0170par0821	And also, I wrote an article, Mr. Baykal, saying, "Please don't resign from this disgusting conspiracy, please don't resign from the general office, resist to the end." But the next day, we opened Milliyet, Vatan. Many writers, including your beloved Güngör Mengi, had invited Baykal to resign.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0174par0822	The Prime Minister spoke in the squares.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0170par0823	We were in the right place at the time, we were there for you because there was a victim, but you didn't do it, you pulled a president out of the videotape. I do not know whether you like it or dislike it.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0175par0824	Oh, my God, don't be with us!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0176par0825	There's a president coming out of you, and he's about to come out of you!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0170par0826	Besides, I'll tell you this: you say censorship, you say other things. Friends, I have worked in this sector for twenty-six years, and I am a man who was fired on the orders of Mesut Yilmaz. This didn't happen? It happened, for days. They said to me, "Mesut Yilmaz has indexed his relationship with Milliyet. You're either gonna go apologize or we're gonna fire you. I said, "No, brother, I think I did the right thing. They fired me because I didn't apologize. We come from such an honorable struggle.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0177par0827	No way!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0170par0828	You may not understand it, you may not understand it, but it doesn't matter, this great Turkish nation is aware of it all.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0178par0829	We understand you so well!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0170par0830	There's nothing more to say for him. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0179par0833	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0180par0834	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0179par0835	Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0180par0836	He said I don't have any intelligence or sense of humor.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0179par0838	I don't hear it. Congressmans, if you will please be quiet, I must hear Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0180par0840	Mr. President, according to 69, he teased me by expressing that I have no intelligence or sense of humor.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0179par0841	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0181par0842	Mr. President, may I?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0180par0843	No, he won't, I'm here now, sit down.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0179par0844	I'll listen later.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0181par0845	Mr. President, this is about this.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0179par0846	Just a minute, Mr. Akar. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0181par0848	When he promised Mr. Tayyar, he said, "Mr. Akar is being bullied." You said, "What did he say?" And when you called Mr. Tayyar, you said, "That's right, he dealt with the person." You made that promise.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0179par0849	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0181par0850	According to Article 157 of the Civil Code, you know that there must be a warning penalty for dealing with the person.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0182par0851	Mr. President, can I have your attention later?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0181par0852	I suppose if you called Mr. Tayyar (Mr. Tayyar) to the stand because you were dealing with the person, you should have warned him.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0183par0853	Mr. Elitaş, thank you. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0184par0855	That's a good answer, Mr. President. That's a good answer.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0185par0857	Mr. President, I especially beg you, when Mr. Elitaş is on duty and you are on duty, do not let Elitaş take over this group.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0183par0858	Mr. Akar, please watch your language. Mr. Akar, please...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0186par0859	Mr. President, he deserves a second warning.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0187par0860	Learn the Civil Code!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0183par0861	I've never heard of such a thing.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0188par0862	Now, yes, Mr. Tayyar, I have no sense of humor, right, right, no sense of humor; we'll discuss intelligence with you; but I don't have the ability to steal, and I want you to know that very well, I don't have the ability to steal.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0189par0864	And no accomplices to the thief.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0188par0865	Now, you're saying that we've been asked by your president, but your prime minister has spoken in the squares of what you claim to have made that request. He didn't just talk about it, and he said what happened to the MPP. It was like we were going to ban it with his wife in the bedroom. Your Prime Minister had the expression.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0190par0866	It's immoral, it's outrageous.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0188par0867	Now, why are you afraid of the Internet? What are you afraid of, banning the Internet? Are you afraid your videos will come out, or are you afraid that your tapes will come out?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0191par0868	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0188par0869	There's no Internet law in any country in the world like this.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0192par0870	Lies! You don't know.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0188par0871	Perhaps many of you have not read it, and when you read the 9/A article (8) you can see what will happen to you tomorrow. With a bureaucrat there, you'll find it very easy to see it all end with him. You will see that these negotiations will be prevented from being published online and will be banned without a court order by a bureaucrat. That's where you bring the country, you guys shouldn't brag about it. You ban the Internet, you buy the media, you take away the freedom of public information, you're out, you've got a name here, you're talking like you're talking like you're talking like you're talking.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0193par0874	That's right!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0194par0878	İstanbul MP Mr. Tülay Kaynar will speak against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As a women's MP, I think it would be a little calm on your part. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0195par0882	Thank you, Mr. President. I have taken a pledge against the party's proposal for nationalist movement; I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I want to make it clear to Mr. Akar, who has been asked to be brought to the Internet, that it is not forbidden.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0196par0885	Censorship...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0195par0886	When you look at the relevant materials, you'll see that the Constitution's relevant clause...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0197par0887	Why did the European Union object?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0195par0888	...the 132nd and 134th Articles of the Turkish Penal Code also contain articles related to the protection of personal rights and privacy, and that is very important and applies to everyone. So, please, look at this as a protection of public health, and I say, please, as a conscience, as a human being, and really, take into account the health of a society in that sense. Dear lawmakers, the group proposal of the MPHP was addressed by the press censorship. Just now, I think Mr. Shamil Tayyar, our Gaziantep MP -- with very effective and important examples -- has expressed the example of really effective examples -- which, at the very last, very recently -- Mr. Deniz Baykal (Mr. Deniz Baykal) as well as the Mesut Yilmaz example of his own life.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0198par0890	That was intense!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0195par0891	So I'd like to point out, not in that way, but in the sense of some responsibilities, but especially in the interests of the state, the country. Freedom of expression and freedom of press are one of the integral elements of democracy, once and for all. Yes, I agree, it's very important. Because when you start using it as a public force, that power starts going to different points. Thus, it is of great importance that our press organizations are free, objective, objectively carrying out their duties, not ignoring the interests of the country, the order of the public, social dynamics, and the moral values required by the profession, but taking responsibility for publishing. It is also vital that the press fulfill their responsibilities without being subjected to censorship or similar restrictions. I believe that because I'm a journalist from this profession who has a press card all the time.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0199par0893	About the Fatih Line... have you ever dialed the Conqueror?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0195par0894	And when I say that I believe that because the more free the media does its job -- look, I'm highlighting this -- the better it can be for individuals and society to express themselves in that sense.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0200par0895	It's already over, the press, whatever we're talking about!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0201par0896	What do you call the "Hello Fatih" line, as a journalist, do you have an answer?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0202par0897	Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0203par0898	The basis of healthy societies, where different opinions can be voiced, discussed, is freedom of speech and also freedom of the press.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0204par0899	Is there?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0205par0900	Any instructions from the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0203par0901	True, complete, objective reporting; when it comes to objectiveness, respect for privacy and personal rights, we also have a very serious obligation to our press to protect freedoms. See, when we look at normal laws, especially in the Press Law, in the Turkish Penal Code, in the latest RTÜK Law, the changes in legal texts about this are very important in terms of the press community, but in terms of our colleagues, sometimes you make law, you enforce law, you apply law, you apply an answer, you have a right to answer, a lot like it, but I think it's also related to social mental change...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0206par0902	Yeah, well, as long as the mindset that rules Turkey doesn't change, we'll, hopefully, change that mentality.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0203par0903	...just now with live samples from our Shamil Tayyar deputy, our congressman, and the passages he gave us from his experience.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0207par0904	Why don't you give me an example?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0203par0905	Despite all that has been written and drawn -- I stress all that has been said -- that we care about the creation of a free press in Turkey, as well as Turkey's great change in democratisation and human rights -- there are also very important reforms in freedom of information and freedom of expression, which I've just mentioned...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0208par0906	Yes, you have set up the phone line!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0203par0907	...and the changes in the Turkish Penal Code, the Press Law and the RTÜK
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0209par0908	It's really important!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0203par0909	I'm also stressing the need to establish the best environment.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0210par0910	Hello, Fatih!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0203par0911	In this direction, I also stress that the media, with an understanding based on individual rights and public interest, must fulfill the necessary precision of being the fourth force. I believe that today's media, which has the power to influence, to establish conviction, and to guide, will carry out this great responsibility, of course, by a very large responsibility, as a brother of the profession.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0211par0913	▪ The lines of the Conqueror really do serve it!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0203par0914	This is a group proposal, and you're suggesting that we talk about it today, but yesterday, we started working on Law Proposal Number 546 again.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0211par0915	Alo Fatih is freeing the line! Are you thinking of generalizing it? If you're thinking of generalizing, bring in a bill. Oh, yeah? Will you make it legal?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0203par0916	That's the basic law, and it's made up of two parts. So our proposal, our prediction, is to complete the work of this law. With these feelings and thoughts, I express my opinion against the MHP group proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0212par0919	Thank you. Nationalist Movement Party...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0213par0921	Sir, it's embarrassing, it's insensitive, in the face of a mindset that's blowing the freedom of the press like this!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0212par0922	I'm going to put the nationalist movement group's proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0214par0925	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0212par0926	We've got a roll call. Let's make our diagnosis.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0215par0928	Hello, Fatih!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit01spe0212par0929	Mr. Vural, if you'll excuse me. Mr. İnce, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Öner, Mr. Aksınger, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Korturk, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Young, Mr. Akar, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Dudu. I'll give you two minutes. Here you go. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0212par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 60th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call before the nationalist movement group's proposal vote was not enough. Now I'm going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's 12/02/2014 meeting on Wednesday (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. In 11/2/2014, Smyrna MP Alaatin Yüksel and his friends issued a parliamentary research motion by the Ministry of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to determine whether there has been corruption in all ongoing tenders and results by the Ministry of Maritime and Telecommunications, and to reveal the facts in all dimensions. lu) To be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, it has been recommended to be taken ahead of the pending motions and to be read in Wednesday's 12/2/2014 jointly and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group proposal, the first speaker is İzmir MP Mr. Alaatin Yüksel. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0216par0025	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let's take a moment to remember what happened on December 17th. Our nice AKP MP friends don't like it when we talk about it, and they even blame us for keeping it on the agenda. There's a word I love about people, not saying, or doing it. So you'll take all sorts of corruption, bribes, all sorts of thefts, and condemn those who say it. It's not right.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0217par0026	How convenient for you to say such slander!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0218par0027	Show me a document, show me a document, what corruption is there? You know nothing but gossip.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0216par0028	Yes, there are talks about billions of dollars of corruption, which have been prepared about the four ministers, but the proceedings against these ministers are still not brought to Parliament. There is a file on former Secretary of State Egemen Donation among the 25 immunity files that came to parliament yesterday alone. The file concerning the donation is required to remove your immunity on grounds of defamation. There are $4.5 million in shoe boxes in the house of the Public Bank Director, who claims that two days ago, in an interview with Al Jazeera TV, it was not corruption, it was money that had to come out of the state vault in order to be corrupt, and that money was not out of the public vault. So, Mr. Prime Minister, what's this money, then, and why is it so big that 10 trillion Turkish liras are in the house, and why is it in the shoeboxes? Is it natural for an officer to have such large cash in the home of a bank manager? The Home Secretary's son's home has seven safe deposit boxes, a counting machine... the Minister is on the phone with his son during the operation. The minister asks how much money is in the house, my son? Son: You know, father, there's not much left, but three or five cents. The minister: How much money is my son? The son: 1 trillion is at work, father. The minister gives advice to his son, you tell him that you took it from him because you counseled with Sarraf. Even your nephew works with him, and you tell him that your nephew pays you what he owes you. A 700,000 TL gift watch on the arm of Minister Zafer Çalayan... isn't that a bribe, Mr. Prime Minister? Where are our former victims, indeed? I'd like them to come over here and see the House with a 700,000-dollar watch and tell us what's going on. You're trying to cover it up, cover it up, draw attention to other areas, instead of going over corruption while it's happening, because it's getting to you. You don't respond to claims that $90,999,90 on your son's trust account, military funds, finances, municipalities, everyone from your son's foundation is pouring land and land. You know, bad things come to mind. Or is this foundation business, the Ottoman business, the business of making a fortune with bribery and corruption, in the trade of influence? What does the Prime Minister say? This is the work of a parallel state, he says. Dear friends, after the 17th of December, we had a state of light, a parallel state. This is the first time that an American historian of the parallel state, Robert Paxton, uses that term, but it doesn't refer to it as a deep government, in terms of government within the state. In Nazi Germany, Hitler speaks of parallel structures created in Germany, such as the Gestapo and the SS, in order to destroy opponents who don't think like themselves, in their own ideology. In Italy, Mussolini speaks of black shirts in Italy, who destroy opponents in the direction of fascist ideology. What's the Prime Minister doing? First, the special officer, the Minister of Justice. Special official Minister Bekir Bozdağ is pressuring the undersecretary and prosecutors to stop this bribery operation. See, today, the special minister of the administration, who wrote the book, which you found more dangerous than the bomb yesterday, is praising Nedim Sener, praising Nedim in Europe, saying that they are innocent, that it is the work of the congregation to go to prison and be tried. 14 people have been arrested in the corruption of TCDD İzmir Harbor Enterprises of Bali Yıldırım, which the Prime Minister has appointed as the pool leader. Among those arrested, the brother-in-law Cemo, who is involved in a bribery, corruption operation, I do not use this statement, but the director of TCDD calls himself "The Cemo" during his talks with the director-in-chief of the TCDD. Cemo goes to the appropriate day to testify, to the appropriate prosecutor, off-duty, and, of course, he's being released. Among those arrested is Deputy Harbor Manager Birol Bafra. He was appointed from Samsun to İzmir. Along with Bafra, almost all of the shipping contracts in the port began to be purchased by Samsun-based Octopus Marinery, and almost all the tenders were given to Octopus Marinery. There's a claim that 21 tenders have been tampered with and 38 bribes have been committed. These allegations are also very clear in the statements of Izmir Maritime owner Halil Demir (Izmir). Bribes are found to be taken by Cemo the brother-in-law using a jammer in the mall bathrooms. Prosecutors were threatened to shut down the corruption of İzmir Harbor Enterprises (Bulali Yıldırım); police chiefs, deputy police officers were dismissed; hundreds of police officers were replaced in İzmir, 6,000 police officers in Turkey; some of them were replaced two or three times; their wives lost their jobs in the Apocalypse this winter, their children lost their schools. Precious MPs, in fact, lawyers, lawyers' association, the Justice and Law Association, Independent Legalists' Platform, five platforms called Youth Bar and Reform Group, lawyers Prime Minister Erdogan, Minister of Justice Bozdağ, Interior Minister AI Fellas, are threatening to influence the judicial duties of 12 people among them, to create fear and panic among the public, T. C. They filed a criminal complaint on charges of humiliating their organs, nepotism. As a result of technical follow-up, it has been determined that the money collected as bribes was exchanged in response to public tenders, that the list of these tenders was held by Bululi Yıldırım, and that they were meeting with members among themselves and TCDD Director-General Süleyman Karaman and other TCDD officials, and that they were monitoring contracts committed. It has been determined that former Minister of Transport Yıldırım has submitted construction tenders to some businessmen and asked for 10 per cent profit, commissions, in return. It has become clear that Bülli Yıldırım has made a list of who will be given the public tenders under the Transport Ministry, which firm will receive the tender in advance. In the morning corruption of the ATV, the collection of $630m from businessmen close to the government was also given to Bakili Yıldırım. Bazili Yıldırım says you will gather businessmen at the social facilities of the PTT (TTT) in Ahmadlibel, and give $630m to 8 businessmen within two months. İbrahim Chechen and Mehmet Cengiz are called to Ankara by Minister Bazili Yıldırım. At the meeting, Bazili Yıldırım ordered the Turkuvaz group to be bought by Genghis, Kolin and Limak groups under Prime Minister's orders. After the meeting, Chechen rebeles, saying he will not give money because Chechen, who had not been given the tender before, was also asked for money. Looks like they're paying $300 million from Genghis, Kolin, Limak trio, and they're getting some of the money they need from the Agriculture Bank through the Minister of Transport, from the Arab Turkish Bank. Genghis Construction's boss, but something really good happened, and if he stays, we live. He says, "Because if he stays, they'll get the contracts." Many tenders, such as Palu-Young railway tenders, Erzincan-Diyarbakir-Mardin railway tenders, are promised to their companies -- themselves. The government isn't a government, it's a criminal organization. It has been noted that 100 million euros have been paid off in off-the-books, the existence of these institutions is known, and what has the Finance Minister done about these institutions? What has been done about them as they went over Turkey's most respected institutions?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0219par0038	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0216par0039	Therefore, it is necessary to determine whether or not there has been corruption in tenders that have been opened, concluded or continued during the period of the ministry of Banili Yıldırım.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0219par0040	Mr. Yüksel, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0216par0041	...in order to reveal the full extent of the facts, the public needs to be enlightened. All of you, if you want to exonerate Mr. Bali in that sense, we expect your support.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0219par0044	Mr. Yüksel, your talking time is over. Thank you. The Republican People's Party Group has been quoted as saying it is against the proposal. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Mr. Tan...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0220par0049	Mr. President, Congressmans, we're going to talk about these corruptions again. But I'm going to deliver my opinions, my claims, in a calm tone as possible, so that there's no polemics, no fighting, no noise. Please... do the group's vice presidents answer on behalf of the AKP? I don't know if Mr. Mehdi Eker, one of the ministers, was here a moment ago, I wish I had, I wish I could say something, citizen, and he would have answered. And let them say, "This is not the truth; it is a lie, and it is a great loss." Now let's begin, dear friends. What is this argument of a parliamentary research motion? It is a parliamentary research motion for the Ministry of Transport for allegations of lzmir-based, port-based corruption. Now, my dear friends, look, a power of such confidence, a power that says there's no power, there's no need to go any further -- let's just say: "Here you go, brother, get your commissions, bring your judge, your prosecutor, your document, your document, research -- I haven't eaten six years, I haven't eaten raw." If there's nothing, Mr. Secretary, let him come out here like a lion, so you can be ashamed, bored, see, there's all these clean papers, documents, investigations, and I'd appreciate it if he'd tell you. That's what happens in democracies. I mean, there's no need to fight, no need to make noise, no need to argue, no need to slander, no need to shout, no need to talk. Now, about the allegations. I have claims, too. Look, I came out here, and I gave a speech in the recent budget talks -- Mr. Buli Yıldırım was sitting here, and the General Manager of the Highways was behind him. And then I had this conversation ten days, fifteen days later, and I did it from this podium, and I said, look, there's a construction company in Turkey. Former head of Rizespore. That's how I codenamed it. You know, don't name it, don't insult it, don't expose the company's secret documents... this guy bought the Ilisu Dam in Hasankeyf for 1 billion, 100 million euros and will find all the foreign loans himself, he'll build a consortium. It's just because it's a consortium and has an external loan, it's not done in accordance with the usual Law on Contraction. Because all dam contracts, land-road contracts, highway tenders go at 50% off, tenzilat. He was given a protocol without a note, and he couldn't find this loan for three years. He went to the Austrian firm, he went to the British, he went to the British, he went around, and the last time he got mixed up through China, he did it in a way that wasn't exactly appropriate for the terms of the tender. Because he didn't replace it. He's going to get a regular contract, and he's going to get a money contract from the budget. And so many times the government said that if this loan doesn't happen, I'll do it on my own budget. 1 billion 100m euros... then an important part of the fast train contract was given to this firm, and then Erbil gave Erbil Airport -- $420m -- to the same company, Duhok Airport TIP project -- $420 million -- to the same company, the Erbil-Kerkük double road -- $100 million -- to the same firm. When I say this, my friends here say: "Okay, this is what happened in Hasankeyf, this is what happened on the fast train, but why did you ask us about Erbil, Duhok, Kerkuk-Erbil Road, why did you give us the Kurdish government there?" I go, Mr. Barzani, and I sit at Mr. Talbani's desk, and I ask the Kurdish authorities there: "Why are you giving all these contracts to the same firms? What do you want us to do?" That's what you tell Kurd, that's what he tells you, that's what he tells you. Dear friends, in the last month of Ramazan, in this last month, the saint, blessed moon will again build a bridge to the village of Düfne of Hasankeyf (Thirdway village) in the area of the Ilisu Dam -- a bridge more than 1,070 meters [1,070 m] -- than the bridge of the throat. Again, five firms were invited, these are the same firms, and these five firms divided nearly a quadrillion jobs between them. This is the fourth time I've said this from this bench, for God's sake, someone's not answering me. The last, not at all, Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu is sitting next to me in Diyarbakır, they put us next to protocol at the Prime Minister's dinner, so I told him. He said, "Sir, all these tenders are transparent tenders, they are in accordance with the Law of Contracts." I said, "Open your eyes, Minister, look at me, you and me, in the same Islamic groups, in the same structures from 35 years ago..." Thirty-three years as a civil engineer, I've never seen such a disgrace. Do they always call the same five companies? Four jobs, five firms with invitations. It's a quadrillion-dollar job, non-tenzilated, 50 percent off. The Minister has arrived, he's stopped here for ten minutes. He tried to explain it to me before he had the right to answer. Sir, these are the poses, these are the conditions, this is what we're going to do. The firms that made these eight tenders, look, they're screaming at you, they're saying, "We're doing the four jobs you've given for one quadrillion for 500, half for half. All your terms, your face, your papers... Look, there's still no answer, dear friends. Go out and say, "Tell me why these five firms have been selected." What's the emergency, what's the big deal? I mean, there's a lot of stuff that needs to be done, so when you build a thermal plant, the contractor on the street can't do it. Granted, we know all that. So, any of these bridges, these five firms, other than six firms? Again, something more concrete, more specific. Diyarbakır will build an airport, a terminal building. We've been arguing for years, for a new airport near Çınar, between Çınar and Diyarbakir, a beautiful location of the treasure has been set up, and it's been done all the way to the state's pads to build an international airport. I've got it in the government's pafftas... I also showed this to Mr. Mehdi Eker, and opened it, and put it before him. It's official, it's the government's seal, and it's been put on the shelf for what reason? They said we're going to build a new terminal for Diyarbakir, a beautiful terminal, a beautiful project. 6 blinds, 33,000 square meters of closed space. Agreed, on the eye of the eye, do it. And they got up, and they got it, and they got it, and they got it, and they got it, and they got it, and they got it, and they got it, and they got it, and they got it, and they got it, and they got it, and Look, there's the feather. What do you mean, pre-op? He invited 15 firms, took them out. And after he's invited 15 companies, he's reviewing these 15 companies again, and he says: "8 of these or 10 of these can go into the tender. " I mean, why do you do it with invitations, it's a separate discussion, but it's enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough for all of Turkey. You're subjecting these 15 companies you call a pre-op. You know what, guys? There's 10 companies left. Again, I cried out, I went on these podiums, I did press conferences, I gave them to all the newspapers in Diyarbakır, and I said, "They're ashamed, they're afraid, they don't do it." No one cared, no one cared, no one cared, and in the end, four of these 10 companies thanked me. What do you mean, "thank you"? You called me, but I'm not getting into it. Good luck to you. 1 firm -- in this business -- did not sign the agreement; Diyarbakır was allied -- I'll give you the name of Intim Construction in Diyarbakir; it was ruled out. This document of yours is missing, this document of yours is missing. Now we can say, brother, you're out, you're out. They're all lies. Get a commission, get the papers, if that's not the case, say, "Altan Tan, you're lying to them." Bring them. And with that day's money, $270 trillion, $270 million, 150 million, this terminal building was auctioned off, folks. Look, it's in Diyarbakir, 150 million dollars, 150 million dollars that day. I said bring it, I'm a 33-year-old civil engineer, I'm doing it for half the price; I'm setting up all the collaterals, documents, documents, contrasts, consortiums. Here, I'll do it for half price. He says: 'If you had applied, you would have called.' Dear friends, now, these, as I said, are not going to happen with polemics, fighting, swearing, or whatever. You'll come, you'll pay for it with a clean face. As for the press, the press died the day Roboski was in Turkey. Until eleven o'clock, no one broadcasts from the government, from the army, from the congregation, from the other, from the other. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0221par0062	Mr. Doğan, will you answer these statements?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0220par0063	I'm waiting for them to come out and say, "That's not what happened."
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0222par0064	Thank you. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, the speaker is now Mr. Seyfetttin Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0223par0068	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favour of the Parliament's motion to investigate the corruption of the Republican People's Party in the İzmir Harbor Company and the corruption of the daily and the corruption of the sale of Sabah and ATV. I salute your high council. Now, dear lawmakers, I'm going to read you something. A meeting was held in the United States on January 25th. We should not only reduce the Welfare Party from power, but divide it. This is America's plan. They derailed our boys first, and now they're rolling them off the cliff. Erdogan didn't start the party himself, he was ordered to throw this party. Why was Erdogan involved in this project? Because he has a weakness for office, position, manpower, goods and the presidency. Voting the AKP is like buying a ticket to hell. You voted for the AKP, what's your job? You tied a hose to his back, handed the hose over to the AKP, and he gave it to the accountant. You know who says that? This is expressed in 2007 by the Prime Minister and many of you, who called him "Hocam" and treasured him, in 2007, that these words he said were real, and that many of the MPs who passed through his regime and came to this day with his ideas would be truly responsible in the presence of God. Why do you defend thefts, corruption, irregularities to the end? If nothing has passed through your throats, why would you force yourself in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey today to defend those who are involved in corruption and theft? Look, the subject of the research motion is the incident in İzmir: Who is involved in the incident in İzmir? The minister has a brother-in-law. Now, what are the others doing? The prosecutor goes and gets them, but the Minister's brother-in-law won't go to the deposition. They ask Bakili Yıldırım: Where is your brother-in-law? Why isn't he coming? When he says "He'll be back in a few days." Dear friends, there are some prosecutors there and those who have done this operation after a change, and at 7:00 p.m., they come to the location of a court president, and what do they do? He's being released. Now, according to the ethics code, the Minister's brother-in-law, we're not going to get into this, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, but we're being very frank about this: look, when operation December 17th was first launched -- there are people in you who do the Ministry of Internal Affairs -- you didn't do it. When the operation took place on December 17th, the four ministers' children were taken, the General Manager of the People's Bank, a lot of high-ranking people were taken, and they were arrested by the judge as a result of questioning by prosecutors. You know all the allegations, I'm not going in one by one. Then, on December 25th, what we call the corruption of the enemy, greater corruption than December 17th... who are the dear friends in the business? There's the Prime Minister, there's the Prime Minister's son, there's the Prime Minister's son-in-law, there's the Prime Minister's daughter, there's the ministers, there's a lot of dignitaries. Now, there's an operation going on with these allegations. As soon as this operation is done, despite the prosecutor's instructions, law enforcement officers do not function. Now, dear friends, is it possible that a law enforcement force in the state of the Republic of Turkey or in a state of law has failed to comply with the orders given by a police officer who serves as a law enforcement officer? But you did this. Now, look, what reason did you take to do this? You said: there's a coup d'état to the national state, there's a parallel structure. Behind the parallel structure is America, England, which is what they have outside powers, trying to destroy us -- so-called -- they're trying to destroy the leader of the century. I'm telling you from here, Mr. President State Gardener said: We've been shouting from here for a month and a half, and we say, "Come...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0224par0072	We hear you, don't shout.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0223par0073	I'm gonna scream, I'm gonna scream, I'm gonna scream, I'm gonna yell, I'm gonna yell, I'm gonna yell, I'm gonna yell, I'm gonna yell, I'm gonna yell, I'm gonna yell, I'm gonna yell, I'm gonna yell, I'm gonna yell, I'm gonna yell, I'm gonna yell, I'm gonna yell, I'm gonna yell, I'm gonna yell, I'm gonna yell.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0225par0074	Shout, people are rioting, consciences are rioting.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0223par0075	Now, we say, "Come, for God's sake, and come, for God's sake."
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0226par0076	The thieves won't scream, you'll scream, the thieves will shut up.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0223par0077	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary, come in for God's sake and explain from this stand whoever's behind this. Is there America, is there England, is there France? But I know very well, what the AKP people once said at a meeting where we were sitting: behind our gentleman, behind the boss is America, we are strong, we have dealt with the military, we've dealt with the judiciary, no one can stop our power until 2023. There are many of you who have witnessed these conversations. Now, I'm asking you, come and explain this. If there's a secret, if there's a secret, we said, "If there's any secrecy that concerns the nation, if it concerns the state, let's have a closed session in the House." Explain it to us, for God's sake! If we don't stand by the national government as the National Movement Party more than you do, we'll be damned. I'm telling you, for us, the length of the state is inevitable, but come and explain this, dear MPs, come and explain.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0227par0078	The trial's going on, so what are we going to explain?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0223par0079	But for the sake of God's sake, I'm going to ask you something: if the prime minister is involved in theft, the minister is involved in theft, the minister's children are involved in theft, if some bureaucrats are involved, if there are businessmen involved, if there are lawmakers here, lawmakers who have nothing to do with it, lawmakers who have nothing to do with it, lawmakers who don't have anything to do with it, who don't take bribes, who don't give it, who give it to you, who give it to you in an environment where there's a curse, who voted for you, and who voted with media manipulation, who voted for corruption, and corruption and corruption, they're going to destroy our government. Mr. Prime Minister, I have no doubt that my prayers will be questioned. Not only that, he'll say, who has no doubt about his absorption, I've been running this country for the past two years. I've been Prime Minister of this country for 12 years. In the history of the Republic of Turkey, this nation has given me authority to no Prime Minister, no government. If I told the prosecutor and police officer of this country, which I have ruled for twelve years, who would I trust? If you loved God, would this happen today? I'm asking you: who can set up a Turkish prosecutor, who has not been robbed today, who can set up a Turkish police? Could there be a prosecutor to frame the Prime Minister today, dear friends? Can a cop frame the Prime Minister? So that's not possible. If you don't get out, if you're not involved, in front of this nation... look, there's tapes, there's tapes, 274 pages, 274 pages of tape. There's only one thing in these tapes that I won't go on, but- there's so many disgusting speeches, so many people's goods have been touched, it's so forbidden, for God's sake, why doesn't someone come and explain it to us? The coup d'etat to the national state, the parallel structure, the parallel state. Who is this parallel state? You've been running this country for 12 years. Now you're going out, you're saying that if there's a parallel structure in this country, if there's a parallel structure, you've created that parallel structure, and it's your job to expose it, but you're going to assume a whole community, you're going to think you're going to do it, you're going to do it, you're going to do it, you're going to treat it like a thief, you're going to do it like a traitor, you're going to do it yourself. You're the government, you're the ministry, if there's a parallel structure, if there's a traitor, whether it's a prosecutor or a police officer, you do what you have to do with your arm. You have the MIT, you have the Police, you have all the agencies of the state, you have all the valuable friends, you have all the departments of the state, but... because you have the account that you can't. Look, my dear friends, when you were in power, there was no ATV, there was no A News, there was no A News today... the Prime Minister is opening a grocery store, and if you like your God, 50 channels live. Which of these channels did you have when you were a government? But what did you do? You went to the nation and became a ruler, but today you have become a stranger to the nation that you have come out of, because you have fallen into corruption, you have been with the corrupt, you have forgotten the poor, you have forgotten the poor, you have forgotten the poor, you have forgotten the strange guru, you have forgotten the valiant man of Anatolia. You have been involved, but remember that if you go like this, if you go like this, if you go like this, and you go like this, the people of the 28th February process would have taken all the power into their hands. They said, "It will take a thousand years." Don't forget, your fate will be no different from theirs. You'll go the same way because you're afraid of the people.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0228par0084	Thank you. İzmir MP Ali Ashık will speak against the Republican People's Party Group proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0229par0088	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group against the Republican People's Party Group's motion.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0230par0089	You really shouldn't have.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0229par0090	Especially since December 17th, it's growing stronger, and it's...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0231par0091	The one who
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0229par0092	...a conspiracy against Turkey, which lays a hand on all friends and relatives who need to be reached out. [HHP and MHP in rows ▪Bravo/!) Their voices, applause!) In the face of this conspiracy, those who thought we were going to take the hat and leave, like some people, were mistaken. Because we got the support from the nation, we got the power from the nation.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0232par0093	Where'd you get the money, the money?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0233par0094	Who did you get the money from?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0234par0095	Who did you get the money from?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0235par0096	People bring us and people drive us.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0236par0098	Congressmans, please!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0237par0099	Who did you take the stuff from?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0238par0100	And you got the money from the people.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0236par0101	Bear with the speaker, please!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0239par0102	I just spoke to the attorneys of the defendants there regarding the operation in İzmir. Because we don't have prosecutors and judges like you delivering us documents that are still classified in court.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0240par0104	Give it up, Reza Zarrab is proud.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0239par0105	The subject, referred to as a port operation in İzmir, started listening in 2010, finished in the seventh month of 2012.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0241par0106	And then?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0240par0107	So...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0239par0108	The tender was held in the fifth month of 2012.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0240par0109	So...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0242par0110	And then?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0243par0111	Congressmans, please listen respectfully; you can hear it from here.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0244par0112	The company that received the tender, or rather the one who complained...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0245par0113	So...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0244par0114	Yes, Mr. Oktay, I mean, is there any practical point in calling me "Ee," like this, like a cooked head? Listen, I'm telling you like a human being.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0246par0115	Mr. Speaker...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0245par0116	I swear to God, he's as shameless as a...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0244par0117	No, but I mean, what does that mean?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0246par0118	Mr. Speaker...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0247par0119	You're talking shamelessly like a baked head.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0244par0120	Is that all right?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0246par0121	Mr. Speaker, please continue your discussion with the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0248par0122	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0244par0123	I'm talking to no one, no disrespect. Why do you mean, uh, what do you mean, uh, as Acting President of the Group? Why are you being disrespectful?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0248par0124	Are you salt or oil? Salt shaker, salt shaker!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0249par0125	Come to bribes, bribes!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0250par0126	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0251par0127	Dear friends, listening ends in 2012 in the seventh month.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0249par0128	And then?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0251par0129	The tender is held in the fifth month of 2012. After the tender was made...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0252par0130	How do you know?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0251par0131	We talked to the company, honey. I'm talking to the people who did it. I'm talking to their lawyers. But I'm doing a good job of politics.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0253par0132	Mr. Speaker, would you please address the General Assembly?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0254par0133	So you're not a congressman, you're a business stalker? You're on a job trail?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0251par0134	Don't know?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0253par0135	Don't answer the taunts, please.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0251par0136	Dear friends, the tender is completed in 2012, in the fifth month of 2012. The complainant firm is applying to the KİK (CİK) and refusing the request. Not enough. He's applying to the administration court. He's refusing the request. So what's in the legal state? All actions and procedures of the administration are subject to trial. Have all the judicial routes been tried? It's been tried. Is that clear? It's been taken.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0255par0137	Who took the money?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0256par0138	Did you ask the firm?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0251par0139	But despite all that, he's making a complaint.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0257par0140	Who's got the money, the money? Say those things.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0251par0141	After that complaint, a week after Mr. Bivalli Yıldırım, our former Transport Minister, was announced as a candidate for İzmir Metropolitan Mayor, his brother-in-law was removed from the shelves, which ended in the seventh month of 2012. Now, folks, this has happened to you, and it's happened to a lot of people. How many people in Turkey have not suffered much from the judiciary?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0258par0143	Why change prosecutors? For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0259par0144	Tell me about the money.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0260par0145	Talk about money, corruption, theft. I mean, why are you defending all this?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0146	Now, these wiretaps are based on CMK 335. What is this? It gives you unlimited listening. I mean, there's a wiretap, but don't mess up the contract.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0262par0147	You've been listening to us for years.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0148	Now, from here, we're trying to build a purpose to wear down our Minister of Binali Yıldırım, our Ýzmir Metropolitan mayoral candidate. [[The sounds of the CHP and the MHP.]] See, dear friends, if there was this corruption, why is a hearing that ended in the 7th month of 2012 being activated on February 7th of 2014? Do you not understand? Do you not ask your conscience?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0263par0151	Ask your conscience! With what conscience and the legislature... do you have a conscience? The Izmirians are watching you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0264par0152	Congressmans, please remain serious.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0153	Dear friends, the complainant firm has done this for ten years, has done it for ten years, has been held in accordance with the terms of the tender, but despite that, on February 17th, the sneaky plan against national will, national capital, national powers has been initiated by Izmir's foot. [HHP and MHP rows ▪Bravo! Their voices, applause (!)
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0263par0154	Corruptions, nationals!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0265par0155	Robbery, theft!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0156	We haven't been crushed by this kind of thing, and we won't be crushed by it. We've paid for everything that's ever been done, and we'll answer for it from now on.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0266par0157	You didn't answer for anything.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0158	We're going to charge the Prime Minister and his team with theft, and those who try to insult them, we're going to charge them in court.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0267par0159	Izmirli Bali trusts Yıldırım.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0266par0160	The thief is chasing the police.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0161	Dear friends, there has now been a similar operation against the mayor of İzmir Metropolitan, before the 2011 elections.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0268par0162	Tell me about the thief.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0163	There's an indictment over 400 pages. İzmir Metropolitan Mayor Aziz Kocaoglu is also on trial for three hundred ninety-seven years...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0269par0164	So?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0270par0165	It's a gang of robbers.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0166	...and I'm the opposition MP in İzmir, I'm the ruling MP here, but the ruling Republican People's Party in İzmir and I came out there as the MP of the opposition in İzmir, and I said: "We've changed the shape of the courts, but we haven't changed the mentality yet. I said it was wrong, and I explained it to the public. I said it in front of the press, I didn't say it in closed places. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, Applause in CHP rows!]
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0271par0167	Bravo!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0168	And St. Bigoglu wrote a book about these operations today. He didn't do anything to Izmir. Now he says it's the choice of the namusians and the scoundrels. There's a trial about 400 pages ahead of you, and we're talking about it. Dear friends, look, I didn't go out and tell St. Kocaoglu once, I didn't call him a thief, I didn't say a thief. Why?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0272par0169	Because it's not.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0170	No, it's not. If he's going to get an acquittal, if I say so, I'm going to insult that judge.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0273par0171	You didn't give the judge a chance, you took the judges.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0172	You're wearing tape before you've even filed an indictment. Guys, don't mix tape and cork. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) That's not gonna happen. So we're saying that these are things that are done for perception management. This nation recognizes the thief by the way he walks, by the eye.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0274par0173	Right, right.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0275par0174	The tape from Ergenekon?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0175	You can't fool people with tapas and mapes like that. You know, these people aren't wise. So, if Alaatin Assaleh... since you're so decent, you're doing politics on such an honor. Then why didn't you give me another candidate and show me St. Kocaoglu? He's still on trial. A man on trial...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0275par0176	What's it to you?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0177	You may not believe it, because we showed it to him. But why do you call the other judge "Namusless"?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0276par0178	Who's on trial?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0179	Why are you guys branding those who haven't even filed an indictment yet?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0277par0180	He's a thief!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0181	Then let's say the same thing. But we respect the law.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0278par0182	Show me the photos.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0183	Until the trial is over, we will never call anyone "namusless" until the process is over. If only you had dealt with Izmir, instead of dealing with them. See, every flood, Izmir faces these landscapes.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0279par0184	What's in it, what's in it?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0185	In trouble, the fire department was flooded to save people. Build a project, guys. Go out in public with projects, do what you do, don't make small talk, respect the law.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0279par0187	You know, the swamp in the paperhouse...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0188	You hate that Binali Yıldırım's brother-in-law was not arrested. In this country, the child of the ministers was arrested as minister.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0280par0190	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0191	That means he's fine. So don't shout here, speak to the public.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0280par0192	Mr. Ashy, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0261par0193	Just as we came to media-free, as we came to power when the media was in front of us, embrace, unite, come to power, everything will be lawful to you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0280par0195	Mr. Ashy, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0281par0196	You changed the prosecutor, you changed the judge.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0282par0197	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0280par0198	Here you are, Mr. Ascendant.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0282par0199	Mr. President, I'd like to speak according to 69, because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0280par0200	Why? I don't understand.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0282par0201	He named me Alaattin Asil, Mr. Alaatin Asşaş.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0280par0202	Now, he didn't tease you, he just asked you a question.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0282par0203	No.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0280par0204	I'll make you a promise, but I'm trying to tell you whether or not I'm trying to explain it.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0282par0205	Okay, I want to explain without teasing.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0280par0206	He didn't tease you about who you were, he just asked you a question.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0282par0207	He's about to make a statement, yes.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0280par0208	I'll give you one minute to answer that question. Take your seat.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0282par0210	Put him on the stand, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0280par0211	To your place, Mr. Ascen, not to the stand.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0282par0212	Sir, from the stand. There's teasing, and he's asking questions. Besides...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0280par0213	There was no bullying against you, Mr. Yüksel. I listened very well. He just asked you a question.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0282par0214	Look, I'm not gonna ask you to pick on me. I'll tell Bakili Bey we didn't call him a thief. We're not calling anyone a thief.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0280par0215	Congressman, if you tell your friends, don't raise their voices, I don't hear you. He's never made a move on your person.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0283par0217	He said he didn't.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0280par0218	He didn't say you said anything contrary to an idea you suggested.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0284par0219	That's what he said.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0283par0220	That's exactly what happened.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0285par0221	Is that all right, Mr. President? The question is completely contrary to me...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0286par0222	I'll give you a brief statement from your position.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0285par0223	Please, no, I want a two-minute word from the stand.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0286par0224	Wait a minute... I'll get the transcripts, and I promise not to pick on them if I have to. Please, take your seat now, and I'll give you my word for a minute to explain.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0287par0226	You said the word he didn't say, Mr. President. It's clear, it's clear.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0286par0227	Please...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0288par0228	Mr. President, by passing my name...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0289par0229	He told me about the fire department.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0290par0230	He told me about the fire department.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0291par0231	Congressmans, when you all scream together, there's no promise. I'm in dialogue now.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0290par0232	Ma'am, is this place on fire?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0291par0233	Please, don't let the third party talk.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0292par0234	Look, Mr. President, I don't want to be bullied, and I want to tell you that we didn't call Mr. Buli a thief.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0291par0235	Look, I don't want to be bullied. You said that, didn't you?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0292par0236	Look, I...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0291par0237	Now, then, look, let's make a deal. When you don't want to talk about bullying, it's my job to promise you your place. You've stated that I don't want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0292par0238	No, I didn't.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0291par0239	Now that you mention it, I don't want to talk about bullying. You said it.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0292par0240	I'd like to hear from you in 69. I said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0293par0241	Mr. President, Mr. Asşali has spoken as if he had said something he did not say about Yıldırım. So Mr. Yüksel suggested something other than what he suggested. We want to speak for him according to Article 69.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0294par0243	Okay, that's good, that's how I would have promised you, but I didn't want you to talk about being arrogant. When I said that, I pointed out your position. Mr. Tünce has made the necessary statement. Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0295par0248	Dear lawmakers, we didn't call anyone a thief here. Let's set up a research commission, see if there's any theft, bribery, corruption, or not.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0296par0249	Why didn't you tell me earlier? Why didn't you say the same thing about Izmir? Come and support me, one. Secondly, he's talking about one tender, Mr. Speaker. We're not talking about 1 tender, we're talking about 21 bids and 38 bribes. If you guys shut up, you'll know what I'm talking about. We get it.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0297par0254	We're talking 38 bribes, two. Three, you also said that in the evening about St. Kocaoglu, the mayor of Izmir Metropolitan, it's true. St. Bigoglu didn't wait a year or so like you said, he was rested for eight years and monitored by cameras. After eight years of rest, there are bureaucrats who were operated ahead of the June 2011 elections, who were taken from their homes, their workplaces, and imprisoned for 22 months, and in that indictment you mentioned there is not a single bribe, embezzlement, unjust enrichment, irreparation, and that's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. Do you know why the mayor of Izmir Metropolitan is being tried, what's in the indictment? There's milk, poor kids get milk from the manufacturer and give it away for free. There's helping tangerine manufacturers to keep their tangerines from staying in the field. Why did you bring Şevval Damascus to İzmir without contract? How many are there, dear friends of Sevval Sam?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0298par0257	There's a fountain parking lot.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0297par0258	Look, St. Bigoglu went to court. We were tried in court for a hundred hours. You too, if nothing else, bribe, or corruption, theft, come out before the judge, and be judged. That's all we want, that's what we're saying.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0298par0259	Let him be judged.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0297par0260	We're being judged. He's been on trial for over a hundred hours, those bureaucrats, and they've made everything perfectly clear. It turned out to be quite clear that they had nothing to do with it.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0299par0262	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0300par0263	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0299par0267	I will submit the Republican People's Party Group's proposal to your votes, and I will look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... all those inadmissible... (AK PARTY rows have, there are.) Let's do electronics. All right. We vote electronically. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0301par0272	There's something wrong with math.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0302par0273	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0303par0274	The Court Clerk says there's a place here. Shame!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0304par0275	It's fraud...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0305par0276	Let's keep it serious, folks. This isn't a place to make jokes, please... please.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0306par0277	Don't count the entries, Mr. President. First, the Court Clerk has to be serious. You don't see all these people coming in, do you?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0307par0278	Do we have enough meetings here? Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0305par0280	The decision has enough, the group proposal has not been accepted. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of Bart's MP Yilmaz Tunç and 77 MPs in the 3rd place, where we are left with the Law Proposal and the Justice Commission Report for Changes in Some Laws. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the United Nations Development Programme between the United Nations Development Programme and the European and Commonwealth Community Regional Service Centre in Istanbul in accordance with the Agreement Approvement of the Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the 5th ranking, Samuel's MP, Ilyas Şerem and Ağrı MP Eklebi and 18 MPs, Haydar Akar's proposal for amendments to certain Law and Laws; Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and Millitarian Movement Party Deputy Chair Mehmet Şansin MP Mehmet Şandir; 657 State Officers' Law Proposal for Changes in the Law; Neveli MP Haydar Akar's proposal to make amendments to certain Laws in accordance with the Laws and Laws of Laws and Laws on Humanity Acts; Agreement of Humanity and Aids to Aids on Aids of Humanity Movements Group Group members of the Nationalist Movement Party (Secondition), An additional Article of Humanitarian Party (Sec. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The talks on the first part of the first part of the law proposed under Article 91 of the Civil Code were completed in the last session, and we stayed in the vote of the motion on continuing negotiations according to Article 72 of the Interior Charter of İzmir MP Oktay Vural. Now, to remind you, I'm going to reread the motion and put it to your votes. I propose that the division talks continue according to the Charter 72. (x) 546 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 59th Union Charter, dated 11/2/2014.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0308par0313	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0305par0314	I'm having him read his motive: To make it better understood.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0308par0317	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0305par0318	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0308par0319	Sir, I asked for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0305par0320	I didn't hear that. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0308par0321	Sir, it's not that you haven't heard, it's in the reports, it's about hearing...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0305par0322	Okay, I'm not saying anything, I'll say it again.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0309par0323	Mr. President, you've voted.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0310par0324	No way! Let go if you love God!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0305par0326	Now, I took the vote, but Mr. Oktay Vural pointed out something.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0309par0327	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0305par0328	Mr. Elitaş, it's okay. Mr. Elitaş, Mr. Oktay Vural has made a sign that I don't understand. Now we're gonna do what needs to be done. Let me talk to my friends.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0311par0330	Sir, there's a clause in the Civil Code concerning this, and if there's anything wrong with the vote, you're going to open a procedure discussion.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0305par0331	Yes, there is such a procedure in the duties of the Presidential Court, Article 13 of the Civil Code. I'm going to apply for a vote to re-correct, and I'm going to look for enough to make a decision. I vote: those who agree to the motion... I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0311par0333	Sir...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0305par0334	Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0311par0335	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0305par0336	Let's do it electronically. Two minutes.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0311par0338	Mr. President, what are you voting?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0305par0339	I'm having them read the motion according to the Civil Code 72.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0311par0340	Okay. Sir, you claim there's been a mistake. You're going to open up a formal debate, you're going to have to put it to a vote and correct it if you have to.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0305par0341	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0311par0342	You're going to start a formal debate. So do it accordingly.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0305par0343	Now, Mr. Vural, I didn't really see your signal.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0311par0344	Sir, but I did. It's not about seeing. I've said it twice.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0312par0345	Mr. President, you've taken a vote.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0305par0346	I didn't see that. Mr. Vural, we're trying to fix something.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0312par0347	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0313par0348	Your clerks saw it there, and I told them. I want the number of decisions. I said.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0305par0349	Mr. Vural, over. I didn't see it. I'm telling you, you didn't tell me. I'm not saying it. I didn't see it, and we're trying to fix it right now.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0313par0350	Okay. Sir, then you're going to have a formal discussion. Make a correction from now on.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0305par0351	I don't need to start a formal debate. I'm not objecting that you've asked for enough to decide.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0314par0352	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0313par0353	Sir, but you took a vote.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0314par0354	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0313par0355	Now, you said yes to the General Assembly's will on this matter, and then you cannot convert will into your own will. I'm not talking. I'm saying, open up a legal debate, and then they'll correct the report.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0314par0356	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me for a moment.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit02spe0315par0357	You know what? I'm gonna take a ten-minute break. Let's get the group vice presidents in the back, and we'll sort this out.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0315par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 60th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I will repeat the motion to continue the talks submitted by Izmir MP Oktay Vural under Article 72 of the Civil Code, and seek the number of decisions that will be sufficient. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... We'll vote with the electronics. I'll give you two minutes. Here you go. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We're still negotiating the proposal. The commission is here, the government is here. Now we're going to do the QA. I'm going to read the names of the MPs who entered the system for the last round of questions and answers, and I'm going to promise them first in this order: Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Gök, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Akar, Mr. Bayraktutan. Mr. Yüksel, come in. The lawmakers I've read your name will please enter the system.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0316par0016	Who, sir? Can you read it again?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0315par0017	I repeat, Mr. Yüksel, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Gök, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Akar, Mr. Bayraktutan. Mr. Yilmaz, you're in, you're in, you're in.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0317par0019	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, when we look at these figures now, there are six or seven businessmen in particular, who are heavily employed by the state and by the AKP municipalities. Here, we see it in this Morning-ATV, where $100 million is being collected. The amount of money collected is said to be $630 million, and it's being shipped in an armored car. As a minister in charge of the economy, is this money unregistered money, does it hurt the country's economy? And my second question is, I know that you believe that Mr. Prime Minister is calling the Editor-in-Chief of Haberturk, from Morocco, and that this is the news of the MPHP, that Yalçın Akdoğan says, "Hello," that Yalçın Akdoğan lowers the voice of opposition in TRT 3, and I know that you believe in democracy, and that you think that our country is on the path of democracy? Where is that in democracy, Mr. Secretary? I'm waiting for an answer to that question. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0318par0023	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0319par0024	Mr. Secretary, as you know, there's been talk of a $630 million purchase recently, so there's been a problem between the Morning and ATV's Turkuvaz Media Group, the firms assigned by the Prime Minister of Transport, former Minister Binali Yıldırım, in regard to this sale and taxing it. How did this sale happen? How did these companies show this money in their own records? Is this sale taxed? Have these businessmen and their corporations had any tax settlement agreements?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0318par0025	Thank you. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0320par0027	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, when this corruption and bribery investigation began, the Prime Minister said it was a conspiracy. An investigation into four ministers and their minister's children has been launched. Now, I particularly want to ask you, if this is a conspiracy, why hasn't such an investigation been launched against Mr. Ali Babacan? Why hasn't Mr. Mehmet Simsek been investigated? Why hasn't Mr. Mehmet Simsek been served in the past period? I want you to give me a clear answer about this, and will the appointment of prosecutors, the appointment of judges solve this problem, remove these allegations of corruption and bribery, and be cleared of public conscience? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0321par0030	Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0322par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as you know, there was about $4.5 million in shoe boxes in the home of the General Manager of the People's Bank. The People's Bank tried to separate it as a policy that it had nothing to do with the bank, that it had something to do with the General Manager himself, especially so the bank wouldn't be harmed, but you waited a long time to depose the General Manager of the People's Bank. One, why did you wait? Two, is it the Prime Minister's orders? Because two days ago in Al Jazeera, this is not a robbery, this is not a bribe. There is no money out of the state vault. He said. You believe that, too? Do you know what this money is? Are there other people at the People's Bank like this, and do you intend to dismiss them? Three, these serious claims of your government...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0323par0036	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0324par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Artvin has a contract in 2012 called Cerattepe. I've been bidding on this Parliament for two and a half years. What I told you was that I've been able to determine that this contract was a package deal, that the terms of the contract were a story in a sense, that it was describing a firm. The firm I told you about didn't buy it, another firm did. Now, these tape recordings have been published regarding Sabah-ATV. I'd like to share one thing with you about the conversations between the owners of these two tender companies. It says that someone has to apologize to someone very much: we're not that stupid, we have to give it to them. We don't find that money on the road. I don't want to tell you the names of the firms, but we know what the Cerattepe contract is, and so do many of our MPs. Are you going to examine this in detail and attempt to cancel this stinking tender as soon as possible, or are you going to continue carrying this plague on you? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0325par0040	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0326par0041	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to know how many law enforcement officials and how many prosecutors have been replaced after the December 17th corruption operation. Another question is, farmers now have a lot of problems with executive offices. I'd like to know if there's been a study of farmers' debt. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0327par0045	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0328par0046	Minister, we have noticed a saying in the documents that revealed Reza Sarraf's bribery relations. We couldn't get close to two ministers, he says. One is Ali Babacan, one is Mehmet Simsek. I wonder if you acted at the distance you put in Mr. Reza Sarraf, under the influence of the MIT reports that appeared eight months ago, or if you stayed away because you mistook the behavior of your other friends. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0327par0048	Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0329par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how much of the $750 million loan from Halkbank and Vakifbank have been repaid so far during the purchase of Sabah and ATV by the Çukukuk Group? If all of this is not paid off, what are the rules of changing hands, and can you explain it? Secondly, the Prime Minister testified that a pool of $630m in money was collected by businessmen to buy a television channel. By whose direction is this money collected by what rules, by which businessmen? Isn't that looting or bullying? I'd like your opinion on that. Is Turkey so unclaimed? How do you feel about executives who give $1 trillion or so of instructions to a businessman over a phone call? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0330par0053	Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0331par0054	Minister, 10,000 teachers were appointed for the country's absence of 130,000 teachers, while 530 were left open. How do you feel about closing all these gaps in the country? Besides, what kind of work do you have on people who have a large number of pensioners who still can't retire when they're paying their premiums? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0332par0057	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0333par0058	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to first express that when you look at our party programme in 2001, when you look at all of our election statements so far, when you look at our government programmes, you're actually going to see some fundamental principles about a lot of things. What are these? First of all, it's the fight we've given so far to make Turkey a real law state. Political reforms have been done in Turkey, you know four separate judicial reforms, we've submitted them to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, they've all been accepted, but there's at least as much to-do list ahead as what's been done. It's essential that the rule of law really dominates Turkey and that we become an advanced economy to become a first-class democracy.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0334par0061	You take judges, prosecutors, you move them, and then you talk about the state of law, and that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0333par0062	Of course, we need to look at Turkey's history and look at 11 years of developments, but more importantly, we need to look at what needs to be done from now on. Now, Turkey's implementation of a regulation market economy...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0335par0065	Mr. Secretary responding, please.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0333par0066	...again, one of our most important principles is the standard market economy.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0336par0067	This Congress needs to be respected. What the hell is that supposed to mean?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0333par0068	Here, again, as the principle of governance, transparency, accountability, and so many of the arrangements we've made so far, have been our basic principles. Looking at this whole framework, I especially benefit from stressing that the fight against corruption, again, in 11 years, has become one of the most important things that we care about, and there have been significant steps taken, but there is no doubt about it. There are also important issues to be done in Turkey to boost transparency and strengthen the fight against corruption, and there are steps to be taken, and there is an important preparation for our delegation of already concerned ministers. And there's also a great benefit in saying that we, as a policy, go over all the allegations of corruption, and no corruption is covered up, and I want to stress that in particular.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0337par0071	I'm going to take the judge off the force...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0333par0072	On the other hand, in Turkey, it is important that the judiciary work independently so that it can work properly again, but it is also very important that the independent working judiciary act impartially.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0337par0073	The neutrality of Recep Tayyip Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0333par0074	The neutrality of the judiciary as well as the independence of the judiciary is an important principle. In particular, in the past two and a half months, when we look at events that have occurred in Turkey, there are significant indications that some employees, some officials, work in a different chain of command, both within the judiciary and within the Security and even in some other state institutions. And each institution, within its own organizational structure and should work within its own chain of command, is undoubtedly an important risk for our state, especially for the Republic of Turkey to take different steps with instructions from different places. In fact, many of the steps taken in these past few weeks have been taken as far as possible about the people who have been identified as working within these different chain of command, and that's an important part of it. Of course, that's not the only reason, there are other reasons, but the steps are mainly meant to be. Of course, whether it's the private sector or the state, it's critical for Turkey that our institutions, especially our institutions, work within the universal legal norms of the judiciary, work within a certain initiative. Here are the references that we received when we said universal law norms. It's not just during our administration, it's the norms that came before. What are these? These are the norms of the Council of Europe, the European Union...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0338par0076	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary is not answering questions. Let him answer the questions.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0339par0077	Congressmans, Mr. Secretary is responding. We have no right to interfere with your answer. Please... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0340par0079	How can you not have the right? You're interfering when you're talking.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0341par0080	Now, look, the question is...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0342par0081	He deposes judges and prosecutors, relieves the police, talks about the state of law. This is an insult to the House.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0341par0082	If you'll excuse me... look, some of the questions asked here are related to ongoing trial processes. You need to remember that shooting statements, statements, interferences, will already cloud the independence of the judiciary again.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0343par0083	Mine wasn't about the case, it was a political question.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0341par0084	Second, some questions are also a secret under the Banking Law and Turkish Trade Law, again under the Law of Debts. It is not possible for commercial secrets or banking secrets to be spoken publicly again, nor is it possible for public information to be made...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0344par0085	Why are you so secretive?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0341par0086	But here's the thing: look, there's no secret against judgment, all of the things you're talking about are things that have already been brought to justice.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0345par0087	There's an intervention in the judiciary, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0341par0088	Now, a question has been asked about our General Manager of the People's Bank. Look, the day our General Manager of the People's Bank was taken into custody, there was an appointment to replace him immediately.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0345par0090	You're already going to appoint him, but why did he take so long to decommission him? It's taking too long!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0341par0091	The board immediately appointed one of its vice principals as a deputy director, and there were no decentralisations on that day, and as a result of a thorough study, we have identified a new general manager from several candidates, and as of Friday evening, the new general manager, the General Manager of the People's Bank, has also taken office. There is no such thing as the secret of economics in the face of justice, or the secret of banking, and the judiciary can reach all sorts of information, and the important part of the issues you're talking about are the issues that are already being brought to justice, but there are no issues that can be made clear or we can answer openly, because the answer itself is prohibited by the laws adopted by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. So, what's important here, together, as Congress, as government, is to take measures that will allow the judiciary to work truly independently and objectively from now on.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0346par0094	But why is the judiciary being interfered with, Mr. Secretary, what do we do as legislation?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0341par0095	Here, look, your system...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0346par0096	What do we do as Congressmen? Is Mr. Recep doing all this?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0347par0097	Why didn't you say anything to the press?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0341par0098	Now, let me put it this way: look, some of the questions you've asked our Prime Minister was asked yesterday, and he's given the answers to these questions...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0347par0099	I'm curious about your opinion!
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0341par0100	I mean, some of the questions you're talking about. So I don't think it's right to bring them an additional comment, an additional explanation. What's done here is, without touching the core of the system, without breaking the original code of the system, without breaking the principles of the system, is to solve the structure within the state, and the problems with individuals who act from the individual within this structure. It's good to look at it that way. Out of the question...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0348par0103	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0349par0104	Mr. President, according to Article 60, I'd like a word on my position.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0348par0105	Why?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0349par0106	Because this is a loan from the People's Bank -- it's up to this Minister -- 575 million dollars, no guarantees, the money in that house -- as collateral for the property -- and $1 billion,600 million from the People's Bank in 2012 -- that's where the money from the General Manager's house came from. Mr. Recep says this money is not the bank's money.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0348par0107	Okay, in the next chapter, you ask in the form of a question. In the QA, in the next chapter, in the second chapter.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0349par0108	No, I'm not asking questions, I'm making a brief statement.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0348par0109	Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. There are three motions on item one: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the provision of the law under which 546 rows are discussed should be replaced by ▪44,000, which is part of the 1st article in the framework. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Scholar Light Oktay Vural Ali Öz Emin Çınar S. Nevzat Korkmaz Ahmet Duran Bulut Now, since I have two proposals that I'm going to read, I'm going to process them together. I'll make a separate commitment to the motion holders and get them to read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 546 Orders Numbered Law Proposal, dated 18/5/1929, be removed from the first article, which stipulates the regulation of the law on Zabitan and Military Officers No. 1453. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Aydın Ağan Ayyadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Ramazan Kerim Özkan Haydar Akar Tanju Özcan Mustafa Ali Balbay İzzet Cetin Mahmoud Tanal Aytuğ Thrower Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0350par0136	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0348par0137	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0351par0138	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0348par0139	Who will speak on the motions?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0352par0140	Mr. Izzet Cetin.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0348par0141	Mr. Izzet Cetin, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0353par0143	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, I have made a promise on the motion we made in Bill 546. Dear friends, as you know, staff allocations are made by budget law. A month and a half ago, the Budget Law came through, there was no such demand, and now all of a sudden 3,000 senior staff members of the General Command of the Gendarme are being infiltrated. Of course, what need did these 3,000 staffs come from? If you say -- perhaps they didn't fully explain its motive -- as you know, the gendarme schools where the police sergeants were raised last year were closed, and the police sergeants became a void because they were treated as petty officers. Of course, if you were to say, "Where did this gap come from?," perhaps the great history in our country on December 17th changed its place along with many judges and prosecutors, perhaps the world's unprecedented corruption. Of course, the duty of the gendarme experts is by law. At first, they were in charge of traffic, crime scene investigation, smuggling, criminal crimes, law enforcement, intelligence and security services outside the city limits, and they were doing these tasks after they had passed a certain training. Now, by hiring specialists, the duties of the gendarme experts will be performed by more uneducated, less qualified individuals. Why? Because there is no longer confidence in the police, no confidence in the petty officers, no confidence in the military, the Turkish Armed Forces... in the 11-year AKP administration, the Republic of Turkey, as all the republic's institutions have been destroyed, and the Armed Forces have been one of the most ruthless of all. A Chief of Staff and dozens of generals, admirals and colonels, a senior officer, were sentenced to prison under the name Ergenekon trial. At such a time, we will raise the quality of the army, improve its quality, become professionals. You cannot fool anyone. It's just a sudden lack of staff that you bring in to cover up crimes with a less-trained group of police officers, petty officers, and officers because you don't trust them. On this occasion, friends, really, in our country and in the whole world, maybe the military structure is a hierarchy, and since it's in command, the underlying working conditions are bad everywhere, but in our country, it's the worst. Perhaps on this occasion, I'd like to address the concerns of the senior staff in a few words. If you're really going to create a modern army, you can't create a modern army without a trial, with three days, seven days, 14 days by the company commander, 21 days by the brigade commander, 21 days without a trial. The only reason you employ these specialists is because they have mouths, no language. The ones at the bottom are oppressed and oppressed like Isaura the Slave, and you see it as a struggle to get service from there. They have no right to rest for more than 90 days, nor do they have a right to a proper leave. They're about the same status as privates and privates and military students.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0354par0147	Is this the first time it's been taken?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0353par0148	It's not the first time he's been taken, it's your time. It's about 50,000 now, but if this 3,000 staff didn't arrive a month ago, it's because you, the police, and the police, and the petty officers, need experts to do their duty to these privates. What you do in terms of the quality of service is not true, and your speech to create the modern army in Turkey is nothing but a myth, it has no credibility. I assume you're happy to have them door-to-door, waiting at your door for all of you to move to city halls or other public enterprises. What you need to do is stop the resignations of officers, petty officers, and other military personnel who have escaped from the army, the army reliable, the man of its word, and really... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to those who fit your military personality. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit03spe0355par0153	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit04spe0355par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 60th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 546. Commission?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit04spe0356par0004	No, sir, it's been postponed.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit04spe0355par0005	I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit05spe0355par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 60th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It's five past seven, I'm taking a 50-minute break.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit06spe0355par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 60th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Congressmans, we will resume the talks of Law Proposal 546. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Italy with the Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development Agreement Approvement of Co-operation between the Government of Turkey and the European Commission and Foreign Commission Reports. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 385 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I vote that it be passed on to its articles, those who agree... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Italy Approved Agreement to Co-operation in Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development Areas The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Italy between the EPA and the Co-operation Agreement on Sustainable Development Areas was approved on 8 May 2012 in Rome. Anyone want a word on item 1? No. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Anyone want a word on item 2? No. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. (x) 385 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'd like to submit your votes for the open vote with an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit07spe0355par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 60th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough meeting in the open vote of the entire Law Bill 385 rows. Now we're going to repeat the open vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I read the result of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Italy for the ratification of the Co-operation Agreement on Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development Areas: ▪ Number of votes used : 192 [[x]] Muharrem Light Muhammad Bilal Macit Thus, the bill was adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran between the Government of Iran and Foreign Commission Reports from the Environment Commission, Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs, as well as the Charter of the Law drafting Agreement on the Agreement on the Water Basin Amenajman. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 266 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed... Those who don't agree... It's agreed to be passed on. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 266 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. AUDIENCE PRODUCTION OF REPUBLICATION WITH THE REPUBLICITY OF TURKEY COMPLICATION PROGRAMS TO PRODUCTION OF AUTHORITY AND SURVIEW AMENAJMAN The adoption of The Covenant on Natural Resources Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Water Basin Amenajman was approved on September 29, 2010. No one wants to speak on behalf of groups on article 1. İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi will speak on behalf of him. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit07spe0357par0031	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you with respect. Tomorrow is the 47th anniversary of the Confederacy of Turkish Revolutionary Workers' Unions, which I belong to. DİSK has been a trade union organisation for 47 years and has been marked by Turkey's union movement. From the day it was founded, it has experienced a trade union struggle in this country independent of the state, independent of capital, independent of political parties. Turkey has continued its fight on negatives. Except, in the classical sense, he didn't trade unionize. Turkey's problems, labour, democracy, freedoms, all of its problems are on Turkey's agenda. It's an organization that pays very dearly for it, DİSK. For this reason, President Kemal lost his Turks and was slaughtered. In this struggle, Kenan Budak was massacred prior to the 1980 coup; in this fight, I remember our former DİSK President Abdullah Basturk, our former DİSK President Kemal Nebioğlu, and now their names here, one by one, in the struggle for freedom, democracy, and I once again bow down before their struggle. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, the fundamental problem we face in this struggle today, dear friends, is that if there was an organized society, if there was a Turkey, an organizational society, the DİSK would actually reach an organized structure today, the union movement would reach an organised structure, the Turkish-ist would reach it, the HAK-IST would reach it... If other trade unions in the public had a free union struggle independent of state, capital and political parties, we wouldn't have a lot of problems right now that are occupying our agenda. What have we fought against in the past? Today, of course, we fought against the DGM for independent courts, so we were tried. We were tried for resisting June 15th, 16th. We've been tried in this country for defending the economic interests of workers and striking for them, and we've been suspended from union life for 12 years. And maybe one of the world's largest union cases is one of the DİSK cases in Turkey, where he has 1,477 defendants, a trial that lasts 12 years, and a ordeal. Who was it fought for? This country's truly independence, democracy, human rights, and an organization that fights the victims of this country, DİSK. The heart wants all organisations to be crowned like this to be active in a process where Turkey's agenda is set. Today, dear friends... I won't go too far, I won't go too far into details like this, and I won't say too many annoying things at this hour, but I'd like to say while our Minister of Labor is here. At the moment, the resistance of Izmir Gediz EDAŞ continues. Today, for a hundred and ninety-seven days in Punto, the skin workers have continued to resist and 79 workers have been fired because they are members of the trade union. Today, the Sandport dock workers -- this is a union with the HAK-İSK -- the workers are in resistance there. Today, workers at the Greif sack factory were fired because they were unionists. WORKers who failed to receive their three-month salary at the FENIH Aluminum Factory began 420 workers with resistance. Since workers are organized in Pakmaya, they have been active there since 2012, because of the organisation of the TEKGIDA-İSK Union. And finally, the workers who are in bed are in resistance because they oppose privatisation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, really, so did our Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2014-02-12sit07spe0358par0039	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit07spe0357par0040	I'm finishing with a sentence, Mr. President. I wish these shifts were for subcontractors in this country, if these work today were for 4/C workers, if only they were for pensioners, if only it were for pensioners, if only it were for the real victims of this country.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit07spe0358par0042	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi, please, will you make up your mind?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit07spe0357par0043	I respectfully congratulate DİSK's anniversary from here once again.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit07spe0359par0044	We're celebrating, Mr. President, and so are we.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit07spe0357par0045	I bow before those we have lost for this cause. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit07spe0360par0048	I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 1 is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. No one wants a word on the 2nd article. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. No one wants to speak on the third article. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Mr. Akar, you're in the system. Do you have a request?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit07spe0361par0058	I have a short word request.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit07spe0360par0059	About what?
tbmm-2014-02-12sit07spe0361par0060	I'd like to make a statement to our Minister of Customs.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit07spe0360par0061	All right, I'll give you a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit07spe0361par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to submit a request to our Minister of Customs and Trade, not a question. I just got a call from a Turkish businessman from Romania asking when the problem with Bulgaria will be resolved for 15 days. He says that they are in a very difficult situation, that business activities are coming to a standstill. If you could fill us in on this... Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-12sit07spe0362par0069	Thank you. [[Continue]] The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I declare the conclusion of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on Natural Resources and Water Basin Amenajman on the Approvement of Covenant. ▪ Number of votes used: 204 [[x]] Muharrem Light Muhammad Bilal Macit Therefore, the bill has been adopted and legalized. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Government of the Russian Federation of Culture Centres in accordance with the Constitutional Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 459 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. With the government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of Russia, the establishment of and the establishment of its institutions and the establishment of its activities will continue to ensure that the establishment of the establishment and the establishment of the establishment of the government of the Russian government will be established. MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 3 December 2012 in İstanbul by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Russian Federation. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] (x) 459 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. The conclusion of the open vote of the Dair Legislature, between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Russian Federation, is that it is proper to ratify the Foundation and Actions of Cultural Centres. ▪ Number of votes used: 204 [[x]] Muharrem Light Muhammad Bilal Macit The bill has been adopted and legalized. Congressmans, today's agenda is complete. On Thursday (February 13th 2014) to discuss other tasks from the commissions with the draft and proposals, I close the merger to meet at 2:00 p.m. according to the decision taken. I bid you good night.
