tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 124th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm gonna do an electronic check-up. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Diyarbakır MP Deliberate Friday, who wants to talk about the human drama in Gaza. Here you go, Mr. Heartfelt.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today is the blessed night of Kadir. I hereby celebrate the blessed Night of Kadir, of all the worlds of Islam, wishing that this day would bring about the resurrection of Muslims, I would like to draw all our attention to Palestine, our bleeding wound. The oppressed children, the oppressed people, have a God because of the persecution of terrorist Israel, while humanity's conscience continues to die. You, Palestine, are the Masjid-i Aksa, you are the Mirach, you are the Dome-us-Sahra. You are Solomon the Lord, Zechariah the Holy One, Abubekir the Holy One, Omar the Holy One. You're our first dome. You, Palestine, are the one who brought the Prophet to you, the one who brought him to you, the one who made him meet God. You are Salahaddin, who is the fearful dream of the Crusades, of the Crusades, and whose peace is not in blood, but in power, in invitation, in love, in history. You are the legacy of Sultan Salahaddin-i Kurdistan. You're the II. In the name of Abdulhamit, you are the land of the whole nation. You are the honor, honor and dignity of the nation. Don't be shy, we'll be ashamed; don't bow your head, we'll bow our heads. The dignity of the nation, the honor of this land, is now underfoot by the Zionist, bandit, terrorist Israel. Honor, dignity and humanity are dying in the hands of these Zionists. The 8 million-dollar terrorist Israel, 1.5 billion-dollar Islamic worlds and states waiting for Israel's ebabil birds, will throw the stones at Muslims, not at you when the birds arrive. Some Arab states, thanks to their oil, have taken their dignity and condoned massacres. Shame on the people who kiss their children every morning and go out and keep quiet! Shame on those who, at the age of seven, saw the Palestinian boys, and watched, and remained silent, who bravely defied the lionist soldiers with their hands marked victory! Those who are still waiting for trees and stones to speak for the Zionists, shame on you! As innocent children have been slaughtered in Palestine for sixty-six years, shame on the traitors among us, who have tried to collect political rants and co-operated with us through lies and slanders and slanders. Shame on you, cowards and scoundrels who still can't call Israel terrorists. Those who remain silent, those who live as so-called teachers, those who sit on the laps of masters in Pennsylvania, those who are traitors; those who are roosters for Muslims, the Zionist, the terrorist scoundrels, are very good at being sheep when it comes to Israel, aren't they? If you have any honor, dignity, honor, honor, do a curse on the terrorist Israel and let us see that Israel is a terrorist state. Let us see it. Say it! You can't, you can't, your masters won't make you say it. The Zionists and the Crusaders have missed Salahaddin-i Eyyubî, Fatih Sultan Mehmet. Sultan Süleyman. But don't worry, we are the grandsons of our grandfathers. If necessary, we will be a martyr and be resurrected hundreds of thousands of times, and we will come back and stand over you again. My belief is that if 1.5 billion Muslims spit at the same time, we'll drown these simultaneous bastards with our saliva. Israel is the enemy of peace and mankind. He slaughters their children so that Israel doesn't grow up, their mothers, and their fathers, so that they don't resist. After all, I'm a father, believe me when I look at my three daughters, I'm ashamed of my humanity. On the Blue Marmara ship, my 25-year-old best friend Ali Haydar Bengi was murdered and martyred by terrorist Israel. That's why even Zionist and terrorist Israel is a mortal enemy to me and my people. Therefore, I dedicate my speech to the memory of this beautiful martyr, and I invite your grand delegation to join us in the name of the Palestinian martyrs and all our martyrs: El Fatiha. (x)
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0003par0029	Thank you, Mr. Heartfelt. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mardin MP Erol Dora (Second) who wants to talk about power cuts in Midyat district. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0004par0033	Mr. President, I have received a pledge to conduct a non-responsive speech on the power cuts in Midyat district of Mardin. I salute the General Assembly. Midyat, which has a history of thousands of years, has been the oldest settlement in the world, the upper Mesopotamian region, and has been the dominant of many civilizations throughout history, such as Sumerians, Assyrians, Urartus, Macedonians, Persians, and Romans. In Midyat, where the languages are spoken in Kurdish, Syrian, Turkish and Arabic, the Suryans, Kurds, Turks, and Mahalmis are living in Muslim, Christianity, and persecution. In addition to these unique features, Midyat also has an important position with crafts, stone management, historical church, monasteries, houses, cultural structures and geographical landscapes, a general expression of cultural and natural heritage. With such an enormous historical and cultural heritage, this city has become one of the region's most important tourist destinations, especially with interest from local and foreign tourists over the past decade. In recent years, there have been positive studies for the development of the city, but they are inadequate. For years, problems in education, health care, transport, infrastructure, water, electricity and distorted urbanization in the district have not been resolved. Dear MPs, Diyarbakır, Batman, Şanlıurfa, Mardin, Siirt and Şırnak, we tried to express from this bench the loss of our farmers there about a month and a half ago, due to the unfair debt of the Tigri Electric Distribution Company, called DEDAŞ, which distributes electricity in our provinces. In recent weeks, electricity and water shortages in Midyat have been common to the press, and these problems have been widely transmitted to us by our citizens. Electricity blackouts that often occur in Midyat, and especially in many villages and towns in Midyat, in the region where the temperature reached 45 degrees in the summer months have brought our citizens to the point of rebellion. Last week, these power cuts were protested by the public in Midyat. Dear lawmakers, our citizens, who live in many villages and towns in both the district and Midyat, are suffering major losses from power cuts. Our people who live in villages are victimized in many ways, both in agriculture and in everyday life, due to blackouts. The tradesmen are unable to do any work due to power cuts, and the type of white goods that a citizen has to use in his home are malfunctioning due to power cuts, food stored in the freezer is corrupted and thrown away. Dear lawmakers complain that their crops are dried due to power shortages, because they are often irrigated by electrical irrigation systems on agricultural land. Many of the fields have been damaged due to water shortages due to power shortages. Electricity blackouts have become natural, especially in the seasons, in the winds, and in the winter months. It is also known that hundreds of villages were not powered in the region during winter. Dear lawmakers, one of the main reasons for power cuts is that there is no necessary infrastructure and lack of qualified personnel. The power lines across the region are thirty-forty years old, which serve with maintenance and repair. The lack of additional transformers for lower transformers and new settlements reduces the quality of electricity and cuts increase. Today, electricity has become an integral part of human life. On the other hand, it is the state's top priority to take every precaution for citizens to continue their daily lives. The state must quickly resolve the problems of a citizen in the face of power shortages. Once again, I must point out that we are going to be followers of this matter. We will be with our people in any legitimate, legal and democratic initiative that our people will develop until this problem is resolved, and I call on the Minister of Energy once again. I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0005par0043	Thank you, Mr. Dora. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Artvin-Damar MP Uğur Bayraktutan, who asked for a comment on the problems in Artvin-Damar. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0006par0048	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the problems of Artvin-Damar, not to mention because it is a village anymore. I salute your high council. According to the 2011 census of Law 6360, according to the address based on the population below 2,000, unfortunately Damar was converted into a village beyond being in the city. Again, the municipalities in the districts of Kılıçkaya and Squaretuk were shut down, along with Damar. As a result of the fall of 2,000 people, Damar, who had about 5,000 to 5,500 populations when compared with the number of years before, unfortunately, has fallen below 1,500, especially since the mining activity there, because of the work there, because of the village's status. There are some problems in the vein. And last week, I visited Damar village. Dear friends, at the beginning of my words, I honor the legendary Mayor of Damar. For more than 25 years, I am congratulating our mayor, the pioneer of social democratic municipalism, who is truly the legendary mayor of Damar. Dear lawmakers, there are 10km of road between Damar and Murgul -- there is another problem in fact, the main problem, but in the meantime, I'd like to bring up problems related to Damar. This road, unfortunately, has been being done for more than ten years. In the last week, I went down that road to Murgul. There are serious problems on that road, problems with asphalt, road collapses, serious problems with vehicles coming and going, and I want to draw your attention to those problems. Although there was a health clinic here earlier, when there were mines running there, there were two doctors with workers, there were more than one hundred nurses, and there were medical experts, today, although there were a population approaching 1,500 in Damar. Unfortunately, the valued lawmakers, we put aside the doctor, and there are no paramedics. There is also a serious problem with the vein. This needs to be taken care of, too. Other than that, one of the most important problems is that even though my dear friends have taken over the city's private administration in Damar (Damar) after the municipality has been shut down, although they have made promises, we will take the garbage here, we will repair the water defects. Despite their commitments, we will hire workers here, we will take care of all these garbage problems. Despite the fact that they have been living in Damar for nearly four months, they have been living in Damar, making illegal transactions, without any insurance links, and workers who have been working without insurance. And here's my valued congressman watching me, and I want him to be sensitive, and we want to keep an eye on it. For what? Look, in the streets of Damar, garbage cans are scattered all over the place, it's dealing with germs, it's veiny, it's dealing with stench. Over the past week, after a week passed, the vehicles from Murgul City took the garbage from Damar, but this is a palliative solution, a temporary solution. In order to take care of it at the heart of it, the five minimum workers under the service of the Artvin County Special Administration... the trucks of the I.V. City of Damar stand there under insurance -- the garbage trucks -- can take care of this garbage problem by starting workers on their heads, dear friends. Look, I've just said, go where 1,500 people have lived, see at this time -- trash cans hanging out of dumpsters, photos of them, just in case there's any problem. Other than that, there are serious problems with the waters, they say: "Our waters are not flowing." Sadly, there are serious problems with the waters, my dear friends. Now, he's got a doctor's problem, he's got a health problem, he's got a water problem, there's a worse problem than that: go see Murgul Damar. Damar -- before -- is literally one of the most important places where Turkey's copper mine was run. What's the word on the meat copper that he put his hand up there, and there's a big hole in the middle of the mine, my dear friends? So there are collapses on the ground, collapses in the buildings, collapses in the land, and on the other hand -- we can't explain the environmental impacts -- there's a lake right above it, they took water from that lake, they destroyed Damar in a sense. My dear friends, we don't accept any understanding of depriving this place of service by turning it into village status. This conversation has only one purpose. We know about other problems, we know about the doctor, we know about the road, we know about transportation problems, but we're putting aside the government's closure of the municipality in Damar, that's a separate assessment, but seriously, what good reason could there be for not taking the garbage? Can you imagine, in a place where 1,500 people have lived, garbage is on the road on the main streets, on the streets, everywhere? And the goal here is that they torture Damar in a sense, and they say -- they're trying to solve this solution by linking it to the Murgul municipality on the other side of the 10km. But those of us who meet Damarli are being very sensitive about it. No, they say we don't accept this kind of imposition. My dear friends. Therefore, officials in charge of the province's Special Administration say that the governorship and the government must immediately take at least five more people out of service and instruct them to deal with this problem in Damar. In this way, I offer the problems of Damar. I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0007par0060	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a brief promise to the lawmakers who have entered the system. First, I'll start with the Deputy Director of the Group who entered the system. Mr. Hamzacebi, come in.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0008par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today is the day of the blessed Night of Kadir. On such a holy, blessed night, I wish all our citizens, the Islamic world, to be at peace. I wish for an end to the attack on Palestine. I salute our Palestinian brothers here with respect and love. I wish such a blessed night would bring peace and peace to mankind, our country and our region. Dear lawmakers, an operation was launched yesterday regarding a number of police personnel. A number of police and police officers were detained in an operation launched at dawn. This is considered to be a retaliation for the 17 December operation of the investigation launched against 4 ministers due to December 17th. If we have expressed today how the unlawful practice, the trial, the investigation, the prosecution, the prosecution, is political, as we have expressed seven years ago with the Ergenekon, continuing with the sledgehammer and many other illegal cases against soldiers, intellectuals, journalists, journalists, and anyone who has spoken. Only the subject has changed; then there were soldiers and intellectuals in the target, and now there are police in the target, but one thing that doesn't matter: two investigations and prosecutions are behind Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The same way we opposed that illegality that day, the same way we oppose it today, we will continue to oppose it, I condemn these illegal operations from here.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0009par0068	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0010par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, wish that the Presidential Court, my fellow MPs, the Parliamentary staff, the people watching us on the screens, the blessed nights of Kadir of the Islamic world, congratulations, and especially tonight, will bring the blood that flows in the Islamic geography to a standstill. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0011par0074	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0012par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. After the Metropolitan Act came into effect, after the elections, unfortunately our concerns began to take place. The mayors of the capital city, who are from the AKP, have begun to act on their separatist and separatist stances concerning municipalities that have been passed on to them from the municipalities of the district. Here, villages have lost, there is no service for those who vote for CHP or vote for opposition parties. Here, consequently, seven of our brothers and sisters in the fire department of Bandirma City have been laid off from their jobs, and they are now replaced by AKP people who are close to the AKP; they are no longer getting the fire roads wet, they are not washing the market, they are not watering the city tankers. Think about it, he runs the fire department at the Metropolitan Mayor's Bandirma City Hall, but he doesn't get wet on the roads. Could such an attitude, such a sense of government, such a sense of public service? Mr. Secretary, I'm warning you from here:
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0013par0082	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0014par0085	Mr. President, despite the fact that we have workers who claim to bring forward democracy to Turkey with the referendum held on September 12, 2010, the AKP government has declared that they can become members of two unions, but have been worse than the coup on September 12, 1980. The busy working city, Alepeli, faces the slaughter of a worker every day, and the slaughter of this worker is almost normal now. Because of organizational work, workers are being slaughtered daily at the University of Marseilles, Pakmaya, Yıldız Sunta and other organisations. I call upon the government here to take the necessary measures to end the slaughter of workers.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0013par0086	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0015par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, 100 per cent of the olive groves have been damaged due to heavy rain and hail in the Bursa Gemlik Gençali neighborhood. In addition, these citizens express that they often make small olives and suffer because they can't get the olive groves watered by their petitions. They say they need a irrigation pool and they haven't been made for years and they need drinking water immediately. And through you, I'm announcing it to the esteemed ministers from here. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0016par0092	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0017par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. Gökçeada district Kuzlimanmanı is transferred to Turkey's Maritime Authority under the decree of the Special Administration, but the private company, which wants to build a bilge storage facility, has made necessary applications and received permissions while in the Special Administration. At the time, he agreed with the company in exchange for a profit-sharing partnership with the AKP-based municipal Synthetic storage facility. Will it be allowed to build a storage facility that will affect the entire island's natural structure, tourism, agriculture in a negative way, and that will seriously contaminate the environment that the entire public opposes? Are you aware that if allowed, you will sign the death warrant for Gökceada? Do you take responsibility for it, for it, for its sin? Do you want future generations to remember you as the Minister of Transport, who allowed the slaughter of Gökceada? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0018par0098	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0019par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. A speaker from the AKP has just stated that we do not condemn the massacre in Palestine -- the Republican People's Party or the other opposition. We condemn and condemn Israel's massacre in Palestine. Once again, we condemn and condemn the massacre of Palestinians. However, you say to those who shed blood in northern Iraq, you still don't recognize them as terrorists, we want to point out that. Secondly, I also condemn AKP's partisan attitudes in major cities once again. Because the Republican People's Party does all sorts of blocking and services to municipalities...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0020par0104	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0021par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the Night of Kadir of Islam, and I wish it to be a blessing. For six days, our disabled brothers and sisters have been on hunger strike because there have been no public hiring of 25,000 open staff. Today is the sixth day of the hunger strike. We demand the appointment of 25,000 public-impaired open staffs to address the victims of our disabled citizens. I mean, today, tonight is Kadir Night. Because of this Kadir Night, our disabled citizens are waiting for the Ministry to make a statement about this to end the hunger strike, waiting for it to appoint a staff. I wish it would be the cause, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0022par0110	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0023par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. And I pray that the Night of Kadir shall bring blessings to all the worlds of Islam, and that the blood that floweth in the face of the holy moon shall stop at once in the land of Islam. In particular, because of the civil war in Syria, nearly 1.5 million Syrian citizens came to our country. Most of them live in tents in Adana. Now, the government boasts that they've embraced them, and it's true that they've done so, but today we're looking at about 900,000 of these citizens on the streets, on the corners, now on the way in traffic and in Adana, and in some negative jobs, they're going to fall into the hands of the teams. I think what it means to have them and to have them taken in order would be useful to our people in terms of social peace.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0024par0116	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Finally, Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0025par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, due to the wrong Syrian policy followed by the government, the border has been turned over, past our southern border has been unaccounted for, and in this way, some 1,500,000 Syrian citizens have arrived to Turkey. About 500,000 Syrians live in Gaziantep, with 200,000 registered. This has gone beyond the limits of Gaziantep. Therefore, camps must be built quickly to prevent the unrest of the Gazianteps and to provide human life to the coming Syrians, and the Syrians, who are not even at the moment, should be transferred there -- for the peace of the country. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0026par0122	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to prevent individual arms and to determine the measures to end the deaths and injuries caused by the use of a firearm or other weapon without a license, we propose the opening of a parliamentary investigation under Articles 98, 104, and 105 of the Constitution, according to Articles 104, and 105. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Mwah.]] [[Pain]] [[Şırnak]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Bingöl]] [[Adana]] 13) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] 17) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Van]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] According to Hope Foundation data, there are 8 million individual weapons in Turkey. 65% of these weapons are firearms. Again, the number of registered weapons registered in Turkey is 1,72,37, according to TİK (Turkey Statistical Institution) data. Looking at these figures, 7 million unlicensed weapons have been found in Turkey. In the same way, data show that if he demands 40 million people in Turkey, he will be able to have weapons. According to some newspapers, there have been 10 times the increase in individual firearms over the past ten years. One in about 40 people claim to have been found with a licensed weapon. Half the licenses are for use and half for possession. The result of these figures is terrifying. According to TÜİK data, 700 people in Turkey are shot to death every year in the workplace. Weapons are used in almost every fight in Turkey. Women are killed in the street with various weapons, most of which are firearms. Daughters are found in their homes shot with shotguns. The number of people who shot his wife or daughter with a gun is extremely high, but are usually registered as a gun-cleaning accident, including a registered or unlicensed weapon. People who keep guns in their homes can sometimes go crazy and send bullets to all individuals. Again, the tradition of celebrating at weddings, celebrations, game wins with firearms, shooting at random air and everywhere, never getting dumped, and such behaviors are not officially seen as serious interference. As the ability to acquire weapons becomes easier, such events become more common. The problem is extremely flammable. People are threatened even in their homes. At first, most of the citizens, including children and women, face death on the balcony of their homes, in parks, in the streets. Children aren't even safe in their mother's arms. Hundreds of deaths and injuries, such as the death of Hope Ceylan, a 6-year-old who was shot in Izmir, who died from a gunshot wound to his mother's head in Urbana, stem from the easy gain of weapons as a normal consumer goods in Turkey. The problem is far too vital to be solved by explanations, punishments, and temporary measures. Because we don't have safety anymore. A serious inspection must be done. The terms of licensed weapons use must be made difficult and the duration of possession must be shortened considerably. For the collection of all weapons licensed or unlicensed, an immediate study must be launched, a review of the law. It requires a serious investigation of what weapons are intended for. The fact that individual arms have been made so easy is clearly a profit for those who produce weapons and sell them. With about 8 million individual licensed and unlicensed weapons in the middle, no one can say there's safety. In view of all of this, we'd like to submit a parliamentary investigation to the discretion of the General Assembly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is said by the government that 13 cities will be capital cities and that Manisa will be among them. However, since there are no proposals or proposals for the presidency of the TBMM, this has gone beyond speculation. The rumor that Manisa is a capital city has been welcomed by our citizens, but has caused questions in the minds of citizens in our remote counties. One of the things we're talking about is that Manisa is going to be a city. The territory of the province of Manisa will be the borders of the city's municipality. In this case, the 68 districts in Manisa will be closed down and the entire village will be closed down and converted to the neighborhood. According to Metropolitan City Law No. 5216, only the provinces of Istanbul (5,712 square km) and the provinces of Kopeeli (3,505 km square km) are defined as the cities of the city. The administrative borders of two provinces are not more than 100km away. . The facial measurement of our Manisa province is 13.228 square kilometers. Manisa County is located at the far west of the administrative borders. Therefore, the distance to the eastern border of the province is more than 200km. It's 150 kilometers to the southern border again. It raises concerns that there is no written bill and that there is only information from what is said. The mayors are troubled by the word that all city municipalities in Manisa will be shut down. This anxiety reflects negatively on the services of the presidents. The situation of those who work in these municipalities is still unclear. In the name of localization, it is a contradiction that authority and responsibilities will be collected in one centre. It is expressed by all Manisa citizens that closing the municipalities in the region is not the right approach. In order to ensure that Manisa's large-city law is in the best interest of Manisa, the closing of the city municipalities, the district municipalities, the village and the neighborhood muhtars and municipal employees will not be harmed, and the methods for better services of citizens from municipal services are determined, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened by Articles 104, 105 and 105 of the Constitutional Court of Turkey shall be conducted. [[Manisa]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 5) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 10) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 14) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0027par0231	Mr. President, a parliamentary research motion that has just been read suggests that a parliamentary investigation into the issues of Manisa, which are going to happen in the event that Manisa is a city municipality. So, before Manisa became a major city, this motion was made, but our Parliamentary presidency was able to bring it to Parliament five months after Manisa became a major city, five months after the local election was made. I congratulate the Speakership on this attitude. [Cheers and applause from CHP rows!] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Animalism is one of the highest-value sectors in agricultural activities and is the livelihood of many of our people. He has years of delayed problems, especially structural problems. As a result of policies that have been followed over the past years, the animal industry has come to an end. The repeated problems of the livestock industry everywhere can be considered low productivity, disease, informality, food, food, and dairy livestock. In the past ten to fifteen years, animal products have become imported, with a significant pause in agriculture and livestock. As the population grew, the animal population was reduced to the same amount and the rehabilitation efforts were insufficient. At the same time, there should be progress in combating animal disease, while various diseases have caused significant losses. Because of imports, unseen diseases in our country have been a threat to animalism. The country's animal import of living animals, which aims to improve its livestock and market values, has not achieved its goal for a long time, despite the fact that the import of living animals, which aims to regulate and satisfy the need for meat. Due to the fact that outside animals are carrying different infection factors that have not been seen or found in our country and because of the inadequacies in adapting to the country's conditions, they have caused losses to growers and damage to the country's economy. Due to the lack of incentives for livestock during the ten-year AKP period, our farmers have stopped farming and have been sentenced to migrate from village to town and live in slums in unemployment and poverty. Especially in recent months, droughts and hay are so expensive that our producers are in great distress. For this reason, our producers are selling their five-year-old government-free loans for half the price, while failing to pay off their loans, they are dying. For reasons mentioned above, I respectfully present the opening of Parliamental research on the grounds of the development of animalism in our country and the determination of the producers' problems and solutions, the decline in the number of animals and the rise in the price of meat in recent years, according to Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Charter. 26/07/2012 [[Ardahan]] 2) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Gaziantep]] 4) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] 6) Cervix of Love [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 10) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Hatay]] [[Çanakkale]] 13) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 14) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0028par0281	It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The National Party of Action Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Wednesday 23/07/2014 (today), I would like to propose the following proposal of our group to be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On 16 May 2013, it was suggested that our parliamentary research motion to investigate the existing issues of our citizens, including the issues of private security officer Mehmet Erdogan and his friends, with 13084 points, be read in the General Assembly on Wednesday 23/07/2014 (now). In favour of the proposal, Müğla MP Mehmet Erdogan. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0029par0299	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal. I hereby salute your high council. I'd like to begin by praying that the blessed Night of Kadir, which is better than a thousand months, brings blessings to the entire Islamic world, especially Gaza, Turkmeneli and East Turkistan, to bring peace to all the persecuted Islamic worlds from God. I also condemn those who supported Israel, as if nothing had happened, as if they had supported the genocide that took place in Gaza before the eyes of the whole world. I also ask God's mercy to all of our Muslim relatives who died in the massacre of ISIS that continued in Turkmeneli. I also condemn those who ignore what happened in Turkmeneli. By the way, the former Iraqi Turkmen's Front, who died two days ago and will be buried in the Catacombs today, I ask Allah's mercy on the late Sadun Bridgelý and his relatives. Dear MPs, human beings have had three basic needs since the day they were created - eating, drinking, housing, and security. Security, one of the most basic needs of humans, is constantly changing depending on the ground, time, and circumstances. Today's growing need for security has led to the birth of the private security sector, and this sector has given job prospects for the unemployed and a huge employment area for the employer. So this big sector brought together a very large Rant field. The desire and legal inadequacies of employers to make it cheaper are causing our private security guards to become victims. In addition, most of the employees in this sector are subcontractors. We've had criticisms, suggestions, and suggestions about the problem of our citizens working on this status. Dear lawmakers, according to information available, the number of companies allowed for private security activities in our country has reached 1,330. The number of private security training institutions has increased by 725, and the number of businesses with special security clearances to ensure their own safety has increased by over 51,000. I'd like to point out that the total number of security personnel who have received the certificate has exceeded 77,000. The number of private security officers with IDs is 470,000. The number of people still working as private security personnel has started rapidly approaching the number of police officers the police have run, reaching 180,000. Again, according to police headquarters records, the number of people taking tests to become private security officers has exceeded 1m150,000, according to the latest available data, and the number of people who have succeeded in these tests has exceeded 780,000. As you can see, this sector is now very big, and its problems continue to grow with it. The goal of this research motion is to ensure that these problems are resolved quickly before new social explosions occur, before they become impossible for Parliament to make amends. Just when we've discussed the Labour Law and the Labour and Social Security Minister's system is spreading, it's important to get it together as soon as he says so. It is important to know that a very important sector such as security cannot be transferred to the subcontractor system. Also, as we say upstairs, thousands of private security employees should be left at the mercy of subcontractors. Of course, we all know how big the current problems of our citizens, who work in this industry, who make their living out of this industry, are. The demands of subcontractors employed as private security include permits, fees, severance pay and unionisation. So the growing problems with the growth of this sector are not clear why today's problems are expected to be solved when the day passes and the problems are open to irreparable problems. Many private security guards are also suffering from injustices in the matter of wages. For example, a private security officer who works at a public hospital receives different salaries from someone who works at the Social Security Agency, who also works at airports. So when the nature of the work is the same, the staff of each institution receives separate salaries, but in the end, most of its salary is minimum wage and is very close to minimum wage. Besides, these citizens get the same salary for life, which is usually a minimum wage. And when he has to quit his job without getting his pension, they're in the middle of it, so to speak. Many businesses don't want to hire private security personnel over a certain age. In fact, some businesses place provisions on conditions where staff can't be employed over certain age, which are considered to be over 35 to 40 years old. All right, so what are private security guards after 40 who aren't allowed to do their job after doing it for years? However, jobs can be created that can benefit from their experience. Private security personnel with no job guarantees in any way should not be ignored that our citizens must pay bonuses by the age of 40 until they are 65 in order to retire. Also, I'd like to point out that security doesn't just come with physical power. In this regard, the professional experience of employees must also be taken advantage of. People who are out of work, desperate, armed education, who are over a certain age, must be prevented from being abused tomorrow by people who are malicious, and must be taken care of now. Private security personnel are another problem of our citizens. So our citizens don't have hours, they don't charge overtime, they don't get weekend vacations, they don't have holiday holidays, they don't have job security. Another problem with private security guards, which are made to play for the employer, is that they run for the season. Dear lawmakers, perhaps one of the most important problems in this sector today is the AVM, which is capable of hosting thousands of people. These malls, visited by thousands of our citizens every day, have a weakness for security, as they focus solely on customer satisfaction. When a negative happens in those malls today, God forbid, those private security guards will be responsible. But they also lose their jobs when they do their jobs because the mall managers accuse them of disturbing customers when they do their jobs. As I mentioned earlier, we have a citizen certified as a private security guard who's over a million. It's a great danger to leave such a large sector on its own. How much longer will the good will of private security employees, who have no union rights, no social security, so that the employer has to do what the employer says, no job, no job, no job, no standard fee, be abused, how long will these problems be left unresolved, and how long will they be ignored? It is now clear that private security today should be prevented from becoming a cheap sense of security. Both these people and their human income and social security must be provided at once. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in the meantime, we need to remember our officers as we discuss the problems of the security workers. On this occasion, I would like to say that the government has not kept any promises to the police. For years, the government has not solved the police pension problem, nor has it solved the overtime problem, nor has it arranged the hours of police work. It must not be forgotten that the solution to the problems of our police and private security personnel means that the people who keep the peace of the nation will also be at peace. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the nature of our motion is quite clear. Let us all begin the work needed to solve the problems of these brothers and sisters. On this blessed day, private security guard, let's work together to solve the problems of our citizens, let's work together, and let's work together to address these problems of theirs that are waiting to be solved. With this feeling and thought, I look forward to your support for our proposal, to congratulate you all again on the blessed night of Kadir, the blessed night of the great Turkish nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0030par0321	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Against him, Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Kavalıoğlu.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0031par0325	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath against the Council's motion to open a parliamentary investigation into the High Assembly in order to determine the current issues of the National Movement Party Group, private security officers, and to address these issues, and to investigate the measures that must be taken, including the legal arrangements to be taken. I salute you all. First of all, I want to say that today is the most important day of the Islamic world, the Night of Kadir. Tonight, I regret to say, in Gaza, in Northern Iraq, in a nutshell, we enter the entire Islamic world with sadness. It is our prayer and our writing that this night may lead to the salvation of all the oppressed, the victims, the innocent. Congratulations to all our citizens and all the world of Islam on the Night of Kadir. Dear lawmakers, private security is a sector that employs a large number of people in our country and is constantly developing. In 2004, Special Security Services No. 5188 was issued to ensure that the legal framework of private security will be provided with special security services that will ensure the completion of public security. A hundred hours without weapons, a hundred and twenty hours of training, and those who have succeeded in their basic training exam enter the industry as employees with their security certificate. According to Security Directorate records, the number of companies allowed for private security activities in our country is 1,320, while the number of private security training agencies is 529, and the number of private security permits is 66,184, while the number of employees receiving special security IDs is 660,897. The current number of private security guards is 220,522. Again, according to police headquarters records, the number of people entering the examination as private security guards is 1,524,425. The number of people who have succeeded in the examination is 970,212. There are also 300 active area monitoring centres. As you can see, the private security sector is a major and continuous development sector that employs 220,000 people. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the salaries of private security officers are determined according to the terms of the free market between private security companies and the person receiving protection and security services. Dear lawmakers, the working hours, permits, fees and other rights of private security officers are organised and audited within the framework of Business Act 4857. The improvement of private security services in terms of occupational health and safety has been secured under the Law on Occupational Health and Safety 6331. The draft for amendments to Law 5188 was also made in Article 19 and 20, to protect and improve private security officers' rights. Our government has a sensitive approach to the problems of the private security sector and private security agencies, as well as all our country's problems. We are aware of some of the problems of our fellow security guards, our brothers and sisters, of course we care about their rights, health problems, education, working conditions, and other problems. A variety of studies are being conducted on these issues. A project project is under way that envisions the restructuring of private security training in accordance with today's conditions. The Special Security Education Development Project is primarily intended to examine the existing private security educational system in Turkey using scientific research methods, expose the problems in practice and theory, and identify the most appropriate ways to address these problems. Dear friends, as part of this project, the structural situation of the private security educational system, syllabus, materials, educational standards and educational environments will be studied in detail and problems in implementation will be detected and legal and structural solution proposals will be developed. At the end of the project, the private education system will be restored to an ideal and modern structure, and as a result, the personnel who run private security services in the country will be able to contribute to Turkey's democratic development process with professional security personnel equipment. Our government continues its work on developing private security guards and security services. Finally, a study is under way for the creation of a new structure that will serve as a guard within the safety services class. With the legalisation of the work, 10,000 guards are expected to be taken in the first place. They will be responsible for protecting individuals, institutions, sensitive areas, missions and so on after four months of theoretical and two months of practical training. Mr. President, I am confident that all of the problems of our private security officers, who have been proposed and are not counted, will be resolved by our government. The National Movement Party Group says I am unable to participate in the parliamentary research motion for our country and the intensive agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, including the detection of the existing issues of our private security officer citizens and the investigation of the measures which must be taken, including the legal arrangements to be taken, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0032par0335	Thank you, Mr. Kavalıoğlu. In his favor, Bolu MP Tanju Özcan. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0033par0339	Mr. President, before I begin my words -- malum, blessed Night of Kadir -- I celebrate the night of Kadir of the entire Turkish and Islamic world, I hope it will be a night of forgiveness for our sins. Congressmans, I have made a pledge in favor of the mp group proposal. It's a really important group proposal for the establishment of a research commission. In fact, we've repeatedly discussed the problems of private security officers working in public or private sectors in research proposals on subcontractors in general. We find that the problems of private security officers who work in the public area are not so easy to separate from other public workers who work in subcontractors, but these private security guards, especially public contractors, have more challenges and challenges than other subcontractors. Now, in Turkey -- the numbers in the group proposal are not up to date, but a group proposal in 2013 -- about 800,000 people have received special security documents as of today. Congressmans, you know these things, many of them are knocking on your door. Some of them are unemployed and can't get a job. You look at people who have jobs in the public, they're not evaluated by merit, and whoever has uncles, whoever has a more important relative of the AKP, the priority is given to our friends in the public. So we also regret to see that there have been problems with private security personnel at some public institutions, as the purchases were made without merit. Of course, we also see that there are serious problems with the training of these private security personnel. Let's go look into it, in public institutions, universities, health department institutions, national education, no matter where you say, a private security guard doesn't know what their rights and powers are. He doesn't know, it's not a shame. I mean, if he interferes with any petty crime, he won't, he won't. He doesn't even know what it's gonna be like. Our friends don't know if he's out of jurisdiction, where his authority begins and ends. That's why our friends' education needs to be reconsidered. Of course, public employees are also subcontractors. They face a problem that all subcontractors face. Currently, Turkey has the right to employ nearly 1,300 firms subcontractors. But have you examined how many of these companies are active? Most of them are being banned from the tender. So you get a year, you don't put in a college security tender, you don't pay the premiums last month, you don't pay the salary of our friends. What happens after that? You're being banned from the tender. The poor private security guard either can't get his salary or the insurance premium is missing. The following year, this company makes an addition to its name -- the partners are roughly the same -- re-integrating and retaking the contract for the same institution. Now, in this bag of legislation, we've agreed that these contracts should go up to three years. Hopefully, it'll be a good development, but it's not enough, Congressman. Private security guards, like other subcontractors, need to be staffed in order for the problem to be solved radically. It's the only way to solve this problem. On the other hand, I said that private security guards, especially public employees, have more problems than other subcontractors. One, working hours. They have really serious hours. In exchange for these hours, they don't have night wages, hikes, overtime, these friends are having a lot of trouble taking time off, even though they have legal rights. Again, these friends of ours tried to form a union a few years ago, which they didn't get, who were trying to form a union, who led it. We haven't forgotten that either. So, we sincerely say that from the very beginning, from the beginning of the course to the working conditions of the public, private sector, security services staff, we think the matter should be re-examined. There's one thing, unlike other subcontractors, you take courses, you pay out of your pockets, so you're out of a job. We think it's essential that this matter be investigated. In that sense, I beg you, on this blessed day, you've said no to everything so far, at least say yes to it, my friends. Congressmans, of course, on the occasion of the group's proposal -- I have a few minutes left -- I'd like to address an important issue on the Turkish agenda. We're having some very interesting developments. There's another operation going on. Mr. Group Deputy President, this operation is such an operation that it's a new operation that shows that the previous operations have collapsed, but the prosecutor of these failed operations and the prosecutor of this operation are the same, Mr. Prime Minister. Friends, do you remember when the Prime Minister went out and said, "I am the prosecutor of these cases in the process of the Balyoz and Ergenekon cases?" Now the same is true, Mr. Prime Minister, who he called a terrorist organization before, is trying to hit me. He says that the investigation into the people he calls "the people" is unfair and illegal. Now he's taking the cops and his superiors they're running this investigation with their collars and handcuffs on them.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0034par0350	Who's buying?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0033par0351	The Prime Minister gets it, it's on the Prime Minister's orders.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0034par0352	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0035par0353	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0033par0354	We've said in the past, friends, over and over, that the story of the Ergenekon terrorist organization really is the greatest lie of the century. Sledgehammer, no such coup plan, no such coup.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0034par0355	That's right, there's never been a coup before!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0033par0356	We tried to explain, but Mr. Prime Minister came out, and he said, "No, there's a terrorist organization called Ergenekon, and we're gonna go all the way. That's what I'm the prosecutor for.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0036par0357	Ask him, ask him, go to America and ask him if he kissed his hand. Now he's screaming in there.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0033par0358	It's interesting, my friends, how many people were victims at that time. Look, I think you've forgotten your name, a late Kuddusi Okrır. What did they say about Kuddusi Okrır? They called it the vault of Ergenekon. The poor man died in prison in misery. Five years have passed, and so far no assets have been recovered after the death of Kuddusi Okrır, the vault of the Ergenekon terrorist organization. Do you realize that his family is still miserable? Moving on, what did you do on the Sledgehammer case? Against the police and the officers you took over as prosecutors and had these investigations committed today, against those who fought terrorism in those cases...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0037par0360	But now you're arm in arm.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0033par0361	... You played the terrorists as witnesses, you convicted them. Now, you used these guys until yesterday, you say that, you admit that, the Ergenekon and the Sledgehammer were a story, a big scam. Now, what is it, the cops and their superiors that you've been leading this scam together, that you're taking them into custody today because they've run out of use, or because the last investigation they've done has led to you?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0038par0362	They switched partners on February 7th.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0033par0363	Guys, what happened in the Ergenekon and the Sledgehammer process was illegal, human rights violations. Today's procedure is equally illegal. Three wrongs don't get one right, and two don't. So yesterday you made them do the wrong thing, you were behind them, and today you're trying to get the people you're using, the people you're using as shooters, to get them off and confess. I told you so you could reconsider on this blessed day. Friends, when I said prosecutor, I thought of something interesting -- I shared it with Mr. Aydın. The prosecutor of these operations, the prosecutor of the collapsed operations, Mr. Prime Minister, told me himself. Now, what does the supporting press say? The operation will jump, he says, to prosecutors who have investigated past police officers such as Ergenekon and Sledgehammer. Mr. Prime Minister, the chief prosecutor of these operations. Now, I'm speaking to the prosecutor who's running this operation, and if you need to expand an investigation into the prosecutors who are running the operation, if that's what it's supposed to be, do it, but please, I'm the prosecutor here. Remember to include the Prime Minister who agreed to this investigation. It's a shame... Behold, this evening we shall open our hands to heaven, and ask forgiveness of the Almighty. Is that right, fellas? But I also want you to do this: You run Turkey, you are members of the government's party. At least make a statement in respect of tonight's honor that we've lost the rights of who we've had in the past, how we're going to ask them to be lawful... and please make a statement while we're sitting and praying, in the face of this evening's water, I ask you to do this. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0039par0369	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0040par0370	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0039par0371	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0040par0372	He described our Prime Minister as the chief prosecutor of these investigations. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0041par0373	But he told me. No teasing, the Prime Minister's own words.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0042par0374	Sir, the Prime Minister himself says so.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0043par0375	He said so himself in the group speech.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0041par0376	Where did we pick on him, Mr. Aydın?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0044par0377	I'm not a prosecutor, I'm a prosecutor.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0045par0378	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0046par0382	Thank you, Mr. President. We understand the month of Ramadan, the month of mercy, forgiveness, and salvation from eternal hell, and we celebrate the night of Kadir, which is better than most nights and a thousand months. I wish for the salvation of the entire Islamic world. In particular, I would like to see that there are no unjust and unresolved accusations being made in accordance with the meaning and significance of these days. Now, first of all, we were against the coups yesterday, and today we are against the coups.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0047par0385	We're against it, so what? Now you're doing it.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0046par0386	Ergenekon and the prosecutor... if there are some rights violations -- we'll see if there are any -- but if there are some coup plans there, it shouldn't be overlooked, it shouldn't be considered. Yes, we stood up to the blow that day, and today we stand up to the blow.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0047par0387	Who did it, who?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0046par0388	Look, my dear friends, you're going to say "Prime Minister of Return," you're going to listen to the Prime Minister, our ministers, our MPs, our intelligence units.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0048par0389	Is there a conspiracy or not?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0047par0390	You played it. Did we bring him in?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0046par0391	Every interested, unconcerned section will be heard, listened unfairly and unlawfully, produced by virtual organizations, and this will reveal the secrets of the entire state, the secrets of the security departments...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0047par0392	It's all on the record. It's all in the list.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0046par0393	...you'll share your intelligence information with some parties, you'll spy, you'll combine all these issues with virtual organizations, you'll set up a conspiracy, a government that you can't defeat with a national will, you can't overthrow with a national will...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0049par0394	They did it because of you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0046par0395	...you will seek another way to overthrow the Prime Minister of Return. If you are to receive the commission from elsewhere, not from your superiors, but from Pennsylvania...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0050par0396	Your people are taking the assignment, and half the group went to Pennsylvania.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0046par0397	I'm sorry, but if you're going to try to take people's will this way, it's a coup, and those who do it in law will have to be accounted for, and they need to be asked.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0050par0399	You've organized a tour, a tour.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0046par0400	Yes, as we stood up to the coups yesterday, we're facing the coups today, but the CHP mentality... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...as the CHP has taken a stand for the coup, I salute all of you today, as it says the CHP's mentality has taken a stand for the coup.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0051par0403	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0052par0404	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0051par0405	Now, at the end of Mr. Aydın's speech, the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0052par0406	Please, if you'll just be quiet, I can't hear you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0051par0407	I'd like to say that today, sir, he's taunting our party, our group, in his defense of the coups.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0052par0408	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0051par0411	Mr. President, Mr. Aydın has taken a pledge due to bullying, Mr. Tanju Özcan said that Ergenekon is the Prime Minister of the Balyoz cases, and the prosecutor of today's police operation is the Prime Minister. He said that he had said something unfair and said that Mr. Aydın had said something wrong for Mr. Özcan. So our prime minister is not the prosecutor of these cases. I expected him to say something, but he didn't. So he admits to being the prosecutor of these cases. Basically, it's impossible for him to say otherwise, that the Prime Minister himself was the prosecutor of those cases.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0053par0412	He said the state of law, within the state of law...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0051par0413	Now, but I'm happy to see that U turn. I don't want to say it, but I'm not surprised.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0053par0414	But if you're the defender of the coups, that's something else!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0051par0415	He made this U-turn, Aydın said: "There was a coup plan in the Ballioz." So he says: "Those who are involved in the balooz, are arrested, arrested, convicted, are actually a little guilty." What did the Prime Minister say after December 17th? There are many innocent men inside, he said.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0053par0417	It's more of a sin.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0051par0418	What did he say that for? Not because he believed that he was a man without sin, but because the end of the investigation had come to him, and the four ministers would go, and he would go, and he would go to the High Council, and he would hold him in fear, and he would hold Ergenekon. Now he thinks he's outstripping them, and he thinks he's outstripping them, so he's back to the sledgehammer. There's no harm in saying it. It's a hypocrisy, it's a two-faced politics.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0053par0419	No one said it wasn't a fight.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0051par0420	I'd like the Deputy Director of the Group to announce on behalf of Mr. Prime Minister that the Prime Minister of Intelligence, Ali Fuat Yilmazer, said that the Prime Minister, how many times have you met with me in your life? I'll ask you to account for it. He said that the Prime Minister knew all about him. I wonder if the Prime Minister ever asked for an account, filed a lawsuit, filed a criminal complaint. I'd appreciate it if Mr. Aydın explained that.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0054par0422	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Against Isparta MP Recep Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0055par0429	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge against the National Movement Party's motion to investigate the problems that private security guards have encountered. Of course, there's no way against the motion to investigate private security officers, who serve well, fill a field, and are a major sector. Yeah, do our private security staff have problems? There is.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0056par0432	It's my rule commission.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0055par0433	Part of these problems, you know, the work that we've extended a little bit with long motions over the past week.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0057par0434	You're prolonging it, Recep.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0055par0435	I think we're aware that we've solved it inside.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0058par0436	What's solved? What problem has been solved?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0055par0437	Like, what do we solve? For example, did they have problems with their hard work, their permits? We solve problems with their permits in this bag of legislation.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0058par0438	How do you solve it?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0055par0439	Did he have any problems with whether the fees were paid or not? I did.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0059par0440	You don't know about the bag of laws.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0055par0441	Yeah, and I'm gonna need them to go to the real public office, or the security guys who work at the private company.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0059par0442	You don't know about the bag of laws.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0060par0443	What's the matter with you?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0055par0444	...the real employer will investigate whether the employee's fee is paid for by the private security guard.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0059par0445	What article do you solve it with?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0061par0446	What article, Recep?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0062par0447	What matter, Recep, what clause?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0063par0448	If it's not paid, the employer will take it out of his ration and deposit it into their bank account.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0064par0449	What substance, what substance?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0063par0450	I'll give you the item.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0065par0451	Tell me what substance you're solving.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0063par0452	This is where we solve it all. Did he have any problems with severance?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0066par0453	Recep, which clause?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0067par0454	It's relevant.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0063par0455	Yes, I did. We're also solving the problems of severance pay in this bag of legislation.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0068par0456	No, the Supreme Court has decisions.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0069par0457	The guy's problem is working for the season, where did you solve it?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0063par0458	As long as workers working as subcontractors in public institutions are working, severance compensations will be taken into account, regardless of the change of the firm, and will be paid by the public institution. If we can get all the problems that are being raised here in this bag of legislation before this festival, I hope we can get them out, thanks to you guys, as a holiday present.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0070par0460	If you don't, we will.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0071par0461	We're not blocking it, you're blocking it.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0063par0462	So if you want a real solution to the problems of private security guards, let's get this law out before the holidays, and give it to them as soon as possible.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0072par0463	Nothing is solved in this law.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0073par0464	Are there any casts?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0074par0465	Recep, you're talking in vain.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0466	Now, at the very last point, Tanju Ozcan has divided half of his speech into this motion and half into another subject. If he comes to this stand in his own speech, if he's careful, if he examines it, every time he talks, he's always picking on the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0074par0467	He's not kidding, he's telling the truth.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0468	Sure, every time you talk, you try to get a piece of yourself out of there. You're a congressman...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0074par0469	Good, we'll pick on Recep from now on.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0470	Me, too. Would it be nice if I told you about your president now, about Kemal Kilicdaroglu as soon as he was here? I'm an MP. The presidents are already fighting that battle amongst themselves. Is it right for a congressman to come down here and target the Prime Minister or a president himself? Politically correct? First Tanju Özcan brother, take a look at all your conversations.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0076par0471	What's wrong with that? What's wrong with that?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0472	You just went out yesterday, and you brought up a motion to the Prime Minister here again. You came out about the group proposal again today, and you told the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0077par0473	You messed with the co-chair of the BOB!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0474	Now, I'm the prosecutor of this case, and before I say that, Mr. Kilicdaroglu said, "I am the attorney of this case." I'm the lawyer for this case. If you say, the Prime Minister will come out. I'm the prosecutor for this case.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0078par0475	Oh, logic, logic!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0079par0476	Who's the judge, the judge? Recep, who's the judge, Judge?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0477	Look, you know what we want, what we want?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0080par0478	We're always lawyers for the innocent. We're all lawyers for the innocent.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0479	Look, you're here to criticize these recent investigations. Let all the facts come to light. Let no man be unjustly denied his freedom for a single day.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0081par0480	Well, there is.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0080par0481	And you're a lawyer, right? You're a lawyer, aren't you?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0482	But let's all do our duty in law enforcement. Let no soul be questioned about its plots, nor let any being be condemned by false arguments.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0081par0483	Well done! That's what we were saying three years ago.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0484	Look, this is our goal, our goal, our thing. But who's going to carry out these investigations?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0082par0485	Why are you operating on prosecutors, police chiefs, December 17, 25th? Why don't you do it to them?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0486	It's not judgment? That's what the judge does at the beginning of this investigation, isn't it?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0083par0487	What judgment?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0488	Let the judge do his work. Make us pay for politics! Look...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0084par0489	Do you give the court the opportunity to do its work in perfect order?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0490	Who did what you said before, what you said, what you said? He made a judgment call. Who's doing the current investigations? Judgement.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0084par0491	What did the Prime Minister say then, Recep?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0492	If there's something wrong with him, he's wronged, he's wronged, he's wronged...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0084par0493	I'm the prosecutor of this case.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0494	Damn all those who make the wrong decisions. Brother, whoever did it wrong, whoever did it...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0085par0495	Damn those who get it wrong.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0496	And no friend of mine who got the wrong bill, brother, I'm sorry, he can't cut it to us, it doesn't exist.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0085par0497	Those who get it wrong will be damned too, Recep.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0086par0498	Yes, yes, you'll say the ones who made them wrong, and the ones who used them, you'll say the ones who did. It goes to two places, goes to your partner and goes to you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0499	Now, isn't that what we all want, the truth, the truth, the truth, the truth, everyone who's in the government, to do their duty within our own borders, all of us, all of you? Let each one do his duty well, and let the judgment do his duty, and let the police do his duty well. This is a matter that is not based on the law of this police investigation... you will listen to the Prime Minister of this country, you will listen to the Undersecretary of the MIT, and no action will be taken against you. What kind of freedom is that? Is that a thing? Of course, nothing in this country should get away with it, but no one should be processed if they're innocent.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0086par0501	Recep, what country are you in? You never listen to talk here.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0502	As an AK PARTY, we want all the facts to be brought out in the open.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0087par0503	By keeping your own investigations under wraps, right?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0504	So, you don't have a share to get us out of here, you don't have a bill to get us out of here. If someone did something wrong, they're gonna pay for what's wrong in this system. In these recent investigations, it's a question of the account of mistakes made within the system, so don't make any other sense of it, don't put any other statement into it.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0088par0505	We're always in favor of the question of the bill, the answer to every lawlessness.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0506	If there have been mistakes in a number of investigations in the past, those wrongs must be dealt with. The main goal of current operations is to get people out of the system brought into the system, to ask about the account.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0089par0507	You bring them here.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0508	We all have the same desire, the desire, that our special security guard brothers and sisters have working conditions in better times, better conditions. I'm also celebrating our blessed Kadir Night. This proposal from the National Movement Party to investigate the problems of our private security guard brothers, hopefully later...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0090par0510	When, when are you going to do it?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0091par0511	Twelve years later, you say.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0075par0512	I'm expressing that there are certain adjustments in the bag of legislation, and better improvements must be made. My respects to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0092par0515	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0093par0516	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0092par0517	Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0093par0518	Sir, the orator made a mockery of my name in his speech, saying that every time I spoke, I was unfairly taunting the Prime Minister, trying to take credit for it, and lowering the level. I want words according to 69.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0094par0519	Isn't that right, Tanju?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0095par0520	Tanju, every time you talk...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0096par0521	Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0097par0524	Congressmans, now, first of all, I have no personal beef with the Prime Minister, and I have no business at all.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0098par0525	It can't be.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0099par0526	It can't be. What could happen?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0097par0527	Friends, but let me tell you, your orators often say that the mute devil is silent in the face of injustice. I'm not the mute devil.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0100par0528	Are you tonguey?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0097par0529	So, if I don't give him the answers, forgive me, but I don't deserve my salary from this state, and I can't do my job properly. Guys, what did I say today? What did I say? Wasn't it the Prime Minister who said, "I'm the prosecutor of this case regarding Ergenekon and the Sledgehammer?" I'm wrong? Am I making this up? Did he or did he not say that at the group meeting, beating his hand on the table, hitting his fist on the stand? You remember them better or you don't listen to the Prime Minister, you don't know what he's saying.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0101par0532	People don't believe you! People don't believe you!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0097par0533	Now, friends, the same Prime Minister says to the gunmen who were ordered to perform these operations yesterday as prosecutors, that you will do these things, just as you instruct them to be prosecutors in the same way. Would the PM say after the group meeting if he didn't act like the prosecutor of this case? These operations will probably go down there too. It says a fellow journalist. Yes, of course he'll go there. He says. Even that answer shows how involved a prime minister is with an investigation that should be conducted by the judicial agency in Turkey, which should be conducted by an independent prosecutor. I'm sorry, but we'll keep telling these facts at all costs. So the Prime Minister in front of us has been chosen by the people like us, and we have been chosen by the people. I'm sorry, he's not our king, we don't see him that way. We don't call the judge Recep Tayyip Erdogan without conditions; you say him. Look, that's what we call it.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0102par0536	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0097par0537	So I'm going to keep saying these things. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0103par0539	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0104par0543	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit01spe0103par0544	I will, sir. I submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes, and I seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. [[From the AK PARTY rows, the sound of "Ya, boo!"]] I beg you to speak properly. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0103par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 124th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The resolution of the National Party for Action Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Let's do it with the electronics, please. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the proposal is not accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Wednesday 23/07/2014 (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. Manisa MP Sakine Öz and his friends submitted a parliamentary inquiry motion issued on 21/07/2014 to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (1456 rows) in order to investigate the damage caused by the landslide of TELEKOM Atlam Towers in Erzurum Province, Palandöken district. lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in the presentations Wednesday (23/07/2014), and to be held in the same dated combination of their talks. In his favor, Manisa MP Sakine Öz. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0105par0022	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the Parliament's research motion to investigate different aspects of the public damage caused by the jumping tower runways that collapsed in Erzurum. I salute you all. With this proposal, we request a thorough investigation of the public damage caused by the jump tower track, which was built for the Inter-United Winter Olympics held in Erzurum, in 2011, as a result of the landslide on July 15th. We recommend that the House conduct a thorough investigation into public tenders, constructions and control processes, which have reached the level of scandal in our country. The tender and construction process, held during 2009-2010 for this facility, which cost about 95 million lira in Erzurum, has been extremely problematic, despite reports and warnings of different experts and occupational rooms in the time and place. As experts study after the landslide shows, construction that does not suit the structure of the floor, the selection of material for the site that does not match the fabric of the site, inadequate controls, the dangers of the landslide and the fault line, has revealed open negligence. We're not just talking about a jump tower, Congressman. We're talking about the report card of the rich through public tenders, the ones who squandered public goods and caused public damage at high prices, the ones who neglected the government's mandate to take control and measures. "It's a natural disaster, it's a disaster, it's a disaster, it's a disaster." We are here to ask those who respond with their words to account for the political responsibility for the destruction of such an important facility. The point where a sense of zoning has reached an extremely alarming level, a sense of natural and human life, a sense of self-esteem, a sense of control, a sense of greed, a sense of control, a sense of self-inflictedness, a sense of self-esteem, a sense of self-restraint, a sense of self-inflicted development in order to turn his back on the government and become rich. Members of the law, many of us have watched footage of the runway collapse, received opinions from experts, studied their reports in detail. We've seen in the press how the interested firm has prospered through public tenders in recent years. We regretfully read from the press how companies who wanted to participate in the tender had previously warned authorities against public damage, how they had been excluded from competition through additional terms to the tender. Given the doubts of the tender process, we're talking about a very important neglect, insurmountable, inter-party-corporated relationship, just like in Soma. Transferring public resources to certain political addresses in unsupervised hands has caused loss in Erzurum this time. Members of parliament, construction flaws that are associated with public damage in the jump tower, rant-oriented political relations, reveal that the question comes from the eye, without scientific calculation, without actual audits. Jumping towers in the lands of the lands and on the fault line have been built on forest land. Apparently, the clay structure of the fallen trees was built on huge towers and runway floors, regardless of how the clay structure holds water. We'll see more clearly when we get ground studies, but even the image of collapse alone shows that such a facility is done in a way that is far from the simplest architecture and engineering accounts, away from the most basic public audits. The collapse of the public's taxed runways, the abandonment of show-opening facilities and the lack of proper maintenance repairs, and the claims that concrete were used to patch the floor cracks on the runway are also required to be examined. In the process of inviting certain companies to the construction tender, it is not acceptable for the Ministry and the Federation to go over these allegations, as it is clear that they have been excluded from competition through the additional clauses written on the condition of the tender. If these companies claimed that the facility would end at a much lower price and warned the Ski Federation, why didn't the Ministry review these warnings by this time? Members of parliament, the "fitrate" of Soma, the "natural disaster" of the tarmac in Erzurum, is that the authorities look at the public tender as "opportunity." Where the government does not carry out its responsibilities, the environment is prepared for catastrophes and rant-oriented savings. The construction process makes more and more valid every day when the slope of the track is problematic, and the material used to stabilize the track is not defined in the project, and the land is not done according to the geological ground study, and the construction control of the company is not sufficient. TMMOB Geological Engineers Room warned, but the necessary measures against landslide risk and fault line factors are not being taken. On the one hand, companies warn the Ministry and the Federation that this tender will cause great public damage." Unfortunately, the Ministry doesn't respond, doesn't listen. We're in a very sad situation, Congressman. The company, which has been said to have hosted billions of dollars in public bids in the past decade, has made major mistakes in this tender, worth about 95m lira, at a hotel in "hellal" standards. But unfortunately, it doesn't work out with the decisive steps necessary. As a member of the Commission for Public Works, Development, Transport and Tourism, I expected a more sensitive and decisive response from the members of Erzurum's lawmakers. I stand by the 20 questions I've asked Mr. Akif Çağatay Sword, Minister of Youth and Sports, over this great scandal at Erzurum. It must be revealed immediately how the architects of the structures were chosen and how much they were paid for their architects, who controlled the project and implementation stage, who gave the right opinion of the facility's acceptance. The slope account of the track, one of the most important arguments, should be explained whether the ground improvement was done in line with the land. It should be discussed in detail what kind of ground study was made before construction on the collapsed track. Studies on the possible impact of the fault line on this construction should be questioned one by one, and those who decide to build the track must also be heard by Parliament. It must be focused on the disregard for warnings that artificial ponds in the region will soften the floor and trigger the landslide. The neglect of the state during the control process of the company that won the tender should be investigated by consideration of the entire construction process. Congressmans, I propose that Erzurum be considered a start in the parliamentary research commission, where we recommend that he work with these questions and allegations, to get our country off the "rant-image-political" wheel. Soma was damaged, burned, because of neglect, greed for profit, political wheels, covert inspections and irresponsible administrations. Let Erzurum and our country not suffer any more and let our country not burn again with such a disaster. The comprehensive investigation of the issue in legal, financial, architecture, geological, geophysical ways will be an important step towards solving problems in our country in terms of calculated, efficient and long-term use of public resources. We expect positive votes from our proposal, especially from our Erzurum lawmakers. I propose that the House be set up by establishing a research commission and set up a parliamentary research commission in order to ensure that public damage will not be tolerated again, with the participation of experts and occupational rooms, with legal tenders and conditions to be conducted, with respect to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0106par0044	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Against Erzurum MP Genghis Yavilioğlu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0107par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, on the 15th of this month in Erzurum, I have made a promise that this has been brought up because of the slip in the ski-jumping facilities. I salute you all. I'd like to start by condemning and cursing our people and brothers, whoever slaughtered them in Palestine and Iraq. Again, I pray that this night, the Night of Kadir, is a blessing for all mankind, for all the worlds of Islam, and for all the good. Dear friends, there have been important facilities for the 2011 Winter Olympics in Erzurum. Of course, winter Olympics or Olympic facilities have special significance for each province, economic, social, even demographic structure. Our friends here, each of the county members of this organization, with good analysis, will want to be done in their own provinces, with efficiency analysis, activity analysis. We all know why. And we all know the possibilities that such studies or such organizations have brought to the region and countries. But before I start talking, let me tell you, the fact that the Olympics are expensive and that the sustainability of those Olympic facilities after the Olympics is just as difficult. So after the world's Olympics, efficient use of Olympic facilities has always been a problem. With a problem like this, the whole world is face-to-face. For example, because of the Olympics that Greece next to us has done, we know that it has faced a financial crisis that has begun with a massive crisis, or even a $6 billion crisis, which has risen to $32 billion. It's a problem. Sustainability is important. So we're working on the continuity of effective use of the facilities, making efforts. There are important facilities in Erzurum. What did these gain Erzurum? Of course, I'm not in a position to answer all the questions that our CHP MP has asked, so let me be clear with you, because there are studies about this, there are studies about this. For example, immediately after the incident, a governorate team was formed and a study was launched. The governorship started it, Mr. Deputy, but then again, a team of seven members were formed by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, including the Department of Sports, Department of Facility, university professors. Again, there's a case of identification. In fact, there were studies that followed the incident, along with the Ministry of Youth and Sports and AFAD (AFAD), to determine whether or not the soil moves continue, so that sensitive measurements could be opened, and whether or not these devices would continue to slide here. The wells have already been drilled open and the devices have been placed there to determine if there will be any more slips. Again, there's a diagnostic case going on here, so I want to know as much as you do if there's a problem that's going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on I really do, because if there is one flaw here, he has to answer for it.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0108par0057	It's not enough to ask.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0107par0058	So there was a facility built here, an expectation of the people of Erzurum has been fulfilled, and they have serious gains there. These gains shouldn't be wasted. This groundwork needs to be removed once, and it needs to be identified. A diagnostic case has been filed, and it will be concluded through the expert witness. Secondly, there's been another trial by the D.A.'s office. The outcome of this is also important, but the outcome of this detection case is important.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0108par0060	There's been a huge incident there, which, of course, will be done, and it's a mistake not to be done.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0107par0061	But for these, there have also been serious panels of experts, both by the Ministry and by the courts. So, friends, I mean, it's not just here. Again, there's an investigation launched by the Ministry as well. The ministry's investigators are also investigating how the current slide here was caused from the beginning, from the stage of construction to its final state, how it developed, and the ministry is looking into it. So from a situation like this, the Governorate's Office has a purpose, and all of this has a purpose, by the work of investigators created by the D.A., the D.A., the D.A.'s department. Why, how, is there a technical problem? One. Secondly, is there any negligence in the process starting here from the stage of construction? But we'll find out when these reports come out. The expert reports are being prepared. Indeed, the work... before I came here, Mr. Minister is in Erzurum, and he has made a press statement about it, Mr. Secretary. And the Minister is doing his work on it with good intentions and subtlety.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0109par0064	Okay, well, if you're looking into it...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0107par0065	So here's what we're gonna do, Congressman, is we're gonna have to do something like this...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0109par0066	Let's work on the commission so this doesn't happen again.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0107par0067	We'll all wait for the consequences. These reports will come out, as a result of the reports, the trial process will continue. If there's anything here from the administration, both the investigations, investigations, and the lawsuits launched by the Ministry's investigators will lead to crime. So the company that received the tender, including the public officials who carried out the tender process. You'll have to wait for that, too. So without that conclusion, it's not fair to have an opinion about it now. You have to wait and see what happens. Dear friends, of course, when it came to this agenda, there was a perception that there was a problem in all of these facilities that were built by our government in Erzurum. However, this place has created a serious contribution and added value to Erzurum. The Erzurum people are taking advantage of it now, and they'll take advantage of it from now on.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0109par0069	Tell me about the tender process.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0107par0070	For example, Erzurum bought athletes at a rate he didn't take to these facilities, which were actually his first work last year, which is going on this year. At the moment, very seriously, sportsmen are coming in for training. The number of sports clubs entering the high-altitude camp for the use of facilities there is 16. For example, this has never happened in Erzurum. At the moment, the hotel's hailing rate is quite high. Again, there are hundreds of athletes in the majors, very famous skaters from Russia are here. At the moment, a new organization was launched there, again, through these facilities, through facilities built in 2011. Dear friends, what I'm going to say is this: let's get the reports out -- the reports are being drawn up right now -- let's all look at this together, let's look at the results. However, this should not turn into this: Erzurum should not ignore the added value of the investments in Erzurum. It's going on. We'll wait, we'll see, you'll see, we'll see. It's run in a very clear, transparent way, so don't worry about it. I mean, if there's a problem with the tenders, it'll come out, it'll come out, don't worry about it. I salute you all, friends.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0110par0074	You guys are fucking cops!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0111par0075	What happened to December 17, 25th... the cops who were operating on December 17, 25th saw it!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0112par0076	Thank you, Mr. Yavilioğlu.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0110par0077	You're fucking judge, you're fucking prosecutor, you're fucking cops! Nobody can ask anything out of fear.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0112par0078	In his favor, Mr. Bulent Belen, Tekirdağ MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0113par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Party of Republican People's Party's proposal to establish a research commission on the damage caused by the landslide of TELEKOM jump towers in Erzurum Province, Palandöken district on July 15, 2014 and to determine the public damage caused by the result. Before we begin with my words, I pray to God that the blessed Night of Kadir, which we believe to be better than a thousand months, will bring peace, peace, brotherhood, unity and unity to the entire Islamic world, and that the members of the terrorist organization who have committed killings and massacres in the name of Kahhar will be destroyed by the sheriff of God. Also, 19 years ago, on 24 July 1995, I bow to the unrelenting defender of West Thracian Turkic, the leader, the humble and loyal man, Dr. Sadik Ahmet. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, recently completed in 2011 for the University Winter Games in Erzurum, where they boasted and promoted the Bosphorus Bridge in Istanbul, were destroyed as if they were models or virtual structures on July 15, 2014. Of course, me and the National Movement Party, which I belong to, we are not happy with this incident, and we will never be happy with the effort to score a point on it. However, we owe it to you, from project to tender, to water pond to scandal, to the right of undamaged orphan 600 million Turkish liras that have been wasted in the first place. Dear lawmakers, we can sum up the construction of Erzurum University's Winter Games track in the Turkish language with the title "six pipe tops" in the title. The jump, the tower and the track project here is a project by the government of Slovenia for the country's selection of college races. The project was measured according to the ground jeans of a mountain in Slovenia, and when Slovenia lost its competitions to Turkey, the project itself was taken by the government and implemented by Erzurum. So the project was not built for the existing land in Erzurum. As a result, the tragic and sensitive point here is that the project is virtual. The land of the jumping tower is a pile of soil that extends to the runway. The current project had to be done in the field to adapt to Erzurum, as well as with the charges and fillings of wood tissue. Again, the project, measured according to the conditions of the land in Slovenia, is an illegal study that does not even meet the international standard, when it is realized that the length of the runway is insufficient after the construction has begun. The destruction of tree tissue in the field is a serious handicap. Although the main towers have ground studies in the area where the main towers are built, the traffic to the jump lane, the filling, and the floor concrete of the runway are vulnerable. Ski jumping facilities for the University Winter Games were completed on 27 January 6 February 2011 for 600 million Turkish liras except the organisation, and opened by Recep Tayyip Erdogan on 7 January 2011. In productions made, 1) With a capacity of 3,000, 2,000, 1,000 and 500 viewers, four ice skating, ice hockey halls and curling salons, 2) The host, the Palandöken, the Kandilite Ski Center, 3) Jumping towers and runways, 4) The roof arrangement of Cemal Gürsel Stadium, 5) The village of Games, 6) Mechanical evenings, cable cars and wiretaps, 7) The ponds, 8) Project and Landworks, available. A company bid 70 million liras, while the second company bids 57m euros, and the tender was left to the company of Sarıdağlar for 70m Turkish liras. The company mentioned -- according to media reports -- is one of the firms in which the current government was given the star-shining and especially the tidbit-like jobs given to it. When we side with these events and the notion of innovation, populism, innovation, nepotism, lack of skills, lack of money, and the loss of sporting prestige is seen here as well. Technically, no ground improvement, concrete blockage, fore stake and steel or iron blocks were found in the area when the destruction was observed. This is one of the clear evidence that the project doesn't belong on the premises. Otherwise, all the static of the project would have to be rearranged to make ground improvements. In action from this sentence, the water pool, which is not watered down, is responsible for destruction, including the pond, power, Minister, general managers Atalay, Yunus Akgül, Department of Facility Chairman Serdar Serdar Atalay, Hasan Hussein Şenen. Of course, there's no need to have a lot of technical knowledge, since the footage of this disaster collapsed like a paper tower when we watched the footage, it's obvious that the image was wrong, the material was incomplete. In this regard, the Parliamentary Action Party Group says that we will vote in favour of the establishment of a parliamentary research commission at the point of resolving the loss of 77 million of our people and with the money of 77 million people, and I respectfully salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0114par0105	Thank you, Mr. Belen. Against you, Bingöl MP İdris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0115par0108	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's motion by Erzurum to investigate the illegal construction and destruction of the ski facility in Palandöken district of our province. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, when we look at this motion, we would like to say that the motion has had a feature that could have led to a number of issues that have long troubled the public conscience, especially after the 17th and 25 December operations, which have allowed you to eliminate the possibility of covering public corruption over your government. Actually, right after the December 17th operation, we came here with two motions, and we said the House should set up two research commissions. We had expressed the first of these research commissions as a commission to deal with corruption, the second as a commission to fight the parallel state, but unfortunately, with your number majority at the time, with the attitude you've established here, we didn't get a chance to build the anti-corruption commissions in a way that the Parliament would take initiative, and since so far, I'd like to express to you that none of the steps you've made to fight corruption and to the parallel state have been credible neither in the society nor in the Parliament. Now, there's been an operational process against the parallel state recently, but no one in the public can tell whether the operational process is still being launched in a space that will give you perception management in the presidential election, to give you such an advantage, or whether it's actually a liquidation of parallel structures that are organized in all their structures across the state and instead of building a new democratic state. Now, after December 17th, you missed an opportunity like this. In the process, we know as well as all our people have followed your approach. I think this may be the beginning of the motion to remove all of these assumptions from you, because when you look at the detail of this motion, you can clearly see how a subcontractor can make trillions of withdrawals through public tenders during the period of your government. The company, mentioned, is a small subcontractor between 1980 and 1990. Between 1990 and 2000, a company that was not mentioned with many names, and was more likely to enter public tenders through sub-employee jobs, but, no matter what, during your government period, in 2000, we immediately see that 40 tenders, the largest part of public tenders, were transferred to him in some way, and that the AKP was instructed to walk, my servant. The tenders the firm received from here will not be enough for us to count the big jobs, but it is very interesting that we have an understanding from Bingol to Ionya, from Tripoli to Ankara, from Karabuk to Samsun, from foreign tenders to Eskişehir, from the country to almost all other tenders that could be considered a lion's share in the country and abroad. Media reports -- I'm sure you have -- have -- are often mentioned, especially with the AKP authorities and with some ministers. Again, 15 about this firm. We know there's been a lawsuit in the Criminal Court for filing an illegal invoice. All of this itself reveals that an investigative commission on the process we're talking about should be established, a research commission, and that this should be briefed to the Parliamentary General Assembly. Of course, the destruction of this ski resort in Palandöken is, in fact, very important to us, for some painted truths about your government. With the collapse of this ski resort, let's start with the corruption of the tender and construction process, and we can have conditions to expose many factors, up to nepotism in the audits and irregularities in the process. You're giving large amounts of contracts to companies, and you're running a bidding process that will completely exclude other companies in this regard. You're bringing some companies to a huge place within ten years of your own intimacy. That's not enough, these companies that are close to you, they're doing various corruptions in the process, and unfortunately, they're bringing these kind of paintings to our attention. So we're dealing with a process that needs to be investigated as a whole. We think, in fact, that the party that should be making more effort on this issue should be the ruling party, not the opposition party. The political rhetoric you promised our people about transparency, all your government programs and your election declarations about accountability is obvious. So if you've established transparency, accountability, as a commitment to the public, we'd like to come up here and express to a motion given on the transparency of these tender processes that you should not vote on. I'm sure every congressman can make an example of a lot of companies that have come out of their own constituency and have a trillion-dollar fortune in this way. For example, let me tell you from my own constituency, Bingley, that all public tenders, friends, are divided between almost four or five companies, so even such understanding means that your government is involved in all these processes and in these processes runs a criteria through proximity to your government. Look, the 26 HES dams built and built in Bingöl have been given to friends, Genghis Construction and Özltun Construction. Now, would it be possible for one member of parliament to be the only one who can say it's normal? Is it possible for him to say that almost all 26 HES contracts went to Genghis Construction and Autonomous? It's possible to give examples, to replicate them; when we look at them, in every sector, in every field, we get these kinds of paintings in front of us. There's a triple difference between a city road's tender fee and a city road's tender fee. So the road to the Servi district of Bingöl is 1.5 million miles [5 million km], while in the same area, the price can be one-third of the way to Bingol-Diyarbakir. Well, it's clear here that you're not only giving these contracts to companies, but you're also making it very clear to me how I can get a price rate and a profit based on the company. We think that the incident in Palandöken is particularly important for all of this to come out. There are numerous companies in Bingöl. And since the owner of this company of the Yellow Mountains is from Bingol, I'm specifically talking about him. There are countless companies, and many of them are almost bankrupt, but three companies close to your ministers are taking trillions of them to your minister. Even that requires a thorough examination. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, here, the Republican People's Party's motion has been very accurate. I think we should all agree, look into it, bring it here and share the results. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0116par0124	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0117par0127	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit02spe0116par0128	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Akar, Mr. Calkavan, Mr. Bay Bayantutan, Mr. Chosen, Mr. Köse, Mr. Köse, Mr. Künce, Mr. Ekcinci, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Serticer, Mr. Süvssel. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit03spe0116par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 124th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The polls held before the Republican People's Party Group's proposal was voted were not enough. Now, I'm going to repeat the inspection with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Vural, I promise you, you've had your request. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit03spe0118par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. It's July 23rd. July 23, 1999; today is actually the 95th anniversary of Erzurum Congress. The Erzurum Congress, where Turkey's foundations are laid, is a whole country, unbreakable. Manda and protection are unacceptable. The national will is fundamental; the national state is fundamental. It is a calling of the Turkish nation to the world with its motto. No one will be able to change Turkey's foundation or transform it. In this regard, the decisions made in Erzurum Congress are the foundations of today's Turkey, and are our guides to the future. Those who make these decisions in this Congress, those who make these decisions, those who make them, have mercy and gratitude. The Erzurum Congress will live and live forever. For those of you who wish to change these decisions to the former Turkey's decision, I hereby declare that the Turkish nation is indivisible. Manda and protection are unacceptable. Minorities cannot be granted political privileges and cannot be taken steps to upset our social balance. I think this Congress is a light in Turkey's situation today. And on this occasion, Mr. President, I wish that you and the entire nation, and the Court, and all the MPs, should be a blessing. May God not destroy our nation, our state, the Islamic world.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit03spe0119par0021	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Now, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the Law Bill and Proposals of the agenda and the Other Affairs From the Commission. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Kars MP Yunus Kılıç and Amassian MP Avni Erdemir and 79 MPs who are ranked in the 3rd ranking position of President of the Health Institutes of Turkey and the Constitutional Proposal and Health, Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Plan and Budget Commission Report, which is ranked in the 4th place, with 108 legal proposals for the amendments to certain Laws and Laws. 4-Current of Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; Ankara MP Izzet Çetin; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party Deputy MP Oktay Köçal; İstanbul MP Sena Kallıtı's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Balukı; İstanbul MP İzken's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Çeçı; Ankara MP İzket Balukı's Party's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Democratic Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP İdıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK) and İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK). Number: 639) [[X]] The commission and the government are in place. In the past session, Article 58 was adopted in the third part of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. We'll start with Article 59. There are four proposals on matter, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework 59 clause of the current law bill 639 rows be changed in the following manner. Ahmet Aydın Osman of Nurettin Canikli Look at your love "The following jokes were added to the temporary article 41 of the Law 59-5510 after its third joke. In accordance with this clause, the move-ins purchased by the Institution and the move-ins identified by the Institution's Board of Directors as surplus are transferred to the Finance Ministry in exchange for the appropriate opinion of the Institution's Governing Body and the payment of the Ministry of Finance to be used in public services or assessed according to general provisions if necessary. The price of payment is determined by the increase of the rate of revaluement in the period that has been purchased under this clause, after 6 months of the purchase date. In the age of other institutional subsidiaries, the return fee is determined by the Commission mentioned in the first joke." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP İzzet Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP's Party of Justice and Parliament's Party; İstanbul MP İzkı İzket Çakılı's Party; İstanbul MP İzktay Çeçı's Party; İstanbul MP İşent Tuzel's Party; İstanbul MP İçalı and İstanbul's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Çağalımıtı; Mehmet Çaçı Akçı; İstanbul's MP İçı İçıçılı and İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's MP's Party (Ç/TK); İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of Parliament's Party's Party of Parliament's Party of Parliament (TK) and İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party of İstanbul MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party of Parliament (TK); İstanbul MP's Party of Parliament (TK) and İstanbul MP (TK) and İstanbul MP) MP's Party's Party of Turkey's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of İstanbul MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party's Party of Parliament's Party's Party of İstanbul MP's MP's Party of parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of Parliament; İstanbul MP's MP's Party's Party of parliament's Party of Parliament's Minister of Parliament; İstanbul MP's Party of Parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party of Parliament's Party of We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Hasan Ören Izzet Cetin Mehmet Ali Sesam The following joke has been added to Article 41 of Law 59-5510 after its third joke. "As of this clause, those who have not been sold within two years of the purchase date can be transferred to the Treasury to be used in public services or evaluated as other treasure-related transports if necessary, in order to increase the price of the purchase by the institution, in the amount of time it takes." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ali Öz Erkan Akçay Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Ilk Yusuf Halaçoğlu The following joke has been added to Article 41 of Law 59-5510 after its third joke. "In accordance with this clause, those who cannot be sold within two years of the purchase date can be transferred to the Treasury to be used in public services or, if necessary, to be evaluated as any other property belonging to the Treasury, in order to increase the rate of re-appropriation in the amount of time bought, and to add any expense to the move." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Numbered Bill of Laws, which has been discussed, be removed from the draft text of Article 59, which envisions the amendment to Article 41 of Law 5510. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit03spe0120par0077	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit03spe0119par0078	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit03spe0121par0079	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit03spe0122par0080	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit03spe0119par0081	I'm reading the reason: It is not in accordance with the political principles that there are legal provisions in this draft text, which are announced to be issued for workers who have lost their lives in Soma. With change, this problem is intended to be resolved.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit03spe0123par0084	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit03spe0119par0085	There's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0119par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 124th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. On Article 59 of the Law Bill 639, there was not enough decision in the vote of the proposal of Bingöl MP İdris Bauken and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Doesn't look like it. [[There's an AK PARTY line, there's a voice.]] I'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0124par0011	What is it, Mr. President? If you could just see some facts...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0119par0012	Congressmans, you are most welcome...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0124par0013	Be objective, neutral.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0119par0014	I mean, we're here to determine that. It's not what's being found right now, it's our friends from the outside. Please, don't get too involved in this kind of work. We're doing our job. We'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ali Öz (Mersin) and his friends The following joke has been added to Article 41 of Law 59-5510 after its third joke. ▪ Those who have not been sold within the past two years by the institution as of the purchase date can be transferred to the Treasury to be used in public services or, if necessary, to be considered as any other treasured movers, as well as to increase the rate of revaluement in the amount of time that has been purchased, and to be used in any expense added to the move. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0125par0024	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0119par0025	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0126par0026	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0119par0027	Mr. Ali Oz of Mersin, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0127par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding the amendment of Article 59, which we have made to make changes in some laws and laws under the law. I hereby congratulate the great Turkish nation following us, on the night of Kadir, which we will be able to understand today, you, my fellow members of parliament and all the world of Islam. Of course, when we talked about this bill, we explained that a lot of non-related substances were filled into this bag every time we came to the stand. As we begin here, we're going to make arrangements over 301 people that we've lost in a major accident, a major disaster, a massive massacre in our country, and we've filled the bag with so many things that we've been able to fill in so much that we've been able to increase the revenues of the Social Security Agency, that we've started to reassessing their assets, that we've started making arrangements for other materials. In the meantime, it's not something we normally object to. So it's impossible to criticize the fact that if he's not using a real estate taken by the Social Security Agency, that after two years, he should be given a certain value to the public service or transferred to the treasure for other use. It's a proper arrangement, but with this bill, I'd like to express that we're missing the point of the Parliament's primary task of establishing law. So we're making an arrangement, making the arrangements personal or institutional. After a major disaster we've had, we're just trying to make arrangements on the dramatic disaster at a certain location. However, it is not possible that similar accidents will not occur in our country in the future, that similar disasters will not come to the agenda, which we already have taken measures, and we know that we cannot prevent business accidents from happening in the reality of Turkey. We're just bringing in the families of those who lost their lives here, where we're making arrangements to improve the social rights of the rest of them, to reassure them. We all know that we have had to lose a lot of people in this country, not just in Soma, but in other cities, in other mines or other natural disasters. Therefore, since your arrangements are not in universal norms and are not in a system that includes everyone, we will make a holy, holy Ramadan law on the day of Ramadan. I believe that you have occupied the agenda of the Assembly in vain, and I want to say that you have no right to do so. In a wholety, whatever is to be done, matter is determined by the law; when things happen, the person, the institution, the corporate structure, whatever personal identity there is, all are determined by it, and it is arranged accordingly. But what are we doing? Like when disaster befalls us, we have to make new arrangements for it from the moment of disaster. Of course, there aren't just people here who died in business accidents. In fact, there are a lot of people in our country that we don't take on a lot of agendas, who have had work accidents, who have been forced to work in the same place after the accident, and who have been working with people who are working with them, who really need rehabilitation, who can't even go back to their profession after these traumas. There's a lot of trouble these guys have been through. There are major problems with people who have lost their ability to work outside of occupational illness, who need to be rehabilitated, especially after brain, spinal cord or extremities. But for some reason, despite the fact that we've already said so, at this point in our country, we see that the necessary measures are not taken, that the necessary arrangements are not made. Look, we live every day. There's been a car accident or another business accident, and it's falling from somewhere, the citizen says: I have to come to this place in Ankara. It's happening to all of you. You can make an appointment there. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We know that people who need to be rehabilitated quickly are given fixed periods of time for years, that they are given appointments. And I believe that everyone should be sensitive about it, and I salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0128par0039	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Dikal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Izzet Çetin's Party; Ankara MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu; İstanbul MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyelılılılı MP İzlı İzlı İztay Kılı; İstanbul MP İztay Çekıçı; İstanbul MP İncın's Party; İstanbul MP İncı's Party; İstanbul MP İncımım İçı and İstanbul's MP İçı Akçı MP İçı MP İçıçıçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul Çaçı Akçı Başıı MP İsılıılı; İstanbul MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsıçıçıçıçı MP İsı MPı MP İçııııı MP İsı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııılıııııııııılılılı MPı MPıçıçıçıçı MPıçı MPı MPı MPıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPııııııııııııııııııııııııııılılılılılılılılı MPıı MPılı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılı MP and İstanbul MPı MPı MPılılılılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPı MPı MPıııııııılıılılılılılılılılılılı We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends The following joke was added after the third joke in Article 41 of Law 59-5510. Those who cannot be sold within two years of the purchase date can be transferred to the Treasury to be used in public services or, if necessary, to be evaluated as other treasure-related transports, in order to increase the cost of the purchase by the institution, in the amount of time it takes. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0129par0048	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0128par0049	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0130par0050	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0128par0051	Alderman Haydar Akar, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0131par0053	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, yes, we're discussing the bag law starting Tuesday last week. As you all know, the bag went to the Plan and Budget Commission after a Soma disaster on its way to the Plan and Budget Commission, and as a law prepared to relieve the suffering of the disaster in Soma, it actually went to the Plan and Budget Commission, and then reached a record level of 128 articles, which was held for days at the Plan and Budget Commission. Now, from time to time, AKP executives, AKP vice presidents, say the Republican People's Party or opposition blocked this bag of laws. The Republican People's Party doesn't block the bag of laws. Even though they were not members of the Plan and Budget Commission, I saw in the Plan and Budget Commission that my Manisa friends, our Manisa MPs, Hasan Ören, Free Private and Sakine, and our members of the Plan and Budget Commission were struggling. They were struggling to say: "Let's separate Soma (Soma) from this law, let's meet the others at different times, or at another time, other than Soma, let's bring up the immediate need for the pardon of taxes or the subcontractors in this law, and let's take it out by the agreement of all political parties." They said, "Let's get rid of the votes of the AKP members." You don't have the right to go out on the street and be a hypocrite, you don't have the right to be a hypocrite. And we said the same thing over and over again, and we said, "Yes, let's take out the law on Soma. Let's take out the law on Soma. Let's do it together in one day, in two days. Let's make the decisions that thousands of mine workers in Turkey have been waiting for. Let's make the law here. But you didn't. Now you're accusing me of obstruction. I'm not upset, I'm out; from Tuesday to Tuesday this week, 15 hours until the start, the House has stopped working because there are no more decisions. I don't count the last three days, 51 times they've been asked to make a decision, 29 of which there's not enough to decide, and he's had to take a 15-hour break. We're here, and we're talking about all the articles of the law, and we're listening if we have to.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0132par0057	How many of you are there?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0131par0058	This citizen chooses you to sit in these council seats, listen to this law and contribute to the release of this law, not to go and enjoy yourselves in the garden, my friends. So once again, don't you dare blame us for this. Now, my dear friends, I'd like to make another point of your hypocrisy. Look, right after the Soma disaster, I made a law proposal. Based on what? I offered him a law, knowing that contractors would react to me, and I said, "Don't hire a sub-employee in the mines." I brought this bill here from Article 37. What did you and other opposition parties do that day, in those painful days, when I knew you weren't planning to do that because you were afraid of the consequences? You've agreed to this. You agreed, we got the number of rows, but after the number of rows, we put it in front of the agenda in an environment where you're not here again, where there's a majority of opposition. You went so far that you didn't want to discuss it, because you were giving people the good news of a subcontractor, because you were giving people false good news, and we're going to lift the Tajheron, and we're going to improve his condition. You said, "We're going to make a decision on that week, and you asked for the first time in the House." You've taken a leave of absence to the House, asking for the number of decisions, which has been a black mark on the history of the Republic of Turkey. Still, my proposal for the law that you've taken into consideration, which you've accepted, is not included in these 148 articles. Again, I'm in favor of removing all subcontractorships, but I'm still defending the removal of subcontractorships in the mines from this platform. Again, you didn't put that bill in this bag of law. Again, there's not a single clause in this bag law about the removal of subcontractorship, you've even institutionalized subcontractorship, you're institutionalizing subcontractors, you're trying to secure more and more and you're trying to bring good news to subcontractors. As long as you do so, you have no chance of preventing business accidents in Turkey, killings in Turkey. So I'm saying that we need to remove the public subcontractorship in particular as soon as possible, and give them the wages they deserve, the safety of jobs and the health of workers. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0133par0063	Thank you, Mr. Akar. The motion...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0134par0065	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0133par0066	You're asking for a sufficient number of decisions. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0135par0068	There's, there's...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0133par0069	There's not enough of a decision.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0135par0070	Mr. President, ask the people next door.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0133par0071	No, sir. Turn around, there's no one here.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0136par0072	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0135par0073	Sir, ask the people next door. No, okay?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0137par0074	The Court says........ the Court.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit04spe0138par0075	I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0138par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 124th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. On Article 59 of the Law Bill 639, there was not enough decision-making to vote on the resolution of the 639th Amendment. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I suggest we do it electronically so we don't have to argue. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's enough to decide, it's not accepted. We'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I'm having the other motion read...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0139par0011	In paragraph 2 of our proposal, it is transferred to the Ministry of Finance. We're correcting it in the form of treasure. I demand that the grounds be filed according to it.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0138par0012	All right, then, I'll have the motion read to the Ministry of Finance, not to the Ministry of Finance, but to the Treasury.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0139par0013	The reason is the same, in the shape of the treasure.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0138par0014	We're fixing his alibi the same way. You will read it as treasure.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0140par0015	What, sir? Not by reading it, we need to examine this motion.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0138par0016	He's fixed it now, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0141par0017	It has to be delivered to us, Mr. President, we need to examine it.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0138par0018	Here you go, sir. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework 59 clause of the current law bill 639 rows be changed in the following manner. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends "The following jokes were added to the temporary article 41 of the Law 59-5510 after its third joke. In accordance with this clause, the move-ins purchased by the Institution are transferred to the Treasury for the appropriate opinion and approval of the Institution's Governing Body and for those requested by the Ministry of Finance to be used in public services or assessed according to general provisions if necessary. The price of payment is determined by the increase of the rate of revaluement in the period that has been purchased under this clause, after 6 months of the purchase date. In the age of other institutional subsidiaries, the return fee is determined by the Commission mentioned in the first joke." Does the commission agree with this revised motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0142par0025	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0138par0026	The government...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0143par0027	Mr. President, I mean, right now, specifically, I don't know what this correction is...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0138par0028	Mr. Vural, the motion is made to correct the motion. The motion is submitted to the information and approval of the Commission and the government as to whether or not it agrees.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0143par0029	You've read this motion.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0138par0030	They demanded...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0143par0031	Didn't you read the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0138par0032	We read it, sir, and they wanted to correct this motion that was read.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0143par0033	How are you going to correct the revised motion, sir?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0138par0034	It's because he requested it.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0144par0035	The motion is correcting, and the presidency isn't correcting it.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0145par0036	It has to be within our knowledge.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0144par0037	Brother, you say no to him, you don't vote.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit05spe0146par0038	Congressmans, let's set this discussion straight. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0146par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 124th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 639 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now, I'm asking the Commission for the motion that I've passed on to the Ministry of Finance, which I've already made correct, which I've passed on to the Treasury: Do you agree?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0147par0005	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0146par0006	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0148par0007	We agree with your correction, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0149par0008	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0146par0009	I'm having him read his motive: We have corrected the text on demand, as well as on grounds; I am making the Ministry of Finance read it as a treasure. In the case of the request of the institution's administrative services to be used by the Ministry of Finance for the demands of other move-ins that have been decided to be redundant by the institution's Governing Body in exchange for what the Social Security Agency has bought in exchange for bonus and premiums, it has been intended to transfer the full number of members of the institution's Governing Body to the Treasury with the approval of the Minister of Labour and Social Security. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. With this motion accepted, I submit to your votes the 59th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three proposals on the 60th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Bill of Numbered Law, which has been discussed, shall be replaced by the 639 Months (11) of the 60th Amendment of the vision to add a temporary clause to Law 5510. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu; İstanbul MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyelı İzklı MP İzlı İztay Çekal; İstanbul's Party's Democratic Party's Democratic Party's Democratic Party; İstanbul MP İznet Tuzel's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Çeşı; İstanbul MP İçı İçı İçı İçıtını; İstanbul's Party's Democratic Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İnant Çeçı; İstanbul MP İçı İçıçı; İstanbul Köçıçıçıçı; İstanbul MP İçı; İstanbul MP İçı İçı İçıçı; İstanbul MP İçı; İstanbul MP İçı İçı İçı İçı; İstanbul Köçıııııııılıı; İstanbul MP İçıçı İs Party's Party's Party'sılııılıılııılıılılılı MP's Partyı; İstanbul MPrıçıçı MP'sı; İstanbul MP İçııııııııı; İstanbul MP and İstanbul MP İs Party MP İs Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Ali Sarıbaş İlhan Demiröz Bkent Kuşoğlu The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 60-5510. "UNICIAL health insurance has been registered as part of the first joke of Article 53-60 of Article 53-60, but from those who have never applied for the income test to the release of this item within three months of the period, the general health insurance premiums of those who have applied for the income test are subject to registration from the start date. In fact, the general health insurance premiums, which have not been paid due to the date of the registration, have been issued until the end of the month, and any delay and increase will be abandoned from the period of the month following the release of this substance. As part of the first joke (g) of the 60th article (i.e., "re'sen's general health insurance has taken an income test prior to the time when this clause is in effect, but prior to this assessment, the number of times of the general health insurance premiums have not been paid have been carried out. However, the overall health insurance premium they have paid by the time this clause is in effect is not returned to them for the penalty of delay and delay hike. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this substance are determined by the Institution. The Council of Ministers is authorized to extend the three-month period mentioned in the first joke another year. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0150par0043	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0146par0044	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0151par0045	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0146par0046	İstanbul MP Müslim Sarı. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0152par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 60th article of the bag law. I salute you all. From the moment the law talks started, some of my friends came in here and made some assessments of some of the procedure mistakes, and I'm not going to go into those details. I just want to say that we see together that the error of Parliament's law-making technique has brought down Parliament's dignity every day. We just had the best example of this in the Plan Budget Commission. According to Article 42 of the Turkish Central Bank Act, under the responsibility of accountability, a Central Bank, which should be presenting to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the legislature, and should answer questions, refused to answer our questions in front of the Commission, and I will not answer those questions. I prefer to answer these questions in writing. This is disrespectful to the Commission and Turkey's Grand National Assembly and its legislature. There was an argument about it upstairs, and as a result of this discussion, the Central Bank has decided to grant and answer our questions. This is actually a simple demonstration of how much the reputation of Parliament has been reduced to bureaucracy, an example, and I think that our methods and techniques of lawmaking are very closely related to it. That's our problem. The 60th article is a very important substance because it has learned from the 60th article to a debt that the citizen does not know. Yeah, it's a loan from the bag to the citizen. It turns out that about 7 million 515, 607 citizens owe about $9.1 billion for the resounding of income tests required under general health insurance, so 9.1 quadrillion with the old money. While praising general health insurance, Mr. Prime Minister issued an identity certificate in his pocket, and said, "O citizen, if you do not have health insurance in any way, if you do not work, you will go with an identity certificate, you will be treated at the hospital you want, and the state will cover the premiums for this, and the public will also accept it." The citizen believed and trusted in it and switched to the general health insurance system, Turkey. As part of the general health insurance system, citizens had to take a revenue test. But the citizens who did the revenue test remained at only 5 per cent of the total citizens. Yesterday, Mr. Secretary says that the opposition has a share in the low level of income testing. Let the opposition go and tell it to the citizens. I'm sorry, but you're in power, you have to tell it as a power. What happened when the citizen didn't take the income test? The SGK and the relevant units did a resensal income test and said: "O Ahmet Efendi, you have not come to take an income test, but we know your income. According to the measurements, for example, you have a income between one and two times the minimum wage, and you have to pay 128 lira a month, you have to pay a premium. Aunt Ayşe doesn't know about this, she doesn't know about this because she didn't get health care in any way. Now, Aunt Ayþe is going to the hospital, and she says: "I have a headache. I want to get an X-ray from the girl in the bank because I have a headache. She says: "Get your ID, get your free treatment." She says: "I brought my ID, I have a headache." The girl in the bank went into the computer with the TC number, she said: "Ayshe, you owe $3 billion. He said, "Where did the debt come from?" Well, since you're on general health insurance, your income is low, you haven't had a income test, and you haven't had a income test, we gave you a resen-income test. Your minimum income has come up between one and two times the amount of your income, and you owe me 3,000 liras for two years, backwards at 128 lira a month. Pay this 3,000 lira debt, and I'll make arrangements for your headache, for your X-ray. Now, we say that this person has never had health care before, and he doesn't know that he's been inside the system in any way, so at least don't run it backwards from the time he did the income test. From that date until today, take him into the scope of insurance and pay his premiums in general health insurance coverage. But Mr. Government and Mr. Secretary, no, we can't backtrack. We can't start it from then on. The citizen will pay his debt. He says so. So I'm calling from here to my citizens: 7 million, 515 thousand citizens face a debt of 9.1 billion. Following this arrangement, notices will soon come to the houses, soon citizens will pay their debts. I call upon the government to step down from this. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0153par0062	Thank you, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0154par0063	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0153par0064	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the Republican People's Party's motion to your votes: those who agree... those who refuse... the decision is sufficient...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0155par0066	Yes, sir, let's do it electronically. Mr. President, let's do the electronics.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0153par0067	I'll do it with an electronic device.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0156par0068	No, there's 50 of us, and if you can't see that, what can I say? Take the initiative, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0157par0069	Mr. President, it's very clear that it's not.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0153par0070	I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, and the motion has been rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0158par0078	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0153par0079	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0159par0080	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0153par0081	Iconian MP Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0160par0084	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. General health insurance premiums for those who have not taken the income test for six months are expected to be given and tested for income, according to the level of income to be determined by the income test, which will be established from the start date of the registration. Of course, it is not incompatible with the right to borrow back, so the date must be based on whichever date the citizen applied instead of the date of registration. It is not right to borrow money from him for general health insurance that he has not benefited from. According to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy's 2012 Association of Social Aid Statistics, the total number of households in our country is 2 million 517, 918, 10 million 401,419, as of January 4, 2013, as a result of the overall health insurance application. The number of households with net income per person is 3,606,542, and the number of people is 14 million 363,635. According to the same bulletin, there are 6.3 million households and 23 million people living in the Integrated Social Services Information System, which is referred to as the inventory of unemployment. As the Ministry of Family and Social Policy publishes this data every six months, the increase in the number of poor people will be intimidating, which he has now removed from his website, which he has not published in a year and a half. Turkey appears to be a country that is getting worse and worse in terms of income and living conditions during the AKP period. During the 12-year period of AKP governments, no social order has been established to free the citizen from poverty and provide rightful income sharing. Instead of providing an institutional identity for the fight against poverty, the AKP has made it a place of abuse and has watched poverty deepen. Again, Turkey's Family Construction Research in Turkey, which the Ministry of Family and Social Policy had built in 10,578 homes and announced in February 2013, has revealed the sad state of income and income distribution in our country. Data from the study show that 61.2 per cent of the houses in Turkey are trying to survive on $1,200 per month and below. 78.5% of the households try to live on $1,900 and less. In short, the government in Turkey has exposed its own lie through its own research on real household income and revenue distribution. The AKP's government is trying to cover up a grim picture of its work and research through real data, rather than developing policies to ensure revenue-producing and income justice. The dramatic result of these revenue tests and research has been that the AKP government's income per capita has increased to 10,500 dollars. Our citizens can only live on debt. The AKP government's economic policy has already been set up to lend our citizens money. According to the Central Bank Financial Stabilisation Report, household debt increased 55.5 times during the AKP period. In 2002, the household allocated only $5.00 of every $100 income, while this amount exceeded $55 billion as of 2013. During the AKP, more than half of our citizens' income is being transferred to pay off debts. In 2002-2012, the rate increased from 1.7 per cent to 5.4 per cent. The household interest payments reached $2.5 billion in 2002, while in 2013 it increased to $36.5 billion, so it increased 15 times. This data reveals how the citizen was dragged into debt and interest and the AKP's love of interest and its conversation with the interest lobby. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0161par0095	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Numbered Bill of Laws, which is being discussed, shall be replaced as the sixth month in Article No. 5510, which envisions adding a temporary clause to the Law. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0162par0102	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0161par0103	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0163par0104	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0161par0105	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0164par0106	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 60th Amendment. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the arrangement made here along with this 60th article is defined as a six-month period of income testing for those who do not take the income test, providing income testing for those who don't take the income testing, setting general health insurance premiums free of interest, based on the level of income, so the income test is defined as deleting the bonus debt of those who are less than one-third of the minimum wage. Now, what's actually done here is that when you bring in this revenue test app, we've expressed that it's wrong, that it's going to cause serious harm, and that it's going to come back to us with serious problems. You didn't have any respect for these opinions and you did what you knew. Now those problems have given rise to new complications. This time, you bring an arrangement of complications to the General Assembly as if it were a positive step forward. We need to express that this approach is not correct. You know, the application of this revenue test was an arrangement for the application of green cards used by the citizen by you at the time the global crisis knocked on the door of Turkey. So, you brought this app to Turkey's agenda in order to shield the lives and health of the poor, the threat of the global crisis at that time. We've already expressed that that's not true, and now we're expressing it. You were based on an arrangement that would victimize nearly 9.5 million citizens with green cards. There, you carried out the application on the basis of about 279 TL, a third of the minimum wage. At that time, I made this suggestion: When we looked at the numbers of hunger and poverty of all trade unions, occupational organisations in Turkey, we said we were up to $1,231 for hunger, $1,607 for poverty. At least when we set the criteria for taking advantage of this income test, we agreed to take the reasonable, a formulation on the edge of hunger and poverty, but unfortunately at that time our proposal was not taken into account, and you brought here an application that we couldn't support, in any way, in the amount of money that you'd be able to get the poor out of the health system. Now, here's the thing, is whether the citizen is satisfied with this revenue test application, and you're going to have to do a study on measuring it, and you're going to bring back the regulation of not living it. So, as I said, you're keeping the Parliament General Assembly busy with complications because you're going to be borrowing $9.1 billion to about 7.5 million citizens in the current picture. You've created such a huge problem area, and now you're thinking about this area of trouble. In fact, we want to say that the main reason for general problems in health is because of your effort to implement a centralization understanding here, as in all policies. We think that Turkey's problems with all localisation can be solved on the basis of the management principle. Health care should also be provided by local authorities, and we think it is impossible to address the radical health problems of Ankara's plans. When you think differently, it's already unknown to the public, until there's a law from Ankara a thousand kilometers away. Most of the time, when we read those laws, even we don't understand them. Let's just say it's understood that there are a lot of bureaucratic procedures, bureaucratic obstacles in the process of living, and that's how it comes to you as a ball of trouble. So we're essentially expressing our views that both the income test and the central practices of health policy must be replaced by localization. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0165par0114	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 60th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 60th article has been accepted. There are three motions on Article 61: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the current 639 Numbered Bill of Law shall be changed to "31/12/2013" (31/12/2012) in Article 61, which envisions adding temporary material to Law 5510. İdris Bauken Erol Dora İbrahim Ayhan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Şeker's Party's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul MP's Minister's Minister and Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Ankara's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Ankara's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Ankara's Minister's Minister's Minister's Democratic Party; Ankara's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Democratic Party; Ankara's Minister's Minister's Democratic Party; İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Ankara's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul; Ankara's MP's MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul (HDP (HDP) Minister's Party of the Minister's Party of Parliament's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Mehmet Crescent Tiger Izzet Cetin chooses Vahaap Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends The following temporary clause is added to the Law 61-5510. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0166par0137	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0165par0138	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0167par0139	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0165par0140	Iconian MP Mustafa Kalaycı wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0168par0143	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The premiums, delay hikes and delay sentences will be valid from the start of the insurance policy, provided that the tradesmen and farmers who have been cancelled and have paid by December 31st 2013, when the registers of members in the shops and agricultural chambers have been determined that their records are not in accordance with the legislation. There are many victims amongst people who are insured in social insurance practices. In accordance with the principle of equality of the Constitution, all insured women and men must be given equal rights in order to ensure norm and standard unity among the insured. In this scope, the insuranceed women, tradesmen and artists, and the insured women farmers, are finally agreed on this bill to be able to lend births that they have been deprived of for years. For the same reason, it is necessary to arrange for our tradesmen and artists and farmers to receive temporary disability allowances during sickness and standing treatment, as well as for workers.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0169par0147	The change text was not read.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0170par0148	Mr. Tin Man, a moment of your time. Please, can I take your place? Part of the motion was skipped, not read. We're sorry. Again, I promise you from the beginning. Sorry we missed it. The following temporary clause has been added to the Law 61-5510. THE Law on Trade and Industry Rooms No. 54-Mulga 4355, Trade Rooms and Trade Stock Exchanges Law No. 5373, while the First Amendment of the 4th Article (substantiated by the First Amendment) was issued in accordance with the Act of Business and Small Artists; Trade and Arts Register or Rooms 4355, although both were registered in accordance with the legislation of the Union of Trade and Trade Stock Exchanges No. 5373, as well as the First Article of the First Article (instegration of the First Amendment) was issued under the number 22/12/12/12/13, as well as the end of the number of the agreements. According to Articles 2nd and 7th and Articles 2, 5th, 5th and 9th of the Law, the premium is up to 31/12/2010, as long as the tariffs and delay sentences are paid by 31/12/2013, as long as the institution and institution and institution's membership records are not made in accordance with legislation. However, records that are not registered in the agricultural chamber at the time of the arrest are not considered valid, and are then re-established. The service is not cancelled according to the first and second jokes after the date of this clause. According to the subdivision of Article 4 of this Law (b) of subdivision (4), the second of the 80th article (a) shall be insured if the insurance holder is required to demand it within six months of the implementation of this law, according to Article 31/12/2008, according to the extension of the first amendment (a). If the person who is insured pays the full amount of debt that has been delivered to him within six months of the day of the notification, they will be considered an insurance period. If the amount of debt to the insured is not fully paid during this period, the period is not considered an insurance period, and the amount paid is returned according to Article 89 of the Law. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this substance are determined by the Institution. I repeat the process. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0171par0162	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0170par0163	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Thank you. I'm sorry, sir, there are sometimes these jumps from the density. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0172par0169	He was out a minute and a half, three and a half minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0173par0170	Let him pick up where he left off.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0174par0171	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. It's only five minutes, Mr. President. According to this clause, their insurance policy will be valid from the beginning, as long as the purchasers and farmers, whose insurance has been invalidated, have paid the hikes, delay hikes and delay sentences by December 31st 2013, after the bill has been determined that members' records in the trade rooms registers have not been registered in accordance with the legislation. There are many victims amongst people who are insured in social insurance practices. Under the principle of equality of the Constitution, all insured women and men must be given equal rights in order to ensure norm and standard unity among the insured. In this scope, the insuranceed women, tradesmen and artists, and the insured women farmers, are finally agreed on this bill to be able to lend births that they have been deprived of for years. For the same reason, it is necessary to arrange for our tradesmen and artists and farmers to receive temporary disability allowances during sickness and standing treatment. Despite the fact that there are taxpayers and office records, many of our tradesmen and artists and farmers have not been able to account for some of their past employment periods, and therefore they cannot retire. Although regulations have been made in the past regarding the debtation and the duration of these periods of insurance, there are many tradesmen and artists who have been unable to benefit from economic impromptuness, economic crises, and for some other reasons. In essence, according to legislation, it also turns out that the Social Security Agency does not perform the duties given to it by law because it has not been registered and registered at the time of its mandatory insurance period. In this respect, it must be considered an insurance period without being asked to register and register in the past, including the fact that the working period with the taxpayer and room registration is legally mandatory insurance. Traders and artists and farmers expect such an arrangement from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Deputies, tradesmen and artists are one of the lowest pensioners in our country. The AKP promised that the pension between pensioners would cover its injustice, but failed to comply. A partial improvement has been made for only former SEC pensioners before 2000 and after 2000 was ignored by the disparities of pensioners, pensioners, retired tradesmen, and artists who were retired. Inequality and injustice between pensions must be resolved. One of the problems that needs to be solved by our economicly difficult tradesman and artist is that the pensions of pension workers cut 15 per cent of social security benefits from pensions. Because of his retirement work, the Social Security Agency has issued social security benefits premiums for our tradesman and artist over the years. Many tradesmen have come up with high debts that they can't handle. With this bill, the possibility of restructuring the mentioned debts continues to apply a 15 per cent social security premium from the pensioner's pension. The reason for cutting this bonus from retired employees is to open the way for young people who are expected to join the labour force. Traders and artists, however, are not workers, but employers. In other words, even though he is retired, he is in a position to offer them jobs, not block the young labor force. Therefore, receiving social security benefits from retired tradesmen and artists means that a group that provides jobs for young people should be rewarded while they should be punished. At a time when the tradesman is having trouble dealing with the current problems, this application expands its problems. Therefore, social security benefits should not be cut from the pensions of tradesmen and artists; debts related to past years must be erased. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0175par0183	Thank you, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0176par0186	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0175par0187	You have a roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Altay, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Öğdemir, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Acar, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Değirmendereli, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Güler, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Sapan, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Tayan. Initiating roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Şeker's Party's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul MP's Minister's Minister and Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Ankara's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Ankara's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Ankara's Minister's Minister's Minister's Democratic Party; Ankara's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Democratic Party; Ankara's Minister's Minister's Democratic Party; İstanbul's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Ankara's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul; Ankara's MP's MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul (HDP (HDP) Minister's Party of the Minister's Party of Parliament's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0177par0202	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0175par0203	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Izmir MP Mehmet Ali Sesam, please.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0178par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, we don't agree with the Commission and the Minister. I want to stress that they don't understand the motion they say.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0179par0209	Didn't they feel it?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0180par0210	No, he's asleep, so he's out late tonight.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0178par0211	Let me explain the motion: We are trying to bring forgiveness to the BUG-KUR. Outside of his own initiative, we're trying to bring forgiveness to those of the BUG-KUR who have been relieved of their obligations due to any shortcomings in the past, room records or tax office records. But, we say, as of 31/12/2013, all those who have paid off their debts may benefit from it. Very limited number of people. So I looked at the numbers, 1,400,000 BUG-KUR. The actual debt amount is 17 billion liras, 7 billion interest, 24 billion dollars in debt. Here, I went to the Minister and told him to change it. He pointed it out to the bureaucrats, the expression of his bureaucrats is that if we allow this kind of regression, the rooms will go to record in the old era, that's fraud, so we can't do that. I went, I looked at it, I talked to the friends who gave years at BUG-KUR, and they said, "What's really important is that if we change it like this, if we change it like this, if we change it like this -- there's no mistakes, no mistakes, no mistakes, no mistakes, no mistakes. What's that? I've put in a motion to retire him, regardless of whether or not he's registered, so let him retire, provided the due date he's invested in the BUG-KUR in the past is valid. It's so clear, so clear, and it's a motion for the benefit of the BUG-KUR, but politics, which has surrendered to bureaucracy, rejects this motion today. Bureaucracy, indeed, is already very biased about the BUG-KUR. Look, my friends just told me that BUG-KURL people are treated like second-class citizens in this institution. The minister said: "We lifted him up. How did you lift him up?" The BUG-KUR is retired in 9,000 days, while the others are retired in 7,200 days. When the BUG-KUR is working, he pays social security benefits. The salary of the BUG-KUR-KUR is less than others, although it has paid a bonus of 9,000 days -- as per price and maximum. Up until yesterday, the working woman was unable to borrow birth money, and she is now reaching the point of doing so. The BUG-KUR was not really able to borrow troops in retirement in the same way that they were at that time. For many reasons, this institution is seen as a second-class citizen. When we go to fix this, these bureaucrats say that BUG-KURL, executives of this department, if something like this were to happen, they would do the wrong thing. I refuse to do that. Harmony is a thousand years old organization, and the definition of the Constitution is this: it's a basic rule to do it with good morals and honesty in trade, art, art, and trade. A bureaucratic understanding that looks at the organization with this view cannot serve and contribute to the BUG-KUR. Those BUG-KUR are the ones who built the social security institutions that you opened. Go to Izmir Menemen, go to Izmir Payer, to Tire, to Bergama, to all his money... they made all his money, and he made all his tradesmen; and you cut the scissors, and after that you showed off, and we brought him up to life. So, I want politics to take an active stance in order to serve the BUG-KUR. I want you to take care of BUG-KUR. I want you to take care of the tradesman. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0181par0215	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the current 639 Numbered Bill of Law shall be changed to "31/12/2013" (31/12/2012) in Article 61, which envisions adding temporary material to Law 5510. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0182par0222	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0181par0223	You don't agree. Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0183par0226	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0181par0227	I'm reading the reason: With change, it is intended for more tradesmen and farmers to benefit from this practice.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0184par0230	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit06spe0181par0231	You're asking for a sufficient number of decisions. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... I'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, and the motion has been rejected. I submit the 61st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 61 is accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0181par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 124th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 639 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. We came to item 62. There are three motions on Article 62: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party of Ministers and İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's MP's Party; İstanbul MP's MP's Minister's MP's Democratic Party; İstanbul MP's Minister's MP's Democratic Party; Ottoman's Minister's MP's Party; and İstanbul's MP's MP's Minister's Minister's MP's Party; İstanbul's Democratic Party's Party; İstanbul MP's MP's MP's Democratic Party; and İstanbul's Minister's MP's Minister's MP's Party (Köçıçıçıçıçıçıçılı's Party); İstanbul's Party's Party; İstanbul's MP's Party's MP's Party's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's MP's Party; İstanbul MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Minister's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party; İstanbul MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Minister's Minister's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's MP's MP's MP's Minister's MP's Minister of İstanbul (Şııııııııı İs Minister's MP's MP's Party; İstanbul İs Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Musa Pine Hasan Kören İzzet Cetin The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 62 ▪ 5510. Although temporary Article 55 - 506 is related to the jobs which have been removed from this Law and all of the debt to the workplace is related to 31/12/2013 or a previous date, the unpaid insurance premium, unemployment insurance premium, social security benefits and administrative fine and the ruling of special laws shall be issued on the basis of an increase in education, as follows in Article 6183, from special transaction tax and stamp tax debt debt, the sum of the originals shall be paid by those who have not exceeded the sum of a hundred and twenty Turkish liras, and regardless of the amount of the originals. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm going to now read are the same property, I'm going to process them together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the 639 Numbered Bill of Law under Article 62, which envisions adding a temporary clause to Law 5510, shall be changed into "the 200 Turkish liras." İdris Bauken Erol Dora İbrahim Ayhan The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0185par0030	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0181par0031	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0186par0035	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on Article 62 of the Law on the Amendment to Article 639 of the Law and Law. I salute the General Assembly. Elections considered an integral part of democracy are expected to provide democratic life for countries, while various economic and political decisions put into place ahead of the election can have negative impacts on the country's economy. Dear lawmakers, again, we are faced with the legal provisions that the EC PARTY has brought to Parliament by a typical electoral economy. In short, we can call the economic policies of political power at election times an election economy in order to be re-elected. We know that this electoral economy, which was implemented during the election period, is being carried out mainly with pardons for public acquisitions, resulting in additional burdens on the country's economy after the election. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY government has repeatedly shown its tendency to use and evaluate its initiatives as a distinct political unfair competition to the opposition in its own political interests. Each election period brought with it the government's populist policies. The EC PARTI government goes to a number of regulations in order to look nice to the public; in order to become a populist, it tries to paint a picture of the public, as if the opposition is opposed to regulations that benefit the public. Precious lawmakers use money supplies, such as public spending, and monetary policy tools to ensure re-election of the ruling party during election times. The ruling party, which is acting on the drive to gain superiority in all elections, prefers to follow policies in line with the current programme and its goals, rather than using policies. As a result, the ruling party is focusing on vote-axised work rather than on the principle of general social benefits. Dear lawmakers, this understanding causes macroeconomic policies to become a weapon that can cause bad consequences in the power party's hands if necessary. During the election period, the government has often made promises in the waste of consumption, reducing taxes and twisting public spending towards flashy projects with immediate results. In this article, the bill will waive the collection of unpaid insurance premiums, unemployment insurance premiums, social security benefits premiums, administrative fines, contributions to education, special processing tax and stamp tax debt debts and other public loans, and the penalty for delays, delay hikes, interest payments. Of course, it is important to address the victims suffered by citizens because of the failure to pay public debts mentioned in this article. Resolving those debts will fill an important gap in the economic and sociopsychological trauma of citizens, employees, employers, and students. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to ask Mr. Finance Minister the following questions: You've carried out the same pardon practices many times since you've been in the government, but why are our citizens still unable to pay taxes? Why are our employers still unable to pay the SGK bonus debts? Why can't nearly a million college graduates pay their student loans and loans when they have to attend college? Mr. President, good lawmakers, the principle of the social state does not mean that the state should give up its public debt during election times. The social state is responsible for raising tax rates and SGK bonuses to reasonable levels, and for improving an economic standard to pay off its citizens. The problem of running unsecured workers can also be minimized. Again, the social government is tasked with creating jobs for university students. The social state does not have the right to develop practices such as foreclosures and executions for university graduates who have been left unemployed. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0187par0046	Thank you, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0188par0047	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0187par0048	Since there are two motions of the same nature, sir, I'll vote later. Mr. Longhorn, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0189par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm talking about the motion in Article 62 of a bag of legislation that's been discussed, which has actually come up with 40 articles, which are not a bill. My deepest regards to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, at the start of my speech, I would like to say that I appreciate the Prime Minister and the government very much, but this area I admire, of course, is not a very pleasant area. The Prime Minister is very scared, he manages in fear, and he manages in fear. It's something that shouldn't happen in democracies, but in a democratic regime, Mr. Prime Minister is doing it, and I appreciate it, it takes a lot of skill to manage it both by fear and by fear. Congressmans, there are operations going on in this country. Yesterday Ergenekon wanted to strike against Mr. Prime Minister, and today's arrested officers, judges, prosecutors, banished children were protecting Mr. Prime Minister, but today, those who arrested those who wanted to strike against Mr. Prime Minister today are being subjected to persecution, persecution, persecution. I wonder how the Prime Minister can live and live both of them together, how he can fool these people. The Prime Minister speaks of the spirit of the Conqueror, the spirit of the Conqueror. Dear lawmakers, Fatih has issued a Conqueror's Legislature that we all know about. In order to prevent division of the dynasty, in order to prevent the state's division, he issued a decree in response to the rule of conquest, which meant that the state's presence was a law that had given up the child for the sake of the state, a law that had given up the child for the sake of the state, that had given up the child for the sake of the state. As we come in today, operations on December 17, 25th, an operation that could mean the beginning of the fall of a lie, looting, theft empire, is being led by such a perception that the Prime Minister is sacrificing the state for the sake of his son. How does the Prime Minister manage such a contradiction? I really appreciate the Prime Minister. On November 24, 2013, the Prime Minister says: "What did I not do? " But after December 17, the congregation becomes a parallel state, the congregation becomes a coupger, and with this perception today, persecution, oppression, terror, terror, fear is at any moment threatening even the serious and honest bureaucrats of the state. Congressmans, Mr. Prime Minister gave another speech here yesterday, saying that those who failed to execute Apophis yesterday should not blame us for the terrorist organization issues. In 2002, 44 AKP MPs voted "yes" for the removal of the execution. Wasn't Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan the leader of the party when 44 AKP MPs voted yes? I wonder if he didn't control his party. Today, if we keep our President and Mr. Speaker out of the way, seven active lawmakers will say yes to the execution that day. Well, would they say yes, if the execution case came to the Parliament? Would they say yes? Let's be honest. 127 members of the National Movement Party have also said no to the death penalty, but could not afford it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, these names are out there. I don't want to talk about these names any more -- maybe -- in terms of making a person. If Mr. Prime Minister can't speak publicly to the public on August 3, 2002 as AKP's President on that day, we said that we are in favor of the removal of the death penalty, which is included in the EU integration package and is now in the Parliament regarding the removal of the death penalty. We said that on condition that such a prime minister should be granted constitutional security. The Prime Minister is afraid and afraid to rule Turkey because he knows that the day the lie will be revealed. This does not suit democracy; it does not suit the will of the MP. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I'll continue to talk to you in Article 63, and we'll discuss better things there.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0190par0062	Go, go, go.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0191par0063	Thank you, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0192par0064	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0191par0065	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0192par0066	You heard, Mr. Prime Minister is afraid and scared to run the state. CONGRATULATIONS!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0193par0068	Yeah, I appreciate that. So there's no teasing here, I appreciate it. I said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0194par0069	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0192par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, you don't have to appreciate it, I guess people appreciate it.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0195par0074	I'm a people! What kind of talk is that, Ahmet? I'm a people!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0192par0075	And in every election, people know exactly who's doing what, who's trying to do what.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0196par0076	Come on, are your people separate?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0192par0077	That's not going to happen here.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0197par0078	He steals, but he works!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0192par0079	For God's sake, are you still there?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0197par0080	That's what the public says.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0192par0081	Are you still there?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0197par0082	Of course we're there, we'll keep being there.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0192par0083	When the death penalty was issued, was there a death penalty in our laws? I did. But did you or did you not get him to postpone it? WHO lifted the death penalty? Do you have Mr. Gardeny's signature or not, it's one. Don't fool people.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0198par0086	So, Mr. Ahmet, tell us whether you say or not.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0192par0087	Our Prime Minister doesn't make politics out of fear and fear, as does no one else. He wiped out all the fears. If everyone talks about every idea freely today, it's because of the Prime Minister's democratic understanding. If everyone today is taking advantage of democracy, even the right to be ridiculous, it is a sign of the importance of the Prime Minister, the EC PARTY. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, what we said on the first day, we say the same thing today. On the first day, we are against the coup. We have always stood against the coupgers, and today we stand against the coupgers in the same way.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0199par0090	Where is he? You're February 28th!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0192par0091	Whoever was trying to do it, whoever was its source, wherever it came from, we defended it fearlessly.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0199par0092	On February 28th, you stabbed Erbakan in the back.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0192par0093	Even though we, our party, were trying to be shut down, we, despite the coup plans...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0200par0094	And don't be the focus of anti-lateral acts. And you're the focus of anti-lateral acts.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0192par0095	...we stood upright, despite the e-mails. We've always, always stood up, no matter who it comes from. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] If there's another set-up today, Mr. Prime Minister, if the country's Prime Minister can be listened to, if virtual organisations are being set up to become leaders...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0201par0098	Prime Minister of Conspiracy!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0192par0099	...today the national will is tried by various plots, if it's tried to be turned over, if it's tried to be turned over...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0201par0100	Well, well...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0192par0101	...Mr. Prime Minister, not his hand, his torso... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...put his head under the stone...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0201par0104	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0192par0105	And it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0202par0107	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0201par0108	Sir, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0202par0109	Sir, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0201par0110	He used to tease me about the right to be ridiculous.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0202par0111	I didn't quite catch that. Yeah...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0203par0112	He made some very misleading accusations, and I'd like to correct them.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0204par0113	I didn't mean personally, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0205par0114	In fact, he should be punished according to the Civil Code, but...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0206par0115	Here you go, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0207par0117	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0208par0118	Tell me about your presidential virtues.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0209par0119	Before that, they called it the coup, which is called the Kumps.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0207par0120	...politicality, of course, is a science-based thing.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0210par0121	And you speak so well, so well, so scientificly.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0207par0122	What we call a coup or revolution in a society...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0211par0123	It's not the same, you know.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0207par0124	...if there's no response, there's no social conditions, there's no coup in society.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0212par0125	Is the coup legitimate? Wait, is the coup legitimate? Don't justify the coup, please don't justify the coup.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0213par0126	It scares the hell out of people.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0207par0127	The Prime Minister has been in power for 12 years. If he's still afraid of the coup, Mr. Prime Minister, in this society, if the Prime Minister is socially afraid of a build-up, a tension, Mr. Prime Minister is already showing it in his management methods. Hold on to one of the conquerors, today's... here's what he says about the arrested police chief: he'll find his trouble, he'll find it. Throw this away. This one's gonna get his ass kicked.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0212par0128	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0207par0129	Throw him out of the paper. Let him not speak the other way. I don't need your play. Take your mother away. Is this country going to lie down and work for you?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0214par0130	Why can't you be in power?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0207par0131	Of course, you have the TVs, Mr. Prime Minister, one hour a day on TV, everyone's house. Of course... Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, I'm speaking to reasonable people, People with knowledge, knowledge, state, institution, rules, who understand them, understand them, or else they're wearing horse glasses, surrendering...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0215par0134	You're describing yourself.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0207par0135	...that instead of giving the state's office to decent people, a Prime Minister can't be a Democrat in the country, he can't be a Democrat in the country.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0216par0136	You won't do wrong, you won't betray.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0217par0137	You came, you destroyed the country, you ran away. People didn't vote for you either.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0207par0138	He came to an ambassador, an officer, because of us. lf he doesn't have the power, why bring him, Mr. Prime Minister? Is this your father's farm?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0216par0139	You will not betray, you will betray.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0207par0140	Do you run a government in that sense when you run a government...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0218par0141	At this rate, you won't even be at BDP's place in 2015.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0207par0142	...or do you choose people based on your merits, your driver's license?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0219par0143	He's the one who brought in the managers he's been running this operation with.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0218par0144	At this rate, you will not be able to replace the BDP in 2015.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0207par0145	Of course, it's a lot to discuss, but to discuss it, you have to have an opinion, a knowledge, a science.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0220par0146	Thank you, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0221par0147	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0220par0148	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0221par0149	In his speech in Aydın, Mr. Bahçeli has made a mockery of Mr. Bahçli's signature on the removal of the order.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0222par0151	I didn't say that, Mr. President, let them be honest. Let them speak straight for once! I didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0220par0152	They're signed. You said.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0221par0153	They're signed in the removal of the order..... by confiscating our party..
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0222par0154	Yes... I didn't say that it was abolition. It's signed on to postpone the death sentence.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0221par0155	No, no, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0222par0156	I didn't say abolition, get it right.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0223par0157	You have your signatures. You said, yes.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0222par0158	No, I didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0224par0159	Correction on him...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0223par0160	Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0224par0161	You've removed the execution, and now you're trying to save it. Are you a rescue party? Is the AKP a rescue party?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0225par0162	No, speak the truth, speak the truth!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0226par0163	They forged the signature, Mr. President, to replace the State Gardener!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0227par0165	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're always on our way to the rights we know, but you can't repeat false misinformation...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0228par0166	People see it all, nobody believes those stories.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0227par0167	...as German Hitler's policy applies, you're embedding false information into the nation's memory, as Goebbels did. The death penalty -- Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan sitting there on August 3, 2002 -- was lifted by the votes of the AKP MPs who are now among you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0229par0169	Talk about protocol, protocol.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0227par0170	At that time, the AKP, the National Peace Party, the Right Path Party, the Homeland Party, opposed the removal of the death penalty, only the National Movement Party. Nationalist Movement Party...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0230par0171	Check protocol, check protocol.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0229par0172	No, tell me about protocol. Try to answer him.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0227par0173	Listen, listen, listen, learn, learn the truth. The National Movement Party, yes, has made a constitutional amendment to abolish the death penalty for petty crimes in 2000. Except for the threat of terror and close war, the coalition has been eliminated by the government. He's removed everything but terror and close war.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0231par0174	Then why didn't you?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0227par0175	You have removed the balance of the death penalty from all legislation in 2002, 2004, in order to assist your PKK comrade and his prisoner, Imran.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0231par0176	Then why didn't you?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0227par0177	So speak the truth, and speak the truth, and be upright.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0232par0179	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0233par0180	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0232par0181	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0233par0182	It's Mr. Longitude, and it's the same thing, Mr....
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0232par0183	I can't hear you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0233par0184	Both Mr. Longwalk and Mr. Honey are taunting our group and our Group President again...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0234par0185	What did he say?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0232par0186	What did he say?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0233par0187	He came out with words that were different from what he told us once.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0234par0188	What did he say, sir?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0233par0189	I didn't say anything about the removal of the execution, I mentioned protocol. He twisted what I said, sir. I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0234par0191	Protocol, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0235par0192	Here you go. Fix it, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0234par0193	Is he going to fix himself, sir?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0235par0194	Let's see. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0236par0198	Thank you very much. Yeah, God knows who I'm gonna fix, and so does the public. You've got so many crooked places, I don't know where or when it's gonna be okay. On one occasion, Mr. Tallimak used this expression: ▪ If there are social conditions, the coup will take place. I don't know if you used it on purpose. Did you use it on purpose?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0237par0201	That's what science says.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0236par0202	If you've used it on purpose, it's more severe, it's much more painful, it's a coup talk.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0237par0203	It's not a coup defense to say that, Ahmadie, you'll learn it first.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0236par0204	There's never, under any circumstances, a coup-like speech. Regardless of social conditions, it's the will of the nation, the chest, the primary choice.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0237par0206	It's not a coup d'état to say that.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0236par0207	Those who can't achieve their goal by choice and by polling can perform other social conditions, those who want to make a coup can produce other sheaths, they can bring the Travel, they can bring the December 17, they can bring the December 25th, those who want to do the coup, those who want to do the coup, they can survive the pre-80 tribulations. Then are the blows legitimate? No, never and to the floor. Dear friends, we'll use it correctly; this is the first one. Secondly, I mentioned a protocol regarding the execution. If you want, I'll bring it here and show it to you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0237par0209	Show... show...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0236par0210	Under it is a protocol under which is the Garden of Eden, under which is the Ecevit, and under which is the signature of Mesut Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0238par0211	Well, that's good, so that's bad? Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0236par0212	When it's the death penalty, when it happens, I'm asking if you wanted that sentence suspended before it's even lifted. I'm not saying good or bad, so don't twist it.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0239par0213	It's not a postponement. It's not a postponement.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0236par0214	Don't twist it, I was just trying to express it. Again, dear friends, if it weren't for the foreign policy of the AK PARTY, if it weren't for the success of the AK PARTY governments...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0239par0216	What kind of success?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0236par0217	For the first time in the world, would the Secretary General of the Islamic Conference be a Turk? It wouldn't.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0240par0218	Hopefully, he'll be president now!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0236par0219	For the first time, would the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe be a Turk? No. He's become our congressman. What made it happen? Who made it happen?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0240par0221	It'll be because of the nation, President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0236par0222	The foreign policy of the EC PARTY was the result of the AK PARTY governments.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0241par0224	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0242par0225	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0241par0226	Here you go, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0242par0227	He made a very misunderstanding speech, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group. Just because the social conditions set up the coup doesn't mean I'm legitimizing the coup, and it's not a coup d'état. That's what science says. If the tension in the layers of society has reached that point, the unrest in the layers of society has become a social demand. That doesn't mean I see the blow legitimately. I want to explain, I must...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0243par0228	But you encourage, you encourage.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0244par0229	It's important...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0242par0230	It's important.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0245par0231	Right. Here you go, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0246par0233	When you say "right," is it true in terms of "rey," or is it the bride?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0245par0234	I said it's the right thing to say.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0246par0235	All right, then.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0245par0236	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0247par0238	Dear lawmakers, if there is no such thing in the society's demands for certain layers of society, if there is no right, it will not happen.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0248par0239	So the travel thing was right then?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0247par0240	Look, I don't want you to... if you listen, you'll understand. I mean, we've seen the tyranny of the coup. You were in shorter pants back then. We've paid the future price, the future price, don't worry about those jobs.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0249par0241	Is that what you call a congressman, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0247par0242	Dear lawmakers, scientificly saying that the coup has become a demand in a scientific society does not mean defending the coup attempt or legitimizing the coupger.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0250par0243	What blow is scientific? A scientific coup?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0247par0244	I'm one of the lawmakers who suffered the most from the coup. So... Read some.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0250par0246	Thanks to you, we'll find out.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0247par0247	You read it, you learn it, and when you do, you're right; you're looking at things with blinders like that.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0250par0248	You're always talking about the coup.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0247par0249	Dear lawmakers, with this perception management in Turkey, you're already leading a virtual world that is never, ever real to the Turkish nation. You're afraid for him, and the day the truth comes out, you'll be wiped out.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0250par0250	When will the truth come out?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0247par0251	Look, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group talks so inexperiencedly, it's protocol, not protocol. Instead of waiting in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, a decision was made to wait in the prime minister's office, that's what Mr. Deputy President of the Group said.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0251par0252	What does that mean?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0252par0253	Look, here's the protocol.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0247par0254	So, I'm asking the Turkish people something bold, and I'm asking them, if the AKP had said yes to the death sentence in 2002, would Apo have said yes to the execution of Apoko?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0251par0255	Weren't you in charge then?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0247par0256	A party that said yes to the lift of the death sentence, we said yes in 2003. Would a president say yes to the execution of Apoh?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0253par0257	Look at the MHP.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0247par0258	Be honest, honest. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We said, "Don't get up." We said, "Yes," and we'll keep saying, "Yes."
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0254par0263	Thank you, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0255par0265	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0254par0266	Mr. Honey, what do you say? I think the answer's been answered enough.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0255par0267	And by me, I'm going to make you all crooked, where you're going to be fixed.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0254par0269	Wait a minute... if I could hear... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0255par0271	When Mr. Aydın came to the stand to answer, I would like to speak to him about bullying me and the government of that date, which is all crooked, where you will be rectified.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0254par0272	And lastly, I promise you, and I will not have this conversation again... please, I beg you, don't make any more threats.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0255par0274	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we follow the right path, and we tell what we know directly. We're not in the habit of mixing up old books when the day comes, like mufli merchants.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0256par0275	There's bullying on the CHP!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0255par0276	I'll come to the foreign trader after I've made it clear. The European Court of Human Rights passed jurisdiction in 1993. Then no MHP. If the European Court of Human Rights has been granted jurisdiction in a state that has adopted the rule of law in the state of law, then the government must obey it. Therefore, the European Court of Human Rights has issued a decision to halt the death penalty of Abdullah Ocalan, who was sentenced to death as director of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0257par0279	You didn't hang him then!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0255par0280	If it were you, wouldn't you? I don't intend to...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0258par0281	There's been no decision...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0255par0282	Listen, listen, listen... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] He intends to...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0259par0285	They're talking to themselves!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0255par0286	The decision to postpone... There is no such decision. Shut up!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0260par0289	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0255par0290	Mr. President, allow me to speak and correct my time.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0261par0291	Wait a minute... we can't hear you, sir... You guys go ahead and talk.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0255par0293	Correct my time, sir, my time...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0261par0294	Please, it will be understood if you listen quietly.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0255par0295	Mr. President, he's running out of time for me. Two minutes, anyway.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0261par0296	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0255par0297	What am I supposed to talk about in two minutes?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0261par0298	You guys go ahead.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0255par0299	My dear friends, this is a court of caution. This precautionary decision has to be obeyed in the state of law. But when we came to the mufli merchants, I would hang them if I were you. The Prime Minister says, "Now, what right does he have to send officers from among you to Imralı, under your command? You've forgotten the words you said about some terrorists kissing on the mountain, but the Turkish nation has not forgotten.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0261par0302	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0255par0303	The way you walk...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0262par0304	They've all been your comrades in the presidential election!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0255par0305	Condemned to terror, delivered to terror.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0263par0307	Thank you. I submit two motions of the same nature to your votes...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0264par0312	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0263par0313	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. Are there 139 people? I can't see them right now, but they're coming from backstage. Let's do it electronically.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0265par0317	Sir, close the doors, see if it's true.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0266par0318	Do you close the door for the congressman?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0263par0319	I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0267par0322	There's 40 of them, sir. How many, sir?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0263par0323	Motion denied.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0267par0324	How many?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0263par0325	We don't know that, sir. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Cet and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel; İstanbul MP İzzet Baluken; Ankara MP Sena Kala; İstanbul MP Şekerı's Party's Party; İstanbul MP and İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party of Parliament; İstanbul MP İsktay Çekılı; İstanbul's Party's MP's Democratic Party's Party; İstanbul MP İsıt Tuzel; İstanbul's Minister's Party of Parliament; İstanbul's Party's Minister and İstanbul's MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Çağalıpıpım Çağal; İstanbul's Party; İstanbul's İstanbul's Minister's Democratic Party; İstanbul's MP's Democratic Party (TK) and İstanbul MP's MP's Party (TK) MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Democratic Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Democratic Party's Party (TK MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Party's Party's Party's MP's Party's MP's MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends The following temporary clause is added to Law 62-5510. INTERVIEW 55-506, and the total payment period of the loan to the workplace is 31/12/2013, or on a previous date, but is due to unpaid insurance premiums, unemployment insurance premiums, social security benefits and administrative fines, and the amount of education followed under the provisions of the Special Law 6183 shall be reduced, regardless of the amount of the amount of debt due to special transaction tax and stamp tax debts. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0268par0333	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0263par0334	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0269par0335	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0263par0336	On the motion, Edirne MP Kemal Millendereli. Here you go, Mr. Milldere.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0270par0339	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the esteemed lawmakers on Job Act 639 and to Reconstruct some of the proceeds. I salute the High Council. Congressmans, with this bill, we need to see that the markets that are locked, especially small and medium-scale companies, are being introduced, and the bills that the taxpayers can breathe a little bit, but as a matter of fact, this bill, in fact, is a bill that is more than a realistic measure of economic convenience, we need to see that these small and medium-sized enterprises, beyond opening the way for the taxpayers, are a bill to clear the way for the Chankaya journey. Now, I want to highlight one thing very carefully: I mean, the ruling party executives who come up here or in different environments are always saying that the economy is going very, very well, flying, but in 2011, with Law 6111, we've reconstructed debt, but three years later, we've entered such a need again. So the markets are really bleeding, and it's the right thing to take these measures for that, but it's not right, it's not the economy. So let me give you another example of the numbers of Mr. Finance Minister, and I'd like to share one issue: a 100-dollar configuration, a 100-dollar configuration that has occurred in configurations based on 6111, and so far, 52-53 lira has arrived. So nearly half of them have been on this journey for three years, so in these three years, the economy has been very, very good, these people have stumbled and this need has arisen again. Now, dear lawmakers, I would like to stress that these arrangements are positive, but there is a significant lack here. The fact that the farmers' debts are not evaluated, that they are not structured, that the contributions to farmers -- in fact, during the AKP's rule -- have not been established -- are the ones that they will take the necessary breath to the most victims. Now the market prices, which are here to divide our farmer with the world's markets, are very difficult for farmers to make a living. And as we experienced in Edirne, which happened last year -- natural disasters, floods, floods, droughts, and our farmers were in a much more difficult situation. Last Monday, we had a proposal to set up a research commission for the flood in Edirne. After my speech, two valued AKP MPs, Mr. Tülay Kaynarca and Mr. Ramadan Can, on the damage and measures taken here, expressed that they understood the commitment of the situation in the region and that it would be appropriate to arrange a bag of the farmer's debts to be postponed instead of the commission. They also stated that Monday's Council of Ministers will consider the matter. I'm very pleased with that, too, to be honest. However, as far as I'm concerned, we have determined that Mr. Health Minister Muezzinoglu of Edirne did not bring up such a matter. If we're wrong, if there's a precaution taken, I'll consider myself happy. Dear lawmakers, in Edirne, and in all parts of the country, it will be a great and important contribution to our farmers in this bill to delay the debt of our farmers to agricultural loans and to the Agriculture Bank, without interest. Thank you, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0271par0349	Thank you, Mr. Millerdere. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 62nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 62nd article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 63: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's [[1/931, 2/195, 2/195, 2/28297, 2/298, 2/324, 2/368, 2/399, 2/434, 2/439, 2/453, 2/524, 2/528, 2/601, 2/640, 2/689, 2/691, 2/798, 2/885, 2/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/14, 2/14/24, 2/14/24, 2/14, 2/24, 2/24, 2/14/14/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/12/14/14/14/24, 2/14/24, 2/14/14/14/24, 2/24, 2/14/24/24/24/24/24/2/24/24, 2/24/24/24/24/24/24, 2/24, 2/14/24/24/24/24, 2/14/24, 2/24, 2/24, 2/12, 216/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/14/14/14/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/14/14/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24, 224, 212, 216, 224/24, 216, 216, 224/12/14/12, 216, 216/14/14/14/14/14/14/24, 224/14/14/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/24/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/14/24]] We offer and propose that Article 63 be changed in the following form. Erkan Akçay Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 63-5530. INTERVIEWED MADDE 56 - Those who have not used the right to apply during the foreseeable period of the application of Article 44 or temporary 51 are granted temporary provisions of Article 44 if they apply for the institution as of the date the clause is in effect. If they borrow the entire or part of the debt paid by those who have paid for it in accordance with the 17th article of the temporary article, they will be returned to them without interest in the amount of the amount of pension and the amount they have already invested in the public administration, which they have already invested under Article 44, if they do not pay for it, within the six months following the report to the public administration of which they have already worked or the latest public service. The tenth joke of the temporary 4th article, the temporary Article 44, the temporary Article 51, and the amount of service taken as a loan under this clause, and all of the deadlines which have been paid in accordance with the other insurance status of these articles are considered to have been passed according to the title they had last worked on, according to the title of the long-term insurance wards.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0272par0365	It was pronounced Law No. 5530, but it had to be 5510.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0273par0366	Sehven... Let's put it on the record.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0271par0367	It's probably all right, sir. [[The motion continued to read by Clerk Member Mine Lök White]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added after the last joke to Article 63, which stipulates to add a temporary clause to Law 5510 of the 639 Numbered Bill. "It also includes 28/02/1989 and 28/02/1996." İdris Bauken Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Dikal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Izzet Çetin's Party; Ankara MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu; İstanbul MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyelılılılı MP İzlı İzlı İztay Kılı; İstanbul MP İztay Çekıçı; İstanbul MP İncın's Party; İstanbul MP İncı's Party; İstanbul MP İncımım İçı and İstanbul's MP İçı Akçı MP İçı MP İçıçıçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul Çaçı Akçı Başıı MP İsılıılı; İstanbul MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsıçıçıçıçı MP İsı MPı MP İçııııı MP İsı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııılıııııııııılılılı MPı MPıçıçıçıçı MPıçı MPı MPı MPıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPııııııııııııııııııııııııııılılılılılılılılı MPıı MPılı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılı MP and İstanbul MPı MPı MPılılılılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPı MPı MPıııııııılıılılılılılılılılılılı We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Does the commission agree with my latest motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0274par0383	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0271par0384	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0275par0385	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0271par0386	Ardahan MP Ensar Öğün. Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0276par0389	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a promise on the law of bag number 639. I salute all of you and all of our fellow citizens who follow us. Dear friends, before the bag bill, I saw a decision made today, the Minister of Agriculture made a decision today, bringing imported meat from Bosnia and Herzegovina, 15,000 tons. So in the holy month of Ramadan, just as it was entering the Feast of Sacrifice, the farmers actually broke the back of the farmer and the farmer, when they were about to smile and sell their cattle and take a few pennies of money to buy the child's child's child's child's child's child's alimony. I'm going to give my big speech about this tomorrow on a motion from the National Movement Party, but now I'm moving on to the bag of legislation. Dear friends, there's an arrangement on the bag bill for February 28th. They've arranged for these February 28 victims three times, and I just got off the phone with the Minister. Now, here, Minister, on May 31, 2008 at Law 5510 and Social Insurance Association, the rights of the victims were granted according to the disciplinary legislation they were subject to between 23/4/1999 and 14/2/2005 in Article 44 of the interim clause discussed. The second time, in three months, the applicants were given the rights. Again, in the bag law of 4/7/2012, the same rights in section 47 of bag number 6353 again benefit the 28 Februaryers if they apply within three months. Thank God Mr. Izzet Cetin was an expert on this matter, so we sat down last night and talked, and it's true, we found out. And now it's the third time in law number 639, but there's more. So here -- I'm sorry -- the ruling party scored a goal. The MHP, the People's Democratic Party, and they've got us, they've scored for all of us. Why did they score?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0277par0393	What goal?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0278par0394	What goal?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0276par0395	Yeah. This clause was not accepted when the Plan and Budget Commission discussed this law. Is it true, Mr. Izzet? When the plan and budget discussed this, they said, "No, we're entitled to it twice." Now, for God's sake, other than the February 28th...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0278par0396	I'm saying they fouled him.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0276par0397	Yeah, they're fouling. They played us here, and they brought us in as pirates. I figured it out. They brought him in as a pirate, for the third time. So it's okay, it's true; let's get rid of one victim, if there's a victim of February 28th, but we've passed it twice with a bag of law, both in 2005 and in 2012. Now he's coming in 2014. All right, let's bring it to the victims of September 12th. What about the rights of those who served five years without question, including Mehmet Haberal Hajji, Ergenekon and Sledgehammer? We've got the chosen ACK people, we've got the other victims. Guys, if we're doing this victimology literature, then let's bring it to all the victims. When we don't bring it to all the victims, only when we bring it to February 28th, that law is lame. Mr. Secretary, I beg you, accept this motion and please remove the non-infinity clause from this budget. If it is to be done, bring it to the other victims, including the victims of September 12th, including the sledgehammers, the Ergenekons, and let's all go through this together and all Turkey relax, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0279par0400	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added after the last joke to Article 63, which stipulates to add a temporary clause to Law 5510 of the 639 Numbered Bill. "It also includes 28/02/1989 and 28/02/1996." Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0280par0408	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0279par0409	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0281par0410	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0279par0411	Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0282par0412	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on Article 63 of the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Legislatures of the Law 639. I salute the General Assembly. Retireds are at the top of the most promised parts of the EC PARTY during 12 years of power, but in parallel with this one. On this occasion, we must address the problems of pensioners. We're looking at another retirement story that the EC PARTY government hopes for as a pre-election trump card and attaches the bag to the law. Unfortunately, the pre-election laws do not produce radical solutions to pensioners' rights, which are given the next election address for the solution to these problems. However, in the AK PARTI administration, if we look right from the time it completed its ten years, the problem of the pension, the biggest problem of pensions, is as clear as day. In July 2012, the SEC pensioner's salary was raised to $885, and in January 2013, it was raised to 922 TL ($922) with a raise that could not produce any concrete progress for a livelihood such as 37 TL. As we look at the rising daily consumption prices in the same period, the situation of the SEC pensioners is evident. In the same way, BUG-KUR pensioners have spent their lives working hard and have always worked harder to get comfortable during retirement. At the same time, the AK PARTY government raised its pension to 717 TL, with a raise to BUG-KUR pensioners, and the increase was only $20. At the same time, the raise to a pensioner was only $33. The EC PARTY has promised 10 elections and pensioners before each election, but has revealed its approach to pensioners by not finding any solution. It is also clear that the EC PARTI government for the problems of pensioners is producing policies over irresolvability, which is the clearest sense of retirement. The pensioners wanted to announce their voices to the government until the hunger strike, but the AKP government has become deaf to this part of society, so to speak. In addition, the situation of pensioners today is clear, and the demands of pensioners and what needs to be done are clear. First, pensioners must not receive contributions to health care. This will result in a reduction in pensioners' expenses as well as the need for social government policy in health policies. Many of our retired citizens are having trouble making a living today. In order for this to be resolved, our retired citizens will have to go back inside the labor force. The social injustice system, which does not provide for pensioners, cuts from working pensioners. The social benefits of pensioners we can't afford must be lifted. We all know that many of our retired citizens' children go to colleges. Retired children must be granted a free scholarship as long as they study in college. As a result, I believe the government, which puts firms on the agenda for tenders, government aid, and so on, should have pensioners on the agenda, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0283par0421	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends The following temporary clause is added to Law 63-5510. INTERVIEWED MADDE 56 - Those who have not used the right to apply during the foreseeable period of the application of Article 44 or temporary 51 are granted temporary provisions of Article 44 if they apply for the institution as of the date the clause is in effect. We offer and propose that Article 63 be changed in the following form. If they borrow the entire or part of the debt paid by those who have paid for it in accordance with the 17th article of the temporary article, they will be returned to them without interest in the amount of the amount of pension and the amount they have already invested in the public administration, which they have already invested under Article 44, if they do not pay for it, within the six months following the report to the public administration of which they have already worked or the latest public service. The tenth joke of the temporary 4th article, the temporary Article 44, the temporary Article 51, and the amount of service taken as a loan under this clause, and all of the deadlines which have been paid in accordance with the other insurance status of these articles are considered to have been passed according to the title they had last worked on, according to the title of the long-term insurance wards. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0284par0432	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0283par0433	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0285par0434	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0283par0435	Mr. Tallermak, may I have your attention, Mr. Hamzacebi has entered the system and has requested an explanation. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0286par0437	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, on the motion we made regarding Article 63, our Ardahan MP Mr. Ensar Öğüt spoke, and after the speech, our motion was submitted. The motion was denied. I'd like to explain our view of the matter once again. Article 63 of February 28 has allowed those who have been suspended due to disciplinary sentences after February 28th, to be able to return with a law issued in 2005, to be able to borrow their time in the open. We find this arrangement positive as a rule, but what we don't find positive, what we disagree with is that the victim of the victim is not only February 28th, there are not only victims of the coup; there are victims of September 12th, there are victims of March 12th. This is where I condemn the notion that February 28th was a coup, that March 12th and September 12th were not a coup, and that they did not see their victims as victims of a coup. This is the AKP's error in this article. I want to express it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0287par0441	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Longhorn, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0288par0444	Thank you, Mr. President. How would you describe today's administration, success or failure? If they say to me, "Mahir is a government." In what field? He's very good at covering up big sins with small favors. That's the way it is in every field. There's so much brainwashing every day that the press is broadcast. The late Necip Fazil says: ▪ Nine for one, one for nine. The wolf wouldn't do that if he could control the lambs. Now, when I look at our citizens awaiting the content of this bill brought by the government, the number of poor citizens is so much, but the amount they're going to benefit from is so little -- including their debts -- but there are so many benefits to the supporters of power, and some administrative structures that make power so strong that the path to fascism opens up. I mean, when you look at it, the country's economy is going smoothly, although we've fallen down in rankings, but Turkey has risen under perception management. Dear lawmakers, if there was an economy that was going so smoothly, how many times has the tax, the insurance, the restructuring of the debt of the citizens been made? That's an injustice, that's an inequality. Is he an honest-paying, decent-paying, timely citizen a sucker or a fool? How can he treat a citizen like that and repeat it over and over again? And why wouldn't the citizen stand up to this government? So, as I just said, politics, brainwashing are being implemented so successfully that it's being manipulated into believing. The citizen is being deceived.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0289par0452	You think people are stupid?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0288par0453	You're being tricked, too, and you wouldn't act like this if you weren't fooled.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0289par0454	You're gonna believe people, people.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0288par0455	Now to touch the prime minister, who says it's worship, is the MP at this party.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0289par0456	People don't believe you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0288par0457	He carries all the qualities of Allah above him, Prime Minister. He is the MP at this party.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0289par0458	People are way smarter than you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0288par0459	He made a mistake in the conquest of the Prophet Mecca. He is the minister of this party. Our mercy is greater than our wrath. He was the minister of this government, who said, "Let's reel it in, we're throwing it out, we're making a joke."
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0289par0460	Go, go.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0288par0461	Dear lawmakers, today there is an opinion in the public, see in the citizen: "Yahu, they steal, but they also do business."
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0290par0462	They don't say that at all.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0289par0463	It's your passion.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0288par0464	Now, look at the citizen, they're stealing, but they're doing the job. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, where is this Muslimism? Where is such a government, such a government? The Prime Minister began his speech in announcing his presidential candidacy with the verse "God." Honorable MPs, of course, if the property is God's...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0291par0467	If God owns the property, what is it? It's already Allah's.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0288par0468	Which begins with that verse, which begins with that belief... if you could write down the Prime Minister's contradictions so far, believe me, it would be a novel, and if you never get tired of reading it every day.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0292par0469	People get it, people.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0288par0470	Look, if the property is starting to talk to God. If it's starting to speak to the verse, you don't see the government executives you bring as a favor, you see them as a man of justice, so you don't rub it in, it's as if it's a gift, so there's no good faith coming out of this place, but it's just what, Mr. Prime Minister, when you're running the state, it's not defined, it's not running them, it's not running them, it's not running them, it's not giving up to you, it's not giving up, it's not turning a democracy out of this place, it's not just a good faith, but what? The abuser, the religion, the faith, the deception, everything. I'm saying something that's going to cause a lot of controversy. Today, Turkey has become that, at some point, the sincere Muslims -- when these abuses occur -- will define itself as one of those Muslims. It came to that point when Marks said... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that religion is opium. You have brought Islam to the point where you use it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0293par0475	Thank you, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0294par0476	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0293par0477	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0294par0478	I don't know what part of the congressman's speech is going to sound right, but they're stealing, but they're also working. He said something called the AK PARTY lawmakers accused them of stealing their power.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0293par0479	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0295par0481	I've spoken the public opinion.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0294par0484	Blessed day, at this hour, we may find a time when the mind, the brain, is a little constipated. (APPLAUSE) Because it's really hard to say things like this at these times, to bring things up, to say things like this, but the people say, "You're all thieves, you're stealing." Starting with an accusation, especially on this blessed day and with these verses, if the property is God's, then it might be a slip of the tongue to speak for him here in this process.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0295par0485	No, my tongue didn't slip. Elitaş, my tongue never slipped.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0294par0486	It's a slip of the tongue, if you read it. Look, Apo was captured during the 57th Government.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0295par0488	Well, never mind the 57th government, what are you going to do?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0294par0489	You told me. And they brought him, and delivered him, and gave him.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0295par0491	He was not caught in the 57th government.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0294par0492	He was caught in the 56th government, and on his way to the 57th government, they said, "The Karason has caught this, and the MHP people are men, and he hangs it up." But you flinched, that's the issue.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0295par0493	No way! For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0296par0494	He can show you he's out if you want!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0295par0495	I'm going to ask Faruk Çelik.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0297par0496	Faruk Bey knows that too.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0295par0497	You don't know because you're a beginner, because you don't live that time.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0297par0498	During the Party of Virtue, you know how it is. They're men, they'll catch it. He said. You stood up and said, "This is how you do it. He has two ministers of the government, the 57th government. When there is an issue with the 57th Government, they come here all the time, and the government of the 57th says, "We defend it." Look, you...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0295par0499	You weren't there, so what are you going to do? I was here then.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0297par0500	You were here.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0295par0501	I was here.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0297par0502	If the late Mehmet Gul were to get up, if the Justice Commission had the language of the walls, he could tell us about the seven-hour speech on the removal of the execution, the time he spent convincing Mr. Bahçlı Mehmet Gül.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0298par0503	Even with the tongue of that chair, Prime Minister Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0297par0504	You can't lie to me.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0298par0505	...voting for the removal of my sentence...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0299par0506	Tell me the truth!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0297par0507	Why did you stop to stay in power then?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0299par0509	The votes are here, the votes are here.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0297par0510	Is the chair too comfortable? Why didn't you resign from power? Why didn't you leave the coalition? I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0300par0512	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0301par0514	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0300par0515	Here you go, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0301par0516	He's been picking on a congressman with brain constipation and everything, Congressman, and I want to fix it.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0302par0517	He must have had diarrhea. He's got some diarrhea.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0303par0518	Some of them have diarrhea, some of their brains are constipated.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0302par0519	His brain's got diarrhea, his brain's run down!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0304par0520	Here you go, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0305par0522	Now, the glass house won't rock someone else's window. Mr. Secretary, did you or did you not vote yes for the removal of the execution? The votes are here, the votes are here!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0306par0524	Yeah, let them answer for stealing, corruption, forget it.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0305par0525	The AKP said yes to the removal of the execution with 44 MPs.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0307par0526	You are the government, the government.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0305par0527	Let's be clear, Mr. Elitaş. I was an MP in the 21st term, and I was here, and I'm here.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0308par0528	I don't know how you can talk without being bored!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0305par0529	Regarding the removal of the execution, the AKP Group all voted yes; the Prime Minister's statement is here.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0309par0530	Were you or weren't you? If the government doesn't sit there, that law won't be spoken of.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0305par0531	We were one-third partners in the government. Wait a minute... we were one-third partners in the government. The signing of the matter in order to discuss the law on the removal of the execution does not mean voting yes, nor does it mean voting yes.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0309par0532	Mr. Tallırmak, if the government doesn't sit there, the law will not be discussed.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0305par0533	To vote for the bill's transfer to Parliament, to sign the bill's transfer to Parliament, to ignore the vote the MPs made in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, to bend, to lie and drink.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0309par0534	If he doesn't sit there, that law won't be discussed.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0305par0535	So, the votes are here, the users, the non-users, what voted here, about the execution.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0310par0536	So, where's everybody's vote? Except the chest.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0305par0537	As for the constipation of the brain, we thank God for everything, his faith, his faith, his faith, his behavior, his view of the future, his insight into the Turkish nation and Turkish nationalism, who have no concern about his behavior, but you go through those diseases, which you might think others have experienced, too. Hence, making such a determination requires, of course, something that has already occurred to you. Don't worry, you won't have to go through those traumas because you've been through it. You won't live in our power. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0310par0539	You don't have a chance to be in power. Guys, you've hit rock bottom!
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0311par0540	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. 4-Current of Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; Ankara MP Izzet Çetin; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party Deputy MP Oktay Köçal; İstanbul MP Sena Kallıtı's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Balukı; İstanbul MP İzken's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Çeçı; Ankara MP İzket Balukı's Party's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Democratic Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP İdıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK) and İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK). Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party of Konya Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law's Decisions, Oktay Ökki's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and İzmir MP Oktay Öçalalalı; Heromarash MP Mesut Akçayoğlu's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Party's Party; Mehmet Milliş's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister and the Minister's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Party's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's The Parliamentary Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Party of Ministers and the Party of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Party of Ministers and the Party of Ministers and the Party of Ministers and the Minister of Ministers and the Minister of Ministers and the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of Ministers and the Minister of Ministers and the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament and the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament and the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament and the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament and the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament and the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of Parliament and the Minister of the Minister of the Council of the Parliament and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Parliament and the Council of Parliament and the Council of Parliament and the Council of the Council of the Council of Parliament and the Council of Parliament and the Council of Parliament and the Council of Parliament and the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0312par0541	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0311par0542	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Number: 639) [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... No, it doesn't. [[There's an AK PARTY line, there's a voice.]] We're voting electronically. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, and the motion has been rejected. I submit Article 63 to your votes: Those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 63 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 64: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Numbered Bill of Law, which is currently in session, shall be replaced by the term "six months" in Article 64, which stipulates the interim application of Article 5510. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalayca Alim Light The following temporary clause is added to the Law 64 - 5510. IN THE third joke of Article 57 - 8, and in the first joke of Article 9 (b) for those mentioned in the third verse of Article 9, the obligations specified in Article 9 and the obligations laid out in Article 11 and the obligations laid out in the third and sixth part of the article are not fulfilled within the period of the period of six months. The administrative fines imposed on these obligations are abandoned, regardless of whether or not they are finalised, but are not charged with rejection or extradition. The first joke of the 5th article (e) has been issued in accordance with the law concerning the insurance holders, which should be submitted by law, and the document shall be given within the legal period of the period of six months if the clause is given from the date of its execution. The administrative fines imposed on these obligations are abandoned, regardless of whether or not they are finalised, but are not charged with rejection or extradition. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this substance are determined by the Institution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu's Party's Party of Justice and Minister of Law; İstanbul MP İzklı İzket Çeçı's Party; Ankara MP İzlı and İstanbul's Party's Minister's Democratic Party's Minister's Democratic Party; Ankara MP's Democratic Party of Turkey's Democratic Party of Turkey; Ankara MP İzçı İztay Çeçeçı, İstanbul's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İncın İçe Çeçıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İncıçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara's Party's Party's Party's Party (TK) and Ankara MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Party's Party's Party's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party (TK of Parliament (HDP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. Vacay Selects Izzet Cetin Sedef Small Mehmet Ali Sesam Kemal Millendereli Rahmi Love Türeli Does the commission agree with my latest motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0313par0581	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0311par0582	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0314par0583	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0311par0584	Edirne MP Kemal Millendereli. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0315par0587	Mr. President, my speech on the 62nd Amendment was that a significant lack of this bill was not structured by farmers' debt, that a special application was not given to them. Now, in this proposal, let's say, let's subtract the number 64. So that's why the $617 million budget was going to lose. I mean, the authorities are willing to risk that kind of damage. But, again, it's an important flaw that we haven't dealt with the extraordinary problems of these farmers. Because farmers' product prices are under pressure. Splitting relations in agriculture are changing in favor of capital. The small and middle peasant group is melting. There's a transformation from the Agha's mahogany to the company's mahogany. Agricultural support and institutions are being destroyed. Imports are increasing year-on-year in agricultural products. In my speech earlier, I said, it was a great loss, either in Edirne, or in other parts of the country, not opening the doors of the Earth's crop office, but not taking the wheat. The flood that we experienced in Edirne made the wheat that they store in people's fields, in their gardens, become a feeder. Look, I want to give you a number: the office hasn't been opened, but there are 200,000 tons of production in Longöpru district of Edirne. Only 21,000 tons, 180,000 tons, the merchant can buy, in the hands of the farmer, in his warehouse, in his garden. But he opened the office doors a few days ago. But there's a good saying: the frog's eye explodes until the water comes to the creek. I mean, people couldn't pay their debts, their debt, their debt, their investment-term debt, and they're in a lot of trouble. Dear friends, this Land Protection Act that we've issued in the past month has forbidden the sale of land under 130 acres. On top of that, the villagers, who had an investment-term debt, had a surprise like this when they went to the deed, at least to dig up the field. And it's very important that we bring some ease into it. Another very important issue: Again, the debt of watering cooperatives, which are structured with Law 6111, is not being dealt with here. Despite the fact that we've brought this up in the plan and budget, this proposal has not been accepted. But, again, I'll just give you an example of the Edirne scale: it's $350,000 in debt today, along with the interest of a cooperative who owes $34,000. A cooperative unit with $4 million in debt is now in debt to $30 million. I mean, the farmer doesn't have a chance to pay for it, not by this hour. Therefore, really, it would be important to overcome the problem with a new substance. Because it's very important that we support the farmer and support him to produce, to produce sustainable agriculture, to prevent our daily increase in agricultural products imports. This is also very important in reducing our external dependence on agricultural products. Therefore, I would like to ask for the support of the ruling party's lawmakers in this matter, and I would like to extend my regards to the High Council.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0316par0595	Thank you, Mr. Millerdere.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0317par0596	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit07spe0316par0597	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger. Closing Time. 18.53
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0316par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 124th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The decision of Edirne MP Kemal Millendereli and his friends' motion was not sufficient on the 64th Article of the Law Bill 639. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I'll have the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party for Law and Law's Movement; İstanbul MP's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Party; Mehmet Milliş's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Milliş's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's; Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı and MHP Group Chair MP Oktay Ökalal; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and MHP Group MP Izkı MP Oktay Ökal; MP Sadi Durmaz and MP Izklı İzki MP Oktay Sakal; İstanbul MP İzmarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu and MP Erkan Akçay; MP Mustafa Kalajcı and MP MHP Çakımımım Köçı; Minister of the Minister's Minister's Minister and Minister of the Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister and Minister's Minister's Minister of the Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister of the Minister's Party (Es Democratic Party) and Akkıkıkıkıpıpıkıpıpı's Minister of the Minister's Minister of the Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister and Minister's Minister's Minister of the Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister of the Minister's Minister's Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends The following temporary clause is added to the Law 64 - 5510. IN THE third joke of Article 57 - 8, and in the first joke of Article 9 (b) for those mentioned in the third verse of Article 9, the obligations specified in Article 9 and the obligations laid out in Article 11 and the obligations laid out in the third and sixth part of the article are not fulfilled within the period of the period of six months. The administrative fines imposed on these obligations are abandoned, regardless of whether or not they are finalised, but are not charged with rejection or extradition. The first joke of the 5th article (e) has been issued in accordance with the law concerning the insurance holders, which should be submitted by law, and the document shall be given within the legal period of the period of six months if the clause is given from the date of its execution. The administrative fines imposed on these obligations are abandoned, regardless of whether or not they are finalised, but are not charged with rejection or extradition. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this substance are determined by the Institution. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0318par0016	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0316par0017	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0319par0018	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0316par0019	Mr. Belen, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0320par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the amendment motion made by the National Party for Movement on Article 64 of Law Bill 639, which is being discussed. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, we've been working on a law that's actually turned into soup, which has been called intensively for over a week. We stand against the things that are in this bag, against our people, against the people, against the people, against the people, against the poolers, and for the benefit of the nation. Forgiveness for the debt of our citizen's state is, of course, the practice that we support, but it is also necessary to encourage citizens who have done their duty to their state on time, as well as these kind of ease brought to the citizen. And how should that be? As you know, our citizens who pay their social security premiums on time are given a 5% discount on the insurance premium of the month. This practice is welcomed by employers, and many employers benefit from it, but it is not in our tax system. Bringing such an application into our tax system will bring with it a positive development and please the taxpayers. That way, we can reward the tax-paying citizen and collect some of the government's proceeds on time. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, 12 years of AKP governments have not been able to follow a consistent and healthy personnel policy in public during this time. The government's personnel and wage policy failed and has victimised hundreds of thousands of our citizens. We are employees of the public who have been known to have the highest rights of 12 years, called ▪4/CLI. The personnel of 4/C are deprived of their economic and social rights to the same job and the same task. Even in parliament, many of our friends who work overtime with us, who help us, are also separated by the ▪4/Cίli (,,,,,) and are deprived of economic and social rights. Even though they do the same job, there's a gap between their wages and other social rights. The government has kept our subcontractors waiting and waiting, with various promises, today or tomorrow. However, arrangements for the subcontractor work system in the bag we are discussing are both incomplete and not affordable. The public has been given insufficient rights to subcontractors, while subcontractors in the private sector have been ignored in this bill. On the other hand, as I mentioned earlier, the bonus has completed its days and years, but no arrangement has been able to cure the problems of our citizens, who can't retire, who are known as pensioners. One of our country's biggest problems is unemployment. Twelve years of power have failed to sign any structural reform on the removal of unemployment in Turkey. The AKP has taken no measures regarding the intermediary that the industrial sector needs. At this point, 20 per cent of our unemployed citizens in Turkey are unemployed with a university degree. After graduating from university, an important part of our young people who have found employment are either working in the field or in a lower level of work that has nothing to do with their graduating degree. As the National Movement Party, we call on our young people once again to reconsider their political preferences. Because in the leadership of the National Movement Party, all of these problems will be taken into account, steps will be taken to increase the current income and prosperity of our citizens. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as the CHP speaker, Mr. Millerdereli, mentioned this year, our Minister of Agriculture, unfortunately, has been a great victim of our farmer's late opening offices in the Thracian District. And I hope that our government will do its due, and that you will give additional support to our farmer. I salute the House.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0321par0033	Thank you, Mr. Belen. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Numbered Bill of Law, which is currently in session, shall be replaced by the term "six months" in Article 64, which stipulates the interim application of Article 5510. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0322par0040	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0321par0041	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0323par0042	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0321par0043	I'm reading the reason: The duration of the declaration and documents that must be made with this arrangement has been raised from six months to one year. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 64th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 64th article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 65. Since all three of these motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together, but I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders if they want to. I'm reading it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639th article, which stipulates to add temporary material to Law 5510, be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Faysal Sarıyıldız The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Serindağ Free Special Haydar Akar Hasan Ören Bkent Kuşoğlu Mehmet Ali Sesam Musa selects Pine Vahaap The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0324par0069	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0321par0070	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0325par0071	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0321par0072	Mr. Dora, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0326par0073	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the 65th Amendment to Article of the Law and Law Act 639. I salute the General Assembly. Since the beginning of negotiations on the bag bill, labour policies have been the head of the General Assembly when the EC PARTY government is most criticised. Dear lawmakers, we believe that the power of the EC PARTI, based on profit, should put the hat ahead of it and think about it a little bit. In this case, health workers are one of the most affected by EC PARTY policies of secession. Aside from solving the problems of 4/C status workers within the Health Ministry, these workers are facing new challenges day by day. Dear lawmakers have become insecurity, flexible work as part of the labour force policies established by the EC PARTY, and the Constitution's principle of the social state has been, if you will, salted. They are members of the Ministry of Health, 4/C, who are unsecured, without social rights, and head of workers whose flexible working styles are the most victimised. Here comes the 4/C that works in the system. The employment of these employees must be met with the requirements of the social state for recognition of their social rights. It is unacceptable for workers to have no assurances of their own, the lives of the people. Despite this fact, the EC PARTY is seeking to promote privatisation in healthcare and promote subcontractorization. In 1993, there were 224,000 workers in health care, while 218,000 were staffed and 6,000 were subcontractors. In 2002, when the EC PARTY came to power, the number of healthcare workers was 256,000, while 245,000 were staffed and 11,000 were subcontractors. In 2012, 381,000 of the 507,000 health workers were staffed, while the number of subcontractors increased to 126,000. Don't these numbers mean that the AK PARTI power in itself metabolizes health? The government shows that it does not value human life in the eyes of health workers and in the eyes of sick citizens. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, 4/C in healthcare, 4/C in highways, 4/C in privatisation victims, all of the workforce is facing almost 4/C or subcontractors. We'd like to express the urgency of the EC PARTY government's decision to give up this mental eclipse. The EC PARTI government says it must immediately abandon these policies and practices for the labour force, and that it should be based on job security, social security, social rights, and I expect your support for our motion, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0327par0081	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Antalya MP Mehmet Günal, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0328par0084	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. A mistake with our proposal is being corrected in this article, but most of the corrections that we have made in this law have been made by the government or by the law. Now, I said it was the most important achievement of the TÜİK (TİK) that the friends sent back information. I looked at it yesterday, and our TÜİK president published it. The allegations of unemployment are not true. Our Minister is here, and the Prime Minister has told me many times that we have a structural problem in unemployment. I can't figure it out. By God, TÜİK is very good at this. I said, I repeat the same thing. We're constantly changing methods, balance of payments, tourism revenues, now in unemployment accounts... and the case is ready, so the European Union said, well, this is how we calculate. That's what the European Statistical Office said, that's how we calculate it. The IMF has changed the balance of payments, so we... Well, well, where's your previous cool, where's your next cool, where's the footnote for your corrections on that? I mean, I really don't understand who's saying what in this economy. I watched two ministers' statements today morning, and upstairs, our president of the Central Bank was presenting, and I couldn't attend him because of another meeting, but I listened to what the ministers said. I'm amazed, now that Mr. Zeybekci is saying something, he's giving a different number, I'm watching Mr. Babacan on the other hand, he's actually confirming what we're saying. I mean, you all look so surprised, but let me read two of your passages, which I've seen myself explain on television, Mr. Secretary-General, says: each project in the market is a new monopoly. Should the industrialist invest his savings in the industry or should the residence build a mall? There's a strap there, it's dangerous. We're going to produce, we're going to earn, then we're going to shop in luxury malls, we're going to live in more luxurious housing. Look, I'm going to read it again, Mr. Babacan says: Without producing, with an external loan, luxury housing can put Turkey in a deadlock. You get angry when we say it. I didn't hear any reaction from either of you to Mr. Babacan. I've listened to you myself with my afternoon ears, saying the same thing. The other day I said the thing about the credit cards, the city's credit card debt, credit debt, 55 times higher. I said, "No response from any of you." Look, what does it say next? So they're asking for structural measures from one side, Mr. Babacan says that the election is coming right now, so here it is, after the next election, we're going to turn it into a three-year middle-term program, and we're going to work there. What does it say about reforms? There are 25 transforming sites in the five-year development plan, and we're working on them, and we're going to come up with an action plan. We'll apply these after the election, he says. And, friends, what year of Justice and Development Party power is this? So we're still working on structural reforms. Please, we have to stop dealing with useless things. He's going on to the most important issue, what we just said, there's a real problem in the industry, and Mr. Secretary has made this assessment, and we have a high production of... Mr. President, I'm guessing friends are for roll call, but there's a hum. I read to you the words of Mr. Babacan, not my own, but your own.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0329par0092	Congressmans, please listen. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0328par0094	It's not me I'm talking about, dear friends, if it's the Minister's statement that friends can say one thing... it's that we have friends who talk back and forth from time to time. Mr. Babacan says our production is high, we need to increase our own production. In recent years, industrial production has declined its share in national revenues. It's a dangerous trend. The private sector's capital spending is dwindling, which worries us. We say the same thing. Come on, let's build a high-tech, high-end, high-end economic system that's producing, investing, prioritizing exports. Mr. Secretary says the same thing, but on the other hand, Mr. Zeybekci says we're going to reduce the current deficit to 5/5 per cent. He says that Mr. Babacan is going to be around 6 per cent. At 89% inflation, 7.5 per cent will be targeted, while someone will be below 7 per cent, says. I don't understand, I'm sorry. So I don't understand those statistics. We expect Mr. President to explain it all backwards and present it on the Web site at the same time as the old years and new years. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0330par0099	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Mr. Vahaap, MP of Mersin, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0331par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. This arrangement includes regulations related to tax and tax debt, restructuring and restructuring of a tax debt of around 67 billion. Of course, taxes are important to Turkey. Turkey has no such serious underground wealth, no above-ground wealth. This year, the 2014 estimated budget is about $436 billion, and we're going to collect $350 billion in tax revenues, and we're going to spend it on public expenses. We've budgeted it, we've done it. Last year, about 408 billion dollars -- I'm talking about 2013 -- 326 billion dollars of the budget were made out of tax revenues. So the tax is very important to us, and we get budget deficits every year, so our revenues are always below our expenses. The previous year was around $30 billion, dropped to 18 billion TL last year, but it happens every year. It'll be relative... Why am I telling you this now? In the last few days, I've been on the stand and on the way to the presidential election, and I've told him that the Prime Minister should actually leave his post. Perhaps you can bind the law to not leaving this post, the YSK has a decision like this, but politically, as tradition, as a rule, I said that it is necessary for competition, for a truly fair election, for equal conditions. I felt I had to bring it up again. It's in the press a lot anyway. Again, with the Prime Minister's plane, Skorsky's helicopter is going to the polls, the rally squares. He held the RTÜK meeting -- I'll come to the TRT/, but there's an explanation from the president of RTÜK, where we can't tell whether the Prime Minister is doing these activities as a prime minister's or as a presidential election campaign. Thus, these publications in the TRT are from him. A reason, or reason, gives a funny reason. The Constitution, where the TRT is neutral, is autonomous, is the Supreme Court. TRT is a public corporate personality, needs to be neutral, needs to broadcast objectively. Now, you're using public equipment, utilizing public resources, making your expenses from treasure. As I've just said, you're also using those taxes that we collect, the tax that we collect for public spending, the tax that we collect for social benefit to society, 15 television channels, 18 radio stations -- actually a massive media formation, the structure -- here you are using TRT. You have pool media on one side -- you have an ally media on one side -- with televisions, radios, magazines, newspapers -- as you take with you the support of a media that's been acting with you -- you take with you the support of this public corporate personality, and TRT has done the same thing in local elections, he's done the same thing, he's been biased, he's violated the Constitution, he's violated the RRT Law, he's violated the RRT Law. TRT was warned three times by the RTÜK, and he said, "You're doing it wrong." He said, "You're doing it differently." Yesterday, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe again visited the RTÜK (RTÜK) and the discussions were repeated. And again, because RTÜK has published the speech of the presidential candidate Prime Minister seven times... the day TRT TÜRK announced its candidacy for president, it was four-and-a-half hours without interruption and received a new warning. I'd like to get the public's attention on this occasion. My respects to all of you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0332par0112	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0333par0113	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit three motions of the same nature to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... I'll do it with an electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The motion has been denied, there is enough to decide. I submit the 65th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 65th article is accepted. We're moving on to item 66. There are three motions on Article 66: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 66 of Article 66 of Law No. 639, which is currently in session, be changed in the following manner, to add a temporary clause to Law 5510. "A total of five people, including two of the spouses and children of the deceased for reasons mentioned in the first joke, are also applied in Article 3713 concerning employment in Article 1 of Law No. 3713, if they do not have a wife and children. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Of Ankara MP İzzet Cet and 13 MPs; of Ankara MP İzzet Çetin; of İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; of Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Izklı MP Oktay Kıkalal; of İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel; of İstanbul MP İzket Çeçı; of İstanbul MP İzket Çeş; of Ankara MP İzket Çeş; of İstanbul MP İçaşı; of İstanbul MP Şeçı; of Turkey's Party of Parliament; and of İstanbul MP İsıtım Çağal; of Turkey's Party of Parliament; of Turkey's Party of Parliament; of İstanbul MP İzktay Çeçıçıçılı; of İstanbul MP İçıt Çıçı; of İstanbulıçıçıçıçı; of İstanbul MP İsıçıçıçılı; of İstanbul MP of Parliament; of Parliament; of the İstanbul MP of the İstanbul MP of the Parliament; of the Parliament; of the Parliament; of the İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of the Parliament; of the Parliament; of İstanbul MP of the Parliament; of the Party of the Parliament; of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of the İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of the Parliament; of the İstanbul MP of the Parliament; of İstanbul MP of Turkey and İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of Turkey; of İstanbul MP of Turkey; Mehmet of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul of Turkey; of Turkey; of the Parliament; of İstanbul of İstanbul of İstanbul of İstanbul (TK of the Parliament; Mehmet of Turkey; Mehmet of Turkey; Mehmet of İstanbul (Çı of the Party of Turkey of Turkey; Mehmet of the Party of the Parliament; Mehmet of the Party of the Party of the Party of Turkey; Mehmet of the Parliament of the Party of the Parliament; Mehmet of Turkey; Mehmet of the Parliament; Mehmet of Parliament of the Parliament of Turkey; Mehmet of the Party of Turkey; Mehmet of the Party of İstanbul of the Parliament; Mehmet of Turkey; Mehmet of the Party of Turkey; Mehmet of Parliament of Parliament of İstanbul of the Party of the Parliament of the Party of Turkey; Mehmet of Parliament of the Parliament; Mehmet of the Parliament of Parliament of the Party of the Party of İstanbul MP of the Party of Turkey; Article 59. We submit and propose that the following joke be added to the article. Ali Serindağ Özgür Special Hasan Ören Haydar Akar Rahmi Mosa Pine of Love Bornt Kuşoğlu Mehmet Ali Sesam Sakine Öz "The rights brought under this clause also benefit the rights of miners who lost their lives as a result of a ten-year backward mining business accident from the date of the law." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Of Mehmet Şandir, MP of MHP Group Mersin; of MP Mehmet Şandir; of MHP Group Merkin; of MP Mehmet Şandir; of MHP Group Mersin; Mehmet Şandir; Mehmet Shandir; Mehmet Şandir; Mehmet Şandir; 2HP Group Chair and Minister of the Law; MHP Group Mersin MP Mersin MP Mehmet Şandir; Mehmet Şandir, MP Mehmet Şandir, MP Mehmet Şandir, MP of MP Mehmet Şandir, MKıkı, MP of MKıkı, MKıkıkıkıkıkı, MP of MKıkıkıkı, MKıkıkıkıkı, MKıkıkıkık Şanıkıkım Şanıkımımımı; of Mır, Mıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkı, 2Kıkıkıkıkı, 2Kıkıkıkıkımımı, 2Kıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkı, 2Kıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkımımımı, 2Kıkımıkı, 2Kkkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkık, 2Kkkkıkık, 2Kkk, 2Kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkıkıkıkıkık, 2Kkkkk, 2Kkkkkkkkkıkkkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkık, 2Kkıkıkıkıkık, 2kıkıkıkık, 2Kk, 2Kkıkıkık, 2Kk, 2Kkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkıkı Erkan Akçay Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı The following temporary clause is added to the Law 66-5510. INTERVIEWED in Soma district of Manisa Province on 59-13/5/2014, any debt to the institution is abandoned, and the second joke of Article 32 (a) to the rightful owners is subject to a monthly bond according to the Law. The amount of premiums predicted in this Law will be paid by the Ministry of Finance. In the income and monthly bonding of the deceased insurance holder to his parents, conditions are not required that the first joke of Article 34 (d) will be less than the minimum amount of income and per month's income specified by each and all other children, except the income earned and the monthly income and/or non-connected. A total of two people, including the wife or child or father or brother of the deceased, wife or father or child, are working underground during the mining accident of Manisa Province in 15/08/2014, when the release of this law is not available, the parents and the parents of their parents (II) and their brothers and sisters are working on the ground during the mine accident of Soma County in 13/5/2014, while the survivors of Manisa Province are working on the ground, and the employees of the public financial management and control code, dated 10/12/2003, with whom each of them has been appointed as a special staff, and the authorities and the authorities of the other have been appointed by the authorities, and the authorities and the authorities (III) have been assigned to each of the authorities and the authorities, and the authorities, as well as well as those who have been responsible for their rights, have been appointed to each other. As part of this joke, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy shall determine the publication of this Law within three months of the date. The procedure and basis for the implementation of this clause are found by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance and the Undersecretary of Treasury."
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0334par0149	Mr. President, if this motion is in our hands, if it hasn't been shortened, you can't process this motion.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0333par0150	We've cut it short, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0334par0151	Sir, we don't have the shortened motion.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0333par0152	We shortened it, it was to be distributed, photocopy.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0335par0153	Well, then, sir, since they're asking for the shortened motion, please hand out the abbreviated motion, take a break, let them have it, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0336par0154	Sir, let's take a break, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0337par0155	Mr. President, 500 words... let's take a break, let's take a break. That motion is not to be taken, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0335par0156	They want the reduced motion, yes, they are right, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0336par0157	Mr. President, they're really right. Let's take a break, sir. The motion didn't come to us either.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0337par0158	If you'll excuse me... Mr. President, you can't process the motions that go through 500 words. If this motion has passed 500 words, you'll have to remove it. If you have these scratches, this motion is more than 500 words.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0338par0160	They shortened it, sir, and they'll be careful from now on.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0339par0161	But, sir...
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0337par0162	They'll make the next ones shorter. If this motion goes through 500 words right now, you can't process it.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0338par0163	It's been shortened, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0337par0164	Let's count it.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0340par0165	Let him count it, let him count it, let the scribe count it.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0341par0166	Mr. President, hand out the abbreviated motion.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0337par0167	Mr. President, it's past 500 words.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0342par0168	Then let's take a break, count, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0337par0169	Let's take a break, let's count.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit08spe0342par0170	Come in, Mr. Group Vice Presidents. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-23sit09spe0342par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 124th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 639 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. The objection will be examined, I'll tell you that. The number of proposals will be reviewed again. Since we have reached the end of our working period, it is 12 p.m. on Thursday (July 24th 2014) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
