tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 135th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you five minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings, we're going on the agenda. We begin talks on the Council of Ministers programme established by Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, which is part of the agenda's special agenda. The talks will be promised on behalf of political party groups, the government and its members, according to Article 72 of the Civil Code. The time is forty minutes in speeches on behalf of government and political party groups, according to the decision made in the 134th Union of the General Assembly, dated 1/9/2014. This time can only be used by two speakers. In personal conversations, the time is ten minutes. I'm reading the names of the members of the program in order: Pervin Buldan, Iğdır MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Ertuğrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP. Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Hurşit Sun, Al-Huseli MP. Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Amasya MP Mustafa Elitaş, Kayseri MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Kamer Genç, Tunceli MP and Yilmaz Tunç, Bartın MP. In the name of the government, Bulent Arinc, Deputy Prime Minister. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Pervin Buldan, Iğdır MP... Please, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Lawmakers... Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0002par0025	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express our group's views on the 62nd Government Programme. On this occasion, I salute you all. The work presented to Parliament as a government programme is not only a program, but a report of action that includes AKP's activities and aims for 2015 elections. Given Turkey's people's demands for democracy, freedom, justice and equality, it will be seen that this programme does not represent an advanced line. First of all, we need to be clear that the program does not include a radical goal of democratic change and transformation. Its goal and goal is to maintain the existing system with partial restorations. Dear MPs, no matter what anyone says, the area of democracy and freedom in Turkey is extremely limited. The authoritarian practices of power are increasing day by day, and society is camped as if by segregating and aberrant policies. Identity, cultures, beliefs, sects, women, young people, intellectuals, workers...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0003par0029	Mr. President, we can't listen to the conversation.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0004par0030	Mr. Buldan, one moment. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please speak to the ministers outside. Mr. Buldan, I'm rebooting.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0005par0033	So, due respect to your honor, you're going to have to settle down now.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0004par0034	Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0006par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. ...the pressures on journalists, environmentalists and human rights activists are disturbing. No identity or belief in Turkey is free enough. Even the smallest opposition is facing the most disproportionate violence of the state. Public participation in politics and democratic representation in parliament face obstacles. The elections never run in a democratic race. Parliament is not free. All laws are passed by the AKP's majority, and the opposition's proposals are not considered in any way. Justice has become almost a candle in this country. Turkey is increasingly becoming an authoritarian state of law, away from the rule of law. Unemployment, corruption, poverty, the exploitation of labor, the destruction of nature, the murder of women, all kinds of violence against children is increasing. Desperate college kids from your future, unassigned teachers grow like avalanches. If there is no law of equality, if justice is wounded, if the country's administration is not transparent and manageable, can one speak of a future in that country with confidence? Dear lawmakers, Turkey is currently ruled by its institutions with the Constitutional and laws of the coup era. How will you build the new Turkey without creating a democratic constitution in terms of a social contract? How are you going to pave the way for democratic politics, participation, and freedoms without lifting antidemocratic, authoritarian laws such as the 10 percent election threshold, TMK, TCK? How are you going to create the conditions of living together, free and evenly, without destroying the monotheism imposed on the people, on the identities, without building a pluralistic system? The government programme states that rights and freedoms are under the guarantee of AKP power. That's where the real wrong lies. Can the guarantee of democratic rights and freedoms be power in modern democracies? Freedoms must be guaranteed not by a government, but by the constitution and by the law. You'll never be able to create a new Turkey until you've done that. Can a government that has been massacred in the work killings of the past 12 years, with Soma (Soma), with children killed by police bullets, with Roboski, with women's murders, with corruption, with poverty, with unemployment, with the exploitation of labor, be able to build a new one, represent a new one? In view of all these facts, we are sadly confronted with a government programme that shows the country in a russian state, as if there were no problems, far from the reality of Turkey. The program does not create that kind of excitement, but it also increases hopelessness. The government's goal, apparently, is to make some changes in its own direction, without touching the existing system, or there is no radical reform will or intention. In a more direct statement, the construction of the new Turkey, mentioned in the Government Programme, will be no different from the construction of materials that will be established if these are limited steps. Unfortunately, the materials of this construction are incomplete. In view of the new Turkish expression in the programme, it will be evident that a target deflection was actually being done. It is that our country today's basic need is to achieve a democratic Turkey goal that will overcome the existing system. Taking and scaling the existing antidemocratic system will not cover the democracy gap, nor will it meet Turkey's needs. It must be remembered that if you don't have a solid democracy, a lasting internal peace, and a strong democratic constitutional system, it is inevitable that you will be helpless in the face of problems. Therefore, this programme is far from the democratic Turkey demand of the peoples of Turkey. The construction of democratic Turkey can happen not with the line represented by such power, but with a radical sense of democracy and the common struggle of the peoples. There's a democratic republic in radical democracy, there's a common country, there's a democratic nation, there's a democratic constitution. No goal that does not unite around these principles will move Turkey forward, not pave the way for democracy. Deputies should be a democratic Turkey, democracy, law, and, depending on all of this, its economy should be developed by the distribution of equal income. The most important step in the creation of these conditions is the creation of a system where we will build radical democracy. A radical change and transformation must be the goal from the removal of the electoral dam to the formation of autonomous local governments based on decentralisation; from the establishment and freedom of thought; from the development of civil society; from the fight against corruption; from the fight against poverty to the reality; and from the deep state to the reckoning. Without these things, democracy cannot deepen, our countries and our peoples cannot be liberated. The programme does not include these main goals, it is about strengthening civil society; so, how are you going to bring civil society into power without ensuring the democratic civil society law, without guaranteeing civil society? In addition, the approach to different identities and beliefs does not develop on the basis of accepting them as they are, providing their rights and freedoms. The government attempts to describe identity, faith, and sects in its own way. You will accept different beliefs as they are, and you will not decide what they should demand or how they should worship. You will not impose new forms of faith on beliefs and identities, or those cultures will be harmed. But when we look at the government's approach, we have the opposite situation. My fellow lawmakers, the programme highlights improvements on the living conditions of Roma citizens, but the practice leads to victims, not improvements. More than 5,000 Roma were displaced from their homes during the government's process of protecting social fabric and location. Our Roma citizens, who need to protect their social tissues, cultures from their position, have lost their living spaces, their economies, and their social networks. Now, how can our Roma citizens trust the government's sincerity? Also, the approach to Alevi is the same. The programme claims that the government is approaching all religions and beliefs at equal distances, but in practice, there is a full discrimination, not equality. Under the administration of this government, which claims to solve the problems of the Aleki society, the belief in Alevi in textbooks is tried to be passed on to new generations, under informal definitions and insults. The belief in flammableism is humiliated, and in this way, our citizens of Alevi are narrowed down. This warped mentality needs to change. The government must leave their form of worship to the people of Alevi. The Cemevs must have legal status as a place of worship, and the Alekis and other religious groups must also benefit from the government's share of the Dianet. In textbooks, all statements that offend the people of Alevi must be made. In the past, the government must face all the Aleki massacres that have been infected by the state. I'm afraid you can't embrace these beliefs and cultures without them. The European Union and the government are talking about implementing a national action plan in 2014-2017, and we have already expressed that we support Turkey's European Union process, but the government cannot shape public institutions according to universal human rights and universal standards is the biggest obstacle to this issue. Turkey's failure to lift even the reservations it has set on a condition, such as the European Condition of Autonomous Affairs, is one of the biggest obstacles to Turkey's strong progress towards the European Union process. It should be the basic understanding of the European Union's progress, for the government to give up all international laws and change them towards international and universal rights and freedom norms. The new constitution of the government programme contradicts the AKP's current practice and proposals to the Constitutional Compromise Commission. Apart from the executive department, the AKP presented a constitutional proposal for the continuation of the 82 Constitution. In particular, restrictions such as the public order of the 82 Constitution on limitation of rights and freedoms have been maintained. The programme's participant constitutional commitment is not part of the constitution proposed by the AKP (AKP). On the contrary, it's formulated a strict, centralist presidential model that has all the powers in its hands. In the Constitutional Compromise Commission, the constitutional and law proposals that we offer against strengthening local governments, strengthening public participation in decision-making mechanisms, the one type of civil and democratic mass organisations and the hostile understanding of differences have been rejected by the AKP itself. In addition, despite the innovative, libertarian, democratic constitution statement in the Government Programme, the AKP did not present any liberal approach to the constitution in matters such as women's rights, labour rights, freedom of speech, freedom of thought and freedom of expression, ecology, cultural identity rights, education in the native language. All of these are developments in which the government has not completely strayed from the spirit of the Constitution of the coup. If the government is aiming for a new constitution, the Constitution of the coup must throw it all away. The solution process is in a government programme and its political response is the most important indicator of the social acceptance and inextricability of peace. We see the lack of ownership of this process by all parties present in Parliament as a major flaw. Today, there is no one in Turkey's district, in its village, in its village, and in its town who is unhappy with the process. It is not just a matter between the Kurdish people and their representatives and the state that concerns the Kurdish people. This issue is the issue of Turkey's democratisation. Therefore, all parties in Parliament must approach this issue with a more political understanding. The process of dialogue with Mr. Ocalan for one-and-a-half years must then be transformed into an inter-partisan negotiation in accordance with Turkey's great peace. The creation of negotiating conditions, however, is one of our priority expectations that the parties will have a third party that will be able to monitor the talks and give advice at the point of obstruction, and that there will be a secretariat that can record talks and provide support for different needs to the parties. The emergence of the resolution law has strengthened the ground. Now, other steps that will make the process permanent on this floor need to be taken. In view of the developments in the Middle East, especially at our border, we would also like to point out that we are in danger of risking the achievements of this process. Speeding up the solution process and maintaining lasting peace will be the most important factor to protect us from the dangers we may encounter. Let us not forget that the union of the people, based on the equality of the people, will only carry us into the future. Dear lawmakers, the reconstruction of the justice system in Turkey is a common desire and expectation of everyone. Antidemocratic, segregational legal provisions that prevent peace primarily in Turkey must be revised on the basis of basic human rights, and those who create obstacles to human rights and peace must be removed immediately. As a matter of fact, the basic criteria for the establishment of justice must be the construction of social peace. Unfortunately, in Turkey, the judicial system continues to stand in the way of peace and democracy. According to the state's singular system and the government's status quo approach, the judicial system is increasingly out of law and justice. One day the judgment of power against its own opponents, like the sword of Damocles, will come and become an instrument of coup against power. The government does not see that fact. Democracy, rights and freedoms, not state and power, can only progress through democracy, not through a judiciary that protects the rights of the citizen. The development of society in economic, social, total development is a state of law. If trust in justice, judicial mechanisms collapses, there's an impossible situation for him to return to in any area. In this sense, what governments need to do is to build a judicial mechanism in accordance with universal standards. A judgment that recognizes human rights and freedoms, right to defend, right to life, is the principal principle, must be built with its members. Judgement should be an independent judiciary, not a rule of power, but a principle of rights and freedoms. Precious lawmakers have been involved in the 62nd government programme of women and women, which are of particular importance in Turkey because of the world and especially because of the current male sovereign system, in the fight against social support, social benefits and poverty. Even this alone shows that there is nothing new about women in the new Turkish expression, which is that the current situation of the woman will continue, which is not new to Turkey, but has continuity. We will increase the efficiency of women's decision-making mechanisms in the following period, which praises the establishment of the European and Central Asian Regional Office of the United Nations Association for Gender Equality and Enforcement of Women in the United Nations. It is the greatest sign of a government that is not sincere beyond the fact that women have achieved an appeal by state institutions to regional management courts in order to improve the importance of gender equality in local governments, and that women's decision-making mechanisms. Women's murders, one of the country's biggest problems, which, unfortunately, the government can't go beyond what they're saying, continue to increase. In 2013, 228 was slaughtered by men and 171 women in the first eight months of 2014. In the 62nd Government Programme in the New Turkey claim, certain, primitive and effective policies must be made concrete in the face of any violence against women. The first sincere step in this direction is to establish a women's ministry and include studies on the effective implementation of the Istanbul Convention. A man who injured his wife in 43 places with a screwdriver can travel through television channels and explain how right he is, as released by the judiciary. Although we have filed a complaint against the People's Democratic Party, the fact that there is still no progress in this direction has shown again that the new Turkey will be the current Turkey, which continues to slaughter women. Dear lawmakers, in view of all these facts, it is clear that the Government Programme did not produce permanent and radical solutions to the fundamental problems of Turkey. This program does not inspire confidence. That's why I say we won't support you, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0007par0055	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the second speaker is Ertugrul Kürkcı, Mersin MP. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0008par0059	Mr. President, dear friends, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party, I'm here to explain our position against the Government Program. We have been formally invited here today to discuss the 62nd Government Programme under the leadership of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm just saying that because what Turkey's Grand National Assembly is really doing is nothing more than the fulfillment of a form requirement for the government of Davutoglu's legalisation. Although we are implementing a procedure required by the Constitutional Court to ensure that the appointed government is elected by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we all know that since the AKP's extraordinary congress of the 62th government, it is no longer the actual, real, concrete, political power centre. The political power centre has now been moved to the presidential residence, which, in effect, will be located in the Ataturk Forest Farm. That's political truth. This political truth, this new order of political power, the Government Programme, is a barrier in front of our discussion by accepting Mr. Davutoglu's Cabinet as a real, actual, and sovereign focus of power. Besides, none of us sees that the next program document is basically an update of the 61st Government Programme. Therefore, it is inevitable to begin with what this new political power sharing implies in terms of the present and future of Turkey. Erdogan's failure to comply with the need to leave his party from the moment he was elected President, Turkey has been sentenced to a ceremony since 10 August, in which the announcement of the High Election Board on the finality of its presidency has been blocked by officials of the AKP's government, against which the president was held in the AKP congress as President of the Constitution, as well as violations of the constitution and constitutional violations. Since 10 August, Turkey has been condemned to a ceremony that calls for the lure of the society to worship of power. It's like we're just beyond a presidential election, we're at our sultan's ceremony, we're witnessing the rise to the height of our founding father's eternal reign, and he's raising one of his subjects from the final position of power to sadrazam. Its acceptance of feeding the air and of the beginning of a new era has since taken on a symbolism, depression, and greatness to implant it into the minds and the subconscious of society. The state's government has placed itself at the center of the show community; the screaming, exuberance, escrime and so-called self-confidence explosions in supporting media and pencil players have been staged; during the days of the handovers, the Constitution, the father's law, the show-off, or the first sentences of the prime minister's regime were made. However, this fiction, which has been pretty lame and loaded with surrealism, has no bearing on cruel realities. For those who still haven't woken up from the dream, especially for our AKP MP friends, I'd like to remind them of a few of these harsh realities. First of all, Recep Tayyip Erdogan came out of a weak position, worn out, under the scope of corruption investigations and unsupervised accounts. He didn't go to Çankaya, and fled to the forest farm of Ataturk. The AKP also did not increase its vote in the presidential elections. Nearly 52 per cent, about 52 per cent of voters voting is not a real indicator in Turkey. Yes, it's a legal and political indicator, but 52 per cent of the vote received in a turnout of around 75 per cent was a clear indication that the AKP was still in the position of the past approval. When we look at the exact numbers and we vote abroad, you're there for what you got in the local elections. So from the polls, there's no progress, no public support, no ascension to justify these roars. The same goes for our Prime Minister, who has been promoted from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Prime Minister in Ahmet Davutoglu. He's the architect of a frustrated, unwashed foreign policy. His basic political goals have taken the position of Prime Minister as a bankrupt foreign minister. It is also possible to see this clearly because the Government Programme did not address any urgent and burning problem in the Middle East, which was the work of Davutoglu himself. Is there such a government program? A government that pawned 49 diplomats to ISIS executioners does not include a single ruling programme on what to do about it. The large internal migrations, which have emerged in Syria itself due to the chaotic situation caused by the Turkish governments, have no ruling on what to do with the migrations, which are over 1.5 million of them, but are spoken of in the Middle East. No, we're ancients, we're cultural masters over them, we're guides, we're pioneers, we'd better get out of this leadership claim as soon as possible. Our neighbors, the people of the Middle East, do not expect us to lead. Since the Ottoman Empire was freed from its judgment and became a national state, part of their national identity has been a part of the struggle against this sovereignty. All the dreams of this place -- I promise you -- have returned from Baghdad, returned from Damascus, returned from Palestine and continue to return from Palestine, but are now sharing with us as our Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs, who has not been given these accounts. The government programme has a lot of strong words for fighting corruption, but how can we forget them? With the most serious corruption Turkey has faced, this Parliament has not dealt with, the files have been kidnapped from parliament. It's hard to imagine that we're dealing with an actual program to establish the involvement of a alleged Prime Ministership as a friend of this corruption. As a matter of fact, we have to think about what kind of program we're facing. Are we discussing the history of philosophy, are we dealing with an academic thesis, are we dealing with a government program, or are we facing a geostrategic analysis charge, or are we dealing with a doctrine, or are we talking about government politics and execution? In fact, it would be appropriate for these obsessive doctrineal thesis to be removed by AKP spokesman, the authorities, because it does nothing but cloud what we're discussing. But, if that's the case, Mr. Davutoglu's got the ball in the middle, the castle's empty, not until he shoots there. Davutoglu trusts his thesis very much, but if I were actually a history teacher, I'd give you zero because Mr. Davutoglu is dividing the history of the world into three phases that will put us on it: Ancient -- what do you mean, Ancient -- modernity and globalization. When you look at it with such straight and schematic logic, what is it? The Ancient is the Ottoman Middle Age for Turkey. So before that, wasn't there life on this Anatolian soil, on the ground of Turkey today, and before that, was there no social life, social history, where we inherited our heritage -- is it nothing more than a feudal, patriarchal, bureaucratic dictatorship, or does its ceremonies just have no history, or does its people have no history? Mr. Davutoglu and Erdogan are speaking primarily as if they were members of the Ottoman family. But when we look at their biographies, they're basically the children of poor laborers, and they've risen from there to where they are today. There was no mechanism in the Ottoman community that would ever, ever give them such a way, such an opportunity, such a position of power. They would come into the world as shepherds, die as shepherds, or they would join the groomed sapahi as shepherds, and they would lose their lives in the war of the futu. That's why we're not with that kind of history. We are, but we are with this sense of history: no ekende, no harvest, no common Ottomans in eating. That's our view of the Ottomans. It is difficult to say that the Ottoman State will inherit us, leaving us with any political heritage that will fit our understanding of today's democratic quests, today's claim of freedom, today's life. Of course, there's a lot of things from civil architecture to social traditions, we were born into them, but it's another thing to talk about from the inside and the heart of the state. On the other hand, this program presents to us all the exaggerations about Turkey, about Asia Minor, about how to translate this foreign policy into an artificial, artificial, hormonal self-esteem -- except that there is no one living in a place like us -- there is no one living in a place like us -- there is opportunities presented to us, even if a Davutoglu is our prime minister! But is that history, is that life? When we open our eyes to the world, we see that many countries, with no geostrategic state or condition, have dominated the world for many long periods of time, had the ability to convey their culture, their politics, their ideas, and their traditions. So it's not about where you live in geography, it's about what culture and what spiritual heritage and what scientific and cultural development you represent. When we look at the government programme, we can't see anything about them. We don't even see a list of what we should have, let alone leading other countries, in order to gain something of their value. In the age of knowledge, we have no idea how much resources are being distributed in terms of the production of information in a place where the most basic production tool is information. Davutoglu's and the Government's Programme, and, of course, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's frequent remarks, a concept they have referenced themselves: Restoration. We're going through an era of restoration. It's a restoration that, when it's complete, everything will be perfect for us! But this restoration -- as you know, it's a French word -- what's in the source of it? The political historical meaning of the restoration is this concept, the restoration of the post-Prussia, Austria, Britain and Russia, in Europe, which we call the Metternich Age, where the sacred alliance that they formed was to bring Europe back to the pre-French Revolution. I mean, there's not a single good response in terms of politics of restoration. When you say restoration, reactionary bells ring. When you say restoration, it comes to mind that states are armed with the desire to be returned to a non-existent past. I wish he'd chosen a more fortunate concept. This is where we came to say Ihya, Ihya. However, when we look at the speech of the Prime Minister and the President, they seem to suggest something a little bit more with this restoration, but in terms of the date we're living today, that's problematic, problematic. A 1920 love is expressed in the President's statement that we've never heard of it before and to the extent we've never heard of it. When we explore this 1920 love, we see that he sees the composition of the First Assembly as the ideal political composition, he wants 1923, a quest to bring together both the state government and the First Assembly, a political orientation that follows. In fact, the Prime Minister -- Recep Tayyip Erdogan -- is now beyond his former claims in his notebook as the 12th President of the Republic, who has noted that the relationship between the President and the president had been weakened after his death and has also blessed Mustafa Kemal and thus chosen to speak from within a history fiction where he equated himself with him and identified himself with him. There is no golden age, my friends. The word of the naturalist ancient Greek Philozofu Herakleitos is to our ears............... everything flows in the same river, you can't go back to 1920, you can't restore history and geography, you can't go back to 1923, you can't go back to another era, you can't go back to the one party, you can't go back to the next year, you can't go back to the next year, you can't go back to the next year, you can't go back to the next year. You just have to look forward. And it's the most fundamental philosophical point that we've already broken up with the Government Program. You cannot search the future of Turkey in its past. That past gives you a savings, sometimes an obstacle, sometimes an opportunity, but the future is just the direction of your actions today. Consider your actions today: Turkey has still failed to fully fulfill any of its commitments as a member of the Council of Europe in 2004, with neither the state of law nor the ten per cent of the new constitution being removed nor the recognition of a ten per cent threshold or the recognition of a conscientious object of discrimination that women face and the training of prosecutors in the new constitutional perspective, no paper has been fully fulfilled, and there is not a single ombudsmanship available. The way this program is presented, it's cutting us off from all references. What are we going to refer to, the progress, the setback, what are we going to do, what aren't we going to do, what are we going to talk about? We've got one base, we've got ourselves tied up, so far, we've got an international criteria. As a member of the Council of Europe, what progress have we made on the rule of law, the rule of law, and human rights, and what progress can we achieve? We see that no measure of this is here. On the other hand, the economic aspects of the government programme are in total confusion and conflict. It speaks of horizontal cities, government, but Turkey today is the 141st skyscraper of Europe with 141 skyscrapers. Istanbul will be the first skyscraper next year. You can't do anything but make the cities more vertical as you bring this territorial ranking politics to its form of municipalism. And the rebellion against this city policy has been mentioned many times in the Government Programme as one of the most vicious jobs: (The ship, since Gezi, after Gezi, after the Trip, but despite all the pressure of this administration, the prosecution has not confirmed any of the allegations filed against the Trip, except for an illegal march, and no one has ever been charged with a more serious crime. In fact, Turkey's future lies in two directions: the direction of the trip and the freedom of the Kurds. These two dynamics are the two most important possibilities in the face of any guardian, any investor, any capitalist administration. As a political translation of this opportunity, the People's Democratic Party will try to fight the Justice and Development Party in all democratic legitimate ways that it can fight with its power. The fact that we are in the process of resolution and negotiation is not an obstacle to this struggle. To improve the terms of the debate, improve the quality of the negotiations, we have to fight for a higher democracy and a higher human rights regime. The obstacle to this is the Justice and Development Party's regime, which is now becoming more and more priestly, more authoritarian, more centralized, and more Caudilloian, a lasting chef. At this stage, we fight against this program by saying no. No, no, no, we don't accept your schedule. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0009par0079	Thank you. Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP who has asked for the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0010par0083	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party regarding the 62th Government Programme presented by Prime Minister Davutoglu. I salute you all. The programme, of course, corresponds with the programmes of previous AKP governments, and especially with the 61st Government Programme. I would like to point out in particular that our greatest wish as the National Movement Party is that the government does good work and succeeds in the interest of Turkey. Therefore, I wish that our criticisms would be evaluated in this way. Members of parliament, the government established in the presidency of Mr. Davutoglu faces a general assessment of it as a custody government. The President's duties and powers as head of the government and the Republic are defined as an executive of both our Constitution and the law. Let's hope the apps prove such allegations are not true. Of course, as the National Movement Party, we are dealing with the government on this matter. Therefore, I would like to point out that we will be with you in the decisions that the government will make in favour of Turkey, and we will be facing the wrong decisions. On this occasion, the first steps the government will take at this time are of great importance to be trusted. Otherwise, the mistakes made during the 12 years of government will not matter what they cost. The fact that a government does not maintain a just and just government is proportionate to whether it is advanced or not. As today, applying illegal practices to correct wrongs brings new wrongs, rather than correcting them, and I especially want to draw attention to that. Dear lawmakers, the government has basically provided us with a program under five main topics. Under this programme, he has devoted most of the programme to praising the performance of the former AKP governments. However, there was no detail that they failed to make or intended to correct. In addition, what is said on one page and what is said on the other is contrasted. The last page mentions the generosity of a new civilization, and the next page mentions strengthening the belonging to our ancient values of civilization. In this regard, as opposition, I would like to share with you our views on such matters. In the 62nd Government Programme, the slogan "democracy" is broad. Adjectives to democracy are probably equivalent to an honest and very honest definition. The AKP's advanced democracy is probably the one-man regime, the politicalisation of the judiciary and the execution of the judiciary, the exposure of the pressure of media organs and members to political bodies, the transfer of security forces to illegal armed organisations, the violation of the Constitution and the laws, and the logic of the law. I did it, I did it. An ethnically-based expansion of the Imran process, called the process of solutions, is also under the title of democracy. With the AKP's power in Turkey, each problem was used as a means of polarization and dissolution under the name of acclimation. With the interethnic-based expansion process we're discussing today, the goal is to reach the final point of creating crowds in our country that have no common value. The programme seeks to direct public opinion through democracy with beautiful and effective words. The AKP sees democracy not as a means of meeting in the common denominator, but as a means of creating new problems with puns, opening new fronts to social camps. The way they choose to do that is to keep public opinion busy with ethnic, religious, congregation, identity debates. However, today's identity disputes have resulted in the chaos, not from a social need, but from a political purpose. It must be remembered that as long as democratization creates or solidifys the idea of integration among individuals, the concept of a national state is powered. Otherwise, the fabric of the social structure will be corrupted by disintegration and division. Therefore, the growing democratic deficit has become one of our country's most important problems. There's a lot of damage done to our country by political understanding, who only remembers democracy by its so-called, repressive, pushy, exclusive manner, and who do not refuse to absorb too much voice, to suppress their search for rights. It must not be forgotten that it is not coincidental to a country that is yet divided into democrats. A country that grew, developed, and prospered has not been found by dividing ethnic origins from national and spiritual values. The AKP understands democracy by surrendering to the PKK. The AKP's understanding of democracy and freedom coincides with the treacherous intentions of terrorists. If Turkishism is wiped out, nationalism is broken, if the nation is broken, the blood of our martyrs, the enemies of our nation and our country win, it will be called democracy. In these unfortunate days of history, the AKP's rulings are a dissolution and dissolution campaign launched against the basic values of Turkey, the unity of our nation, and the identity of our nation. The process is a becca problem as it is. The process is a period in which the government, which has admitted its failure to fight terrorism, first negotiates with terrorism, then deals with terrorism. Do not describe these words as the bearer sentences that I have formed because we are the opposition. With the opening process, the government's policies and the strategic goals of the terrorist organisation must be seen. The AKP has launched an ethnic-based opening process, leading to PKK's strategic goals. The process has progressed with concessions to the terrorist organization. Today, the situation has reached the arming of the PKK and even the military. While all these developments are clear, the unprepared, narrowed-down programme of the 62nd government includes many new problems for the Turkish nation. This programme threatens the support, unity, and unity of the Turkish nation. For this reason, irresponsibility has been brought to those who enforced the law on expression. The 62nd Government Programme shows that the 12-year-old AKP government's wrongs will continue in foreign policy. It seems that the foreign policy of the 62nd government will continue to traffic in dreams, closing the swamp and destruction of foreign policy. A strong and respected Turkey target of the 62nd Government Programme does not match the facts. As a matter of fact, Turkey is said to be unable to be compressed between certain regions and continents in foreign policy, while today, the truth has become compressed to its borders. The programme has become a country that is no longer consulted in its own territory, not only is it a foreign policy mission expressed in terms of helping the oppressed, the victims, the refugees, and the needy. The AKP has been involved in an approach that violates foreign policy, ignoring Turkishness, based on personal ambition and interests, not national interests. The foreign policy conceptualization expressed in the programme is no more than an empty propaganda tool. The Turkish foreign policy direction will be turned to disorientation by the AKP's 12 years of foreign policy accounting. The AKP, which is conducted through concepts and rhetoric, tries to move blindly through foreign policy, contradictions and ambiguities. There was no strategic depth at this time, and in the five sea basins in central Turkey, there were holes. The foreign policy adventure, which began with strategic depth and zero problems, has become precious loneliness, and the precious loneliness is sailing toward the poor loneliness. The AKP's foreign policy is an unstable foreign policy that is shaped according to the situation, which does not protect our national interests. The AKP government's foreign policy, which says it is implementing the zero problem policy, gives the opposite results of what is said and intended. The government programme states that Turkey's foreign policy preferences as a leading country are being followed. We are clearly cautious of that view. This ideal framework, drawn in foreign policy, has not appeared at any time in the past 12 years, in which case Turkey's foreign policy issues would be set to a solution in line with national interests. From this point of view, we have to ask: Is it Turkey's national interest to support terrorist organizations that cause regional instability in the Middle East? Is it Turkey's national interest to lead a Kurdish state north of Iraq, to offer any economic, diplomatic, military support for it? Is Turkey's national interest that almost no country has established peace and trust in the geography of Turkey's historical ties? Is it in Turkey's national interest to interfere in the internal affairs of Muslim and friendly countries? The most important foreign policy mission in a state is to maintain sovereignty and the safety of its citizens. The government programme has no security policy. The programme does not have a public explanation for the government's cards against the PKK, Barzani and American activity in the region. There is no statement in the programme regarding PKK camps in northern Iraq. The government is clearly unable to ensure the safety and interests of our country. Obviously, there's no policy that can be implemented if the opening policy fails. Turkey's main agenda of its foreign policy axis today is relations with Middle Eastern countries. We also see that the 62nd Government Programme has a wide share in the Middle East. However, the expression used in this field is a repetition of the views and approaches that have so far been defended and explained. However, as a result of earlier policies, the country where our relations are good in the Middle East is almost extinct. The programme does not include any testimony to amend relations with the Middle East countries. The programme does not have any statements about the ISIS crisis. The actions of ISIS's terrorist organization, the biggest obstacle to status quo in the Middle East, are directly related to Turkey, while the government does not have a programme on this issue is a major flaw. The ISIS terrorist organization has the responsibility and the wrongs of the government from the start to the end of what has happened to our citizens who have been held hostage for three months. Another lack of foreign policy in the Government Programme is the Turkmen in Iraq and Syria. Hundreds of thousands of Turkmen are forced to emigrate, while thousands of Turkishmen are dying of hunger and thirst. Unfortunately, the government does not show interest or interest in other people to our Turkmen kinsmen. In contrast, there has been no solution for more than 1.5 million Syrians who have come to our country because of the turmoil in Syria to travel as if they were a loose mine in various cities of the country. Meanwhile, pressure, persecution and genocide attempts against the Uygur Turks in East Turkistan are not part of the Government Programme. The metric for the Uygur Turks has been increasing since 2009. The Turkish government must take a decisive stance to stop the attacks immediately, but there are no words in the government programme. Again, the government has no roadlines on Cyprus. As it may be remembered, after a one-and-a-half-year break, talks that began again in February 2014 were presented to the public as last chance by sensory engineers. However, there is no place for the last chance term in negotiations. Besides, why should we solve the Cyprus issue during Mr. Erdoğan's term as Prime Minister? It's also thought that he made a statement like that this year. Why does the solution have to be this year and why won't the negotiations get another chance? In short, what's the rush? These are some of the questions that confuse the minds. As it is known, in recent years, the importance of the island of Cyprus has folded a little bit more as part of natural gas drilling activities, and the island has entered the radar of international forces. In particular, Hunter Biden, son of U.S. Vice President Joe Biden, states the fact that he is under the management of the Ukrainian Burisma Holdings, located in Limasol, the capital of the Greek Cypriot administration of southern Cyprus. Burisma Holdings Limited is a company that operates in the field of oil and gas exploration and production. The island of Cyprus is no longer just an issue trapped in the traditional Turkish-Greek-British triangle. The island now has accounts for the United States, the European Union, Russia and Israel. In parallel with the changing balances of power, the Western world seeks to engage in the Cyprus issue with all its institutions and resources. Another issue in our foreign policy is the issue of dominance in the Aegean islands, and unfortunately, the government has remained silent about it and has never touched on it in its programme. The issue, which had been a red line in the past, was greenened by the AKP government, while the disputed islands in the Aegean were occupied by Greece, while the government remained silent. Although the programme had a 100th year in 2015, there was no action against the Armenians and those who collaborated with them against the allegations of Armenian genocide. The 62nd Government Programme does not have a complete economic approach. The government, on the one hand, aims to increase savings, while on the other hand, talks about increasing investments and debt on the basis of Turkish lira. In the government programme, 250 billion dollars in public resources in the five-year period have not been announced as well as $350 billion in investments with public private cooperation. The structural problems of the economy have deepened in 12 years, structural problems unresolved. There's no sign of the production economy. In this environment, the budget does not provide a healthy structure. The state of the economy, the primordial economy, in one sentence: Turkey's economy is an economy that consumes more than it produces, spends more than it earns, translates the economy based on debt and imports, is an open and current and dependent foreign trade deficit, austerity deficit and unhealthy budget structure. However, the government wants to bring happiness out of the pain, such as the advice of psychologists, saying to the economy that it's good all the time. We have become a land of debt. The expression of power is nothing more than a delusion, like the superstition of the afterlife. In 12 years, however, Turkey's debt increased dangerously. For example, consider the debts of our citizens: From 2002 to today, the cash loan to banks has increased 22 times. From 2002 to 2014, the debt to the household has increased more than 55 stories. The private sector's foreign debt increased six times, while in 2002 it was $43 billion, while 2014 was $264.9 billion as of the first quarter. Turkey's economy has fallen into debt. And you're talking about getting up and lending money. The government is a beggar who collects and distributes in Sultanahmet, Libya, Syria. The AKP boasts how much it owes its citizen, tradesman, farmer. In 2002, we give 154 million loans, while in 2002 we give you 10 billion credits. The debt has increased 60 times. The farmer's debts rose from 530m euros to 40 billion euros as of September 2012. According to this, farmers' debt has increased 75 times in your time. In addition, growing goals in 12 years have never held up. In 12 years of perspective, the average growth rate is 5 percent and is lower than your predecessors. In recent years, 110 countries worldwide have performed a better growth performance than Turkey. In this programme, you talk about the free functioning of the economy in competitive environment, the equality of opportunity, the lack of concessions and privileges, the fact that you don't create an easy-earning area for anyone, but the pools that have been created, the bribes that have been distributed, the tenders that have been given to allies, the efforts to prevent corruption investigations, the pressures of the businessmen, the pressures of tax reviews, the threats that you make. September 1st, lack of surveillance has revealed who you're protecting. We've established an understanding that can account for the state administration. You say, "But you're missing the Court reports from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey," and you say, "Woe to us if there's a record report on the phones." You speak of the strong economic structure, but without the state of law, there is no strong economy. You rebut yourself in the words of your own Minister of Economics, who says, "There is no strong economy." This is a clear discrepancy. You haven't been able to come up with a common and compatible view of interest as a government. Some of you are knocking down the Central Bank, while some of you are taking care of the Central Bank. ▪ We will continue to encourage our private sector and implement policies that will pave the way for our entrepreneurs. In addition to maintaining macroeconomic stability, macro and micropolitics will be the priority of the economy to increase its resistance to external factors, to increase competition and efficiency in the industry of goods and services, to facilitate access to cheap financing resources. You say. However, marblers in Afyon have been waiting for permission from the government to run and export the marble furnace for two years. All permits for mining were waiting at Mr. Erdogan's desk. Which contractor's opening up? Existing contractors and Turkey's leading giant companies -- for example TEPRAS -- are subject to tax reviews. Business is being tagged and discriminated against. The media reports on which of them will be pressured through tax reviews. As a nation, everyone's in deep debt, and the amount of people who can't pay their loans is up 25 percent in six months, and you're encouraging debt with dollars or other money, but you're also saying you're going to increase savings. You give the program some goals, but you don't give them the strategies to achieve them. You're missing the fact that for us to grow by 10 percent every year on the dollar, other countries have to stand still. According to data shared by Mr. Ali Babacan on July 8th, Mr. Ali Babacan must pay $210-220 billion in foreign debt in the next 12 months, and 55-65 billion in open financing is needed. For the past three years, we've had a low growth rate economy. I remind you that at a high level of 8.8% in 2011, there has been a severe decline in a figure of 2.1% in 2012. The Treasury Undersecretary envisions average growth at 5 per cent for 2015 and 2016. The per capita income has been at $10,000 since 2010. Our citizens' debt to banks reached $1 trillion 100 billion in 2002 from $49 billion to June 2014. The citizens' debt to the banks has increased 22 times. The total savings rate has dropped from 18.6% to 12.6 per cent. In addition, economic policies of the 12-year AKP's government have brought the cost of life. That is enough to see the high price increases in markets, grocery stores, how employees and pensioners' buying power fell 12 years ago. Twelve-year-old AKP government has raised electricity, bread, bus tickets to gas, diesel, white cheese, tea, bulgur, veal, natural gas, olives, eggs, flour, rice and pasta from 150 per cent to 400 per cent. Our citizens' debt to banks has increased 22 times in 12 years. In 2002, the figure increased to 55.2 TL, while the citizen earmarked only 4.7 TL for every 100 Turkish liras. Although the country's population increased by 10 per cent during the Erdogan administrations, agricultural areas were reduced by 11 per cent. In seventy-three years from 1923 to 2002, the total foreign trade deficit amounted to $267 billion in twelve years to $687 billion. In 2002, our country ranked as the world's top 40th in the current open ranking, while today it became the world's top five most profitable countries. The total domestic and external debt increased from 257 billion to 635 billion euros, up by 2.5. These figures nakedly reveal where AKP's economic policies brought Turkey. While the government's economic goals are being described, the programme, which was used in its subtitle "The Strong Economy of New Turkey," "As the 62nd Government, we will continue effectively implementing our economic policies, which have now become an international achievement example." When it is said, this painting is ignored. When the government's pink painting in the economy is read backwards, the footsteps of a serious economic crisis are heard in Turkey. There's an unregistered cost of life on the market. It is not possible to comfort our people with charity, packaging, and parcels when they are struggling for a living. Wasted resources are about to run out. In our non-profit economy, the current will grow even bigger. As a matter of fact, the number of people given state support has been expressed as 3 million. The reality of the situation is clearer when we include citizens who have received cash from municipalities and the same assistance. As a matter of fact, 247,213 people have been paid in 2013 under various names such as cash, food, education, clothing, housing, health care, coal relief, through the Association for Social Aid from Samsun Governorate. It turns out that nearly half of Samsun, with a population of 1,261,810, has received help from the government in some way, given that the people who received help received it for a family, and when it was multiplied by at least 2 a.m. Don't you find it odd that our citizens are so needy and boasted of human development that they're talking about helping them? What we're going to say in conclusion is that Turkey will not come out of the abyss brought by the AKP, and from this sad painting, which is unique, and from the 62th government's programme, Turkey will not be the new Turkey, even if it were defeated Turkey. The AKP government recently ran out of IMF debt. But let's see what the truth is: according to Treasury Undersecretary data, the gross public debt supply, which was 155 billion dollars in 2002, increased by 2014 to 436 billion TL. During the same period, the gross foreign debt stock rose from 102 billion dollars to 199 billion euros. The total supply of EU-defined gross debt increased from 259 billion dollars to 578 billion euros in the same period. Again, according to the Central Bank data, local residents, including the IMF debt, were owed 80 billion $664 million in loans to foreigners, while the debt reached 215 billion $228m by the end of 2013. As of the end of the first half of 2014, the debt amount is 219 billion, 713 million dollars. According to Central Bank data from 2002 to 2014, an even worse situation arises when international investment position statistics are examined. In 2002, domestic residents, Turks, had $62 billion $270 million in assets abroad, while foreigners had $147 billion,779 million in assets in our country. So, 85 billion and 509 million dollars were on the table. As of the end of the first half of 2014, Turkish assets abroad rose to $229 billion 951 million. The existence of foreigners in our country has risen to 652 billion dollars, $917 million. So the deficit is exactly $422 billion 962 million. So almost all foreigners have taken over the country financially. In other words, what foreigners are going to get from our country is 652 billion dollars, 917 million dollars. Now, can we just be happy that the IMF debt is over in front of this painting? Meanwhile, the fact that the monthly budget has not been announced since July marks the decline of the budget. Whether this is true or not, it will soon reveal the sale of public assets under the name "specialization" or the new increases in taxes, especially in the name of "ETV." Our agricultural sectors and farmers have received the biggest share of AKP's wrong economic policies. Agriculture and agricultural benefits have dropped their share in national income, and the agricultural fields that have been harvested have been reduced. The price of diesel and input has left the farmer unable to produce, and the price of what he produces has become unrequited. Entrance prices rose above inflation, while product prices remained below inflation. Twelve years ago, the farmer's promise of green diesel was not fulfilled. In 2002, diesel, which averaged 1 lira, was raised to 4.5 liras today. Farmers' debt to cooperatives and Agriculture Bank has increased from $530m to $40 billion. Our farmers' debts have increased 80fold. His debt to private banks is out of the question. While the farmer was in deep debt, the decision of the Council of Ministers of August 29, 2014 was decided to allow the agricultural support of farmers who owed electricity to their electricity debts. The power has stopped thinking about the farmer, and has become the collector of private electricity companies. One of the most tragic expressions in the government programme is the expression of a decisive fight against corruption in the past period. Corruption has passed from the neck of the 61st government to the neck of the 62nd government. Although the programme said that Turkey's corruption detection index, published by the International Transparency of Transparency, ranked 77th among the 133 countries in 2003, raised to 50th in 2013, the data was disclosed in November 2013, before December 17th and December 25th. I think the real ranking will come out in November 2014. However, it must not be forgotten that both the abuses of the tender and the courts will be issued without a warrant, but the Urla villas, the Agaoğlu estates, the donations to TÜRGEV, the media pool, 17-25 December corruption allegations will be raised again. There is a situation that has been fulfilled, even though it is described as improper listening, and the accountability of this is the plague and responsibility of the future authorities, even though it does not exist. Interestingly, after the emergence of these corruption and irregularities, power has begun to prosecute the bureaucrats they've brought into office to accuse him of treason. In a normal and righteous state, police pursued thieves, while thieves pursued police in the AKP's timeline. Afraid of being caught red-handed and panicked, the ruling owners are sadly tempted to pull a coup from corruption. They started complaining about the coup d'état, how naive they were, what they wanted, and what they didn't give. Therefore, the AKP has tried to transform power, institutions, rules and concepts into political and personal interests. During their 12-year reign, they said that they had not gone separately, but that they did not recognize and were wrong. If you don't recognize those closest to you in this time, you'll be admitting that you'll make the same mistakes when you run the government. Although the government's Programmes have not given us authority and privilege, we have not created an easy money-making area. There is an important rich section that suddenly emerges during the AKP ruling period, and they must be explained how they came to this level. Also, since you speak of strong will in the fight against corruption, it would be wise to immediately bring to justice the files of suspects of corruption and bribery scandals that have been held in the House. In the community, various tremors, meaningless behaviors and different attitudes have begun to show itself in many areas. This concept, which has been referred to as the new sociology of new Turkey, can be read in another way: the middle class, which struggles with its livelihood, against humanities, has been compressed in Turkish blocs, its workforce, without a share in the pool, can be read by young people who can't get rid of the future: the middle class, the 16th-year-old girl who has died in a state-old state-of-the-the-art state-of-the-of-the-the-art state-of-of-the-the-the-of-the-the-the-of-the-the-subsubscescescestileness-of-the-of-the-the-of-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-scestileness-of-of-the-the-the-st-the-the-of-the-the-the-the-stitscestitstilestilestileness-of-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-of-of-the-the-the-the-stststst-of-of-of-of-st-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-of-the-the-of-of-the-stst-the-of-stit-of-of-the-the-the-of-of-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-of-the-the-the-the-the-of-the-the-of-the-the-the-the-the-the-of-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-st-the-the-of-the-the-of-of-the-stit-of-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-of-of-of-of-st-of-st-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the- The symbol of the founding of the Republic is that the Prime Minister wants to be seated in the Chankaya Mansion, with disrespect to the founder, history, and history of this country. To pay condolences to Soma, who is in pain, to go and slap his fellow man, to let him be kicked, to talk about human development, not looking down on the people, not looking down on them, and solving problems, When the trial is interfered with, when it touches Zulfüyüya, there's a number of cases where prosecutors and prosecutors are removed from duty, separated the families, left their homes, and talked about justice and human development. At six o'clock, there were children on the road who were still in bilateral education in the 21st century, It's now called TEOG (TeoG from Basic Education to Middle School) with children placed in schools hundreds of miles away from the mistakes you've made. Despite having earned rights, the school principals, vice principals, thousands of administrators in the Ministry of National Education, who have completed four years in the schools in which they feel that they are not close to the government, have been dismissed by unlawful procedure. Despite the lack of infrastructure for every student, under the name of the FATHIH Project in education, the tablet has been distributed to computers for political purposes, and the nation's billions of dollars have been wasted. The number of people in power who have not even remembered the number of years, the guarantee of our country's future is that our children's education systems, the tests they've taken, have been turned into a sabbatical board. In the opening ceremony of the year, when you-I was led by the trial, and the government was shown resentment, and the government didn't attend, The acronym for the country's name, the.T.C., has been removed from the name of the state's official institutions, by disturbing those who run it. In the last three years, the number of children married without turning 18 has exceeded 130,000. There are no problems with the neighbors, no problems with the neighbors, no problems with the foreign policy, and as a result of that, 1.5 million Syrian refugees are walking around our country at any moment like a bomb ready to go off. While almost everyone in the country has heard the most intimate information in the country, where its word is not heard by foreign states, where it opens embassies in Africa, where its name is not heard, where there are no embassies at a most critical time in its nearest neighbours; are you going to become a new Turkey, where terrorist consulates have been occupied by terrorists for more than three months, whose members have invaded the land, have been made a headquarters of people and a fundamental policy that military reports where its land is meant to be strengthened and unreachable? Look, I'm warning you! The Republic of Turkey, which you call the Old Turkey, was founded in 1923 by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends, and was founded with a sound foundation. New Turkey is the equivalent of wanting to destroy the Republic of Turkey. Mr. Powers, it would be in the best interest of you and our country to consider these criticisms. Sitting around and thinking about it will lessen your mistakes. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Again, on behalf of the National Movement Party, I wish the government to serve and succeed without custody. I hereby salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0011par0162	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Hurşit Sun is the MP from Kopeeli. Here you go, Mr. Sun.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0012par0166	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party regarding the 62nd Government Programme, and I salute you all. First of all, I want to make a point: I've just tried to count how many people in the AKP group are finding 30 people difficult because it's about the Government Program. Hopefully, when they enter the elections next semester, our people will be as interested in their power or party as they are in their own government programs! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, first of all, we'd like to know who created this government. The number of ministers from the 61st government to the 62nd government is 4. I also listened to a few of those ministers' statements, and a few of them thanked Mr. President for his kindness. More importantly, there has been another incident: The Government Programme has been prepared, so we've heard it in the papers -- so it can be thanked to the President -- because in the end, he gives power to the government, but the Constitution does, but as a draft that I've never heard of when the Government Programme went to the President -- Deputy Prime Minister Babacan of the Economics section of the Government said that there is no strong economy without the government state. He wrote in the text, and he wrote it, and he said that there should be no more corruption. We want to know if it's true or false. I'll say the real Prime Minister Davutoglu, or the mansion, but he's gone to another palace, and we want to know if Mr. Erdogan is sitting there. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, a new Turkey has been leaving for a while. In fact, we know what you're saying with the new Turkey. You say, "Turkey is the new Turkey," and you say, "Turkey is the one where everything Erdoğan has said is appointed by him." Dear lawmakers, there is talk of a constitution in the Government Programme, and it is called a new constitution. Here comes all the articles from September 12th from the Constitution. Yes, there is not much left of this Constitution from September 12th, but 17 times, 113 articles have been changed. Be realistic. What is your understanding of the new constitution? The presidential system, that's all you want. Yes, in Turkey, who is not a member of the AKP, tell me a professor of constitutional law so that the presidential system is suitable for Turkey. Let one say, an unelected constitutional law professor. All constitutional law professors say the Presidential system is not suitable for Turkey. Dear lawmakers, there's been talk of an elected President, a thesis in the past few weeks. Everyone has been elected, national will, 52 per cent of the vote... The elected MPs were arrested for years, how did you get them to stay in prison? If the Supreme Court hadn't interfered and eliminated this injustice, they wouldn't be able to come and sit here now. So the national will applies to the President, but it doesn't apply to the MPs. That's not true. Dear friends, I want to point out something important in terms of the Republican People's Party. We, the CHP, do not question the President's legitimacy, we respect that office very much, make no mistake about it here. What we're saying is that if the President doesn't obey the law, we say we're in favor of the Constitution and the law, that's what we're saying. Dear lawmakers, when there is a parliamentary system in the Constitution, that's not going to happen if you try to apply the presidential system; it's going to shift the regime's spine. A dislocated spine regime can't stand it, it collapses. In a sense, it's like this: you're going up on the football field, you're going to play football, you're going to play cricket. Yeah, that's what the bleachers would be surprised and the judge would be surprised. You're playing the wrong thing in the wrong place. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to tell you about a leader, and I'll see if you can get this leader out. In each election, this leader wins the election by a large margin, giving opposition parties no notice. He appoints the prime minister, he appoints the cabinet. He removed all the so-called custody and became his sole guardian. Every Friday he prays in a separate mosque -- God willing -- he makes statements on the way out, and there's an intelligence organization in the country that's loyal to this leader; a very powerful intelligence organization that no one can touch, can track, play anyone everywhere. There's also the official news agency, the government's official news agency. This state's official news agency shows only the ruling party or its leader in particular, not much room for opposition parties. There are a lot of TV channels, but most of them are hers, and only those on those networks are allowed by her or her ministers. We, the Republican People's Party, are very opposed to this regime and this leader. Now, you probably think of that person, don't you? No, this is Bashir Assad I'm talking about. There is such a regime in the land of Bezar Assad, and we are opposed to such a regime as Bezar Assad. See, the picture, I don't know.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0013par0180	No, show me again.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0012par0181	He didn't show up?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0014par0182	Your own friends didn't understand either.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0012par0183	I'll show you, it's classy. We didn't do it, the Economist magazine did it on the cover, The Economist magazine did it on the cover.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0015par0184	Let the government see it, and show it to the government.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0012par0185	Dear friends, a new Turkey is chewing gum. Come, I'll try to tell you about the new Turkey and the old Turkey with some numbers. Now, the government program has a vision of 2023. It's said that in the year 2023, we're going to be among the 10 major economies of the world. I've done an account, let's see how it works. You know, in recent years, the average Turkish economy has grown by 3.5 per cent since 2007. Let's say it's seven, let's say it's seven, let's say it's more, let's say it's eight. If we keep growing by 8 percent and the economies above us go into recession, in 2023, we don't get into the world's 10 largest economies, but we go from 16 to 13. Look at the extent of the deception, in the government program! They're gonna come out, they're gonna be all over those TV stations, they're gonna be singing, they're gonna be selling dreams. Dear friends, while you were an apprentice in ancient Turkey -- while you were still in power, between 2002 and 2006 -- the economy grew by 7.2 percent, with the contribution of enormous global liquidity. That's a nice performance. Then you mastered it, you advanced it. What's it supposed to be? Economic growth will be even higher, won't it? No, it's down to 3.5, 3.5 percent of average growth from 2007 to today. Yeah, the more you master it, the less performance in the economy, the slower the economy gets. And there's something even worse: when you were an apprentice, the current current rate for that growth was half the deficit given in old Turkey. By God, the more you master it, the worse things are gonna get. Dear friends, at the end of 2003 -- in ancient Turkey -- the number of unemployed in Turkey was 2 million 493. If you don't look for a job at that time, you won't find one. But of course, if you find a job, you'll work. You know what today is? Today's data was released in the last May: 2 million 551,000. What's worse is that the desperate are up to 2.5 million, so 1.5 million more people say I can't get a job in this time of power anymore, so don't look for it for nothing. The number of unemployed in your former Turkey was 3.4 million, 5 million today. I didn't make this up, I didn't get it from any union, I didn't get it from any... Let me tell you about another Turkey: has the national income increased? It's up. Is this government a success? If you look at it that way, it's a success. Let's look at the state of the citizen. In your former Turkey, the debt of the citizen was 3.4 per cent of the disposable income. It's a new Turkey, and you know where that debt came from, 57 percent. Yeah, you guys owe people money. And since you've made it a debt, each of your ministers is giving a separate role so the Central Bank can take down interest. Why don't you reduce the debt instead of the interest? Let the people get rid of the debt. Dear MPs, in the old Turkey, remember, there was a financial crisis in 1994. You remember how that happened, don't you? The Prime Minister said to the Undersecretary of the Treasury, "Faziz should be. " The financial balances broke and the crisis broke. Now it seems that old Turkey's habits have been compromised. Look, the Central Bank has lost its independence, each minister is stealing from a separate wire, a government like the Bremen Humiliators, says one of them says, "I'm not going to make a sound," and one of them says, "I'm not going to make a sound," and one says, "I'm not going to make a sound, it's all wrong." He's not here right now, he's not sitting around, so I checked to see if he's sitting here. Dear friends, Mr. Prime Minister -- I have to say that the government also said that the revenue distribution has improved in its presentation, and he gave me numbers, and I looked at the numbers. Now I'll tell you the real numbers: in 2003, the poorest 20 percent of Turkey received 6 per cent of the national income, and 2006 was the same number, three or five more, and today the same. He also received 48 per cent of the most wealthy national income, then dropped to 47. In 2006, the same today. There's been no improvement in revenue distribution, no bullshit, no change. What I understand, Mr. Prime Minister, is that when the TÜİK broadcasts come in front of you -- he likes to smell it -- he sniffs out the bulletins, but he doesn't open it up, he doesn't open it up, he doesn't read it, he understands, because I've seen in the AKP Group that I love to smell the paper. He said, he'd like to open it once in a while. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, the Government Programme, the Tenth Development Programme, says there will be 250 billion public investments in five years between 2014 and 2018. Oh, shame on you! Yeah, that's an imaginary number. So, when you're making these imaginary channels, you can't reach that number in this economic conjunctive, in this world conjunctive, and that's just imagination trafficking. The solution process is described as one of the most important parts of the new Turkey. We don't know what the process is, no one knows, and the Chief of Staff said they didn't know. Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Deputy Group Chairman Pervin Buldan also recently said: "I have called him and not been able to make an appointment with Bashir Atalay. We want to know the road map of September 30th. He said, "They don't know." Now, it appears that the House has been disabled in this process of resolving. It is impossible to admit that a peace process when parliament has been disabled is also democratic. Dear MPs, the Kurdish issue is part of Turkey's democracy and human rights problem. In Turkey, the Kurdish problem cannot be solved not only with Kurds, but only with the state. The Kurdish problem can only be met by a great compromise, with the gathering of all parts of the population, and it can be met permanently. That's where he'll be provided in the parliamentary system, the resolution process should come here. Dear lawmakers, the 9 per cent of Turkish native language is without primary school diplomas, while the main language of Kurdish is 46 per cent without primary school diplomas. Ten per cent of Turkish native speakers have a higher education degree, while 2 per cent of Kurdish native speakers have a higher education degree. See, every summer from the southeast, we have no insurance or roofs to go to the Army to pick nuts for them, to pick cotton for Adana. With all this misery going on, can these facts be solved as much as the Kurdish problem? With the weapons dropped, the Kurdish issue would not be solved, just a truce with him. To solve the Kurdish problem, our Kurdish citizens must have freedom and justice. And there's no way that power can take steps in this matter.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0016par0200	Before, you didn't even say the word "Kurt" in your mouth.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0012par0201	There are people of every ethnic background in this country, and we are all valued citizens of the Republic of Turkey, equally valued citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let me be clear that the area where the AKP government has failed is foreign policy. Unfortunately, this is the blackest period in the history of the Republic because the captain of foreign policy is an adventurer. The sad thing is, this captain was promoted to prime minister, but he didn't accept Çankaya. Look, wherever in the world 49 diplomats are taken hostage by terrorists, the foreign minister of that country will resign immediately. Whereas -- almost three months have passed -- the press ban has been imposed on this issue, and it has not been satisfied with it, as I have just said, this Secretary of State has been promoted to Deputy Secretary of State, and it's very sad. Dear friends, there was no civil war in Syria in 2002, today. 9 million people left their homes in Syria today, 3 million people living as refugees, and half of that is in Turkey. The number of deaths in Syria is more than 200,000. Now, let's look at the truth, dear friends. Didn't we learn in 2011 that the government armed the opposition in Syria? The world knew it, and we didn't know it, but when we lit up the dark Apocalypse camp, it all started to come out. The missile warheads going by trucks, the perpetrator of sarin gas captured in Adana, the real perpetrator of the bomb that went off in Reyhan, are Al Qaeda... look, we still know the number of Turks fighting in Syria, not the number of Turks fighting with the opposition. Their dead come here, their bodies come here, their identities aren't revealed. The borders are all over the place. This week's Economist magazine reported that terrorists had crossed three points to Turkey, that ISIS terrorists had passed three points, that Akchakale had passed through Reyhanlı, and that it was shameful! And those Al Qaeda guys were treated in hospitals in Turkey. Finally, ISIS, the world's largest terrorist organization, was formed in the region. These are tourists in Turkey at night, terrorists in Syria and Iraq during the day. That ISIS persecuted our Turkmen brothers in Iraq for months, slaughtered them in Mosul, Tuzhurmatu, and brutally slaughtered them. They did not receive any help from the government. That is the truth. Why? The same reason again? Again with the cult? What a shame! Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to ask this government two key questions. First: On September 2, 2012, in İstanbul, the director of the CIA, Peter, had more than four hours with the Undersecretary of MIT Hakan Fidan. What was discussed over four hours related to Syria? Dear friends, my second question is: On May 16, 2013, Prime Minister Erdogan, who later left his post as acting minister, Attorney General Hakan Fidan, and Washington are meeting with US President Obama. They are not taking in the Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey. Why, why don't they take it? Where are the records of this meeting? See, there's a rumor that they say, "Obama, we know what you're doing there with radicals." Is that true? If that's true, it's very bad. Mr. Prime Minister, I want you to know that we will be after you in Turkey until the public finds out the truth. The public must know all the facts. Dear lawmakers, our relations with our Western allies are not improving. Our relations with the United States are not what they used to be. That's the truth, let's be clear. The President's sworn-in ceremony was sent to the United States by only one Maslahatgüzar. Merkel did not describe Turkey as a friendly country, and it seems Turkey's EU membership is now far, far away. Dear MPs, look, I'll try to show you what we've come up with in the outside world with an important event. Which heads of state arrived at the president's oath ceremony: Benin, Togo, Ivory Coast, Rwanda, Chad, Komors, Burkina Faso. Does anyone know where they are on the map? Does anyone know the population of these? Does anyone know who the president of the Komors is? Yes, your reputation is in these countries, but the representatives sent to you by other countries show the point Turkey has come to in foreign policy. Dear friends, we have a grave situation because Mr. Davutoglu has a dream. From the Ottomans who dominated the seven jihandas, he pronounced Turkey going to a restoration in 2014. But I want to remind you that there's a difference between a dream and a dream. A dreamer gets up in the morning and I dream. He says, "The truth is different." The prime minister is delusional. The downside is, the dreamer always thinks it's real, walks around with him day and night, doesn't know it's not real. The prime minister, Mr. Davutoglu, ignores that Misakimilli is a historical fact and an indispensable frontier within the international system. I would like to remind Mr. Davutoglu that delusional leaders, dreamers, will lead not only to their own country, but also to the people of other countries. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, about Gaza, it was the government, it roared, but it didn't rain. 2,147 people died in Gaza, eventually there was a ceasefire, but Turkey had no serious role in securing the truce, which was not the government's. Gaza is still in blockade. Well, let's see how this blockade works; does it have a legal basis? Remember, in 2010 there was the incident with the Blue Marmara, when the incident with the Blue Marmara happened, when the government went from Turkey to the United Nations, demanding a commission, saying: "Send us a commission, assign us a commission, let this Blue Marmara study, let him study Gaza. The Palmer Commission formed, and Turkey gave a representative, and the Commission added to the end of its report that the blockade was justified and necessary." On top of that, our representative sat down and wrote the evil of the opposition. He did, but it was too late, and the Palmer Commission had a legal basis, which the government provided. So when Gaza was going to Dimyat, our Muslim brothers and sisters in Gaza became the finders. Now that they're screaming, it's empty, it's empty. The legal basis of the blockade in Gaza was, in a sense, due to this government. Dear MPs, dear friends, the government programme says that 2023 vision will be achieved by human resources. How's that? With training, of course. Now, in education -- even the lawmakers who caught me -- look at the humiliation: 1,300,000 people are taking the test, basic education to middle education -- so you know all the problems, and I'll tell you the irony of it -- the non-Muslim student imam-hating high school, he's going crazy, he's going crazy! Yeah, the situation with this national education system is a disaster, and now there are tragic, tragic scenes. Now, I see in the papers, they write the words of the former Maarif Nazir Emrullah Effendi. What good would I have done without these schools. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's been another incident this week. Farmer owes money, electricity debt. Why do you have it? Why do you have it? That's what the farmer is for. They're going to pay off the farmer's electricity debt, and they're trying to cut off the support bonus. What a disgrace, what a betrayal! How do you cut off the farmer's electricity debt from another man? How's he gonna farm? Doesn't this government think about the farmer or the peasant? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm going to tell you something interesting, if you'll excuse me. As soon as the Prime Minister of the era becomes President, the consultant he's been taking to the Mansion, everyone knows that, right? He's a fancy counselor.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0017par0215	Jelly, jelly!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0012par0216	This consultant wrote a column in the Star newspaper on May 26, 2014 -- you know what kind of newspaper it is -- and compared the prime minister of the era to Sadrazam Mahmoud Nedim Pasha, but did not explain why in the article. Look, this is Sadrazam Mahmoud Nedim Pasha. Now, I'm looking at a resemblance between Sadrazam Mahmoud Pasha and the Prime Minister, and I can't find it, and he didn't mention it in the article. Now he's President, Prime Minister of the Age. Of course, I don't know, I don't know, there's a historian professor here, Mr. Halaçoglu, he'll be here in a minute. I, frankly, would like to take on the Prime Minister, like Big Sinan Pasha, from the sharazams, and tell him why, Mr. Halaçoglu, why I beat him. Dear lawmakers, this administration has shown corruption in the first place as one of the areas of the struggle, but is most likely accused of corruption. Look, about the wiretaps, the minister -- he was the minister of that era -- said on January 28, 2009: "Don't be afraid to rest unless you have an illegal job." Right, I agree with that, we shouldn't be afraid to rest if we don't have an illegal job. But when the Prime Minister of the Age was launched on 17 December 2013, he cried out, "How will the Prime Minister listen to my phone?" Then there's the other thing. Now, I, for example, talk to my daughter, my kids on the regular phone, and I'm tapped, and I don't have an illegal job, but I don't talk to my kids on a cryptophone. (CHP) Now, why is the Prime Minister talking to his children on the cryptophone, he needs to explain that. Now, dear friends, when a man faces an unjust accusation or face a false accusation, he goes to judgment. See, that's what the 11th President did. As soon as his mission was over, he said: "There is one thing, I will go, I will testify to the judicial authorities about him. " But what was done then? It wasn't done, it was brought to trial, they shattered the judiciary, the judiciary was troubled, but the suspects didn't disappear, and the suspects grew. Dear lawmakers, there are 56,156 people convicted of corruption, theft, and intimidation in Turkey. I looked, I got the numbers from the Justice Department. Some of them are in Kandira Type F Prison. You know, I'm a cheater. Now, there are rumors coming to me from Kandira F-type Prison, my countrymen. All of these prisoners there say: "We are innocent, we have not committed theft, the parallel government has conspired against us; all of this is Hashshashi; a government must come to them who must go into their den and root them out and release us immediately." (CHP clapping in rows) Understand now. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I don't want to talk too much about the fact that I'm the government's so-called parallel state. You know why? It's a family matter, it's a matter of privacy. I don't need to talk too much about a family's personal issues, but I can't help but think about a few things. Now, I would like to read an explanation of the head of this parallel state, which is called Hashishhi, about the head of Pennsylvania, and a statement from one person after a meeting, and he says: "When it comes to America, I, if possible, would like to pay a visit to the teacher if I could. I brought it up before I went to the Prime Minister. If I get the chance, I'd like to make a visit like this, if you'll excuse me, if you'll excuse me. He's very pleased. In fact, he said, "I wish we could see each other, too." But his schedules were very busy. He continues to say: "He gave us a great compliment, and he took it as a friend. We've seen that our past friendship has never been less, maybe more. And his opinion of our government, our Prime Minister. He wants us to be more successful, to be more cautious and careful, to be sensitive in both world policy and in some ways to the events around us, in our region.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0018par0222	Who is it?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0019par0223	Who is it, Hashishi?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0012par0224	Do you know who that is? This meeting was held exactly seven months before the corruption operation, on May 15, 2013, by Mr. Bulent Arinc, who lived here, and was reported by him. (CHP turns) Exactly seven months ago.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0020par0225	Who of you has left? Tell them, tell them who's gone of you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0021par0226	Tell me what's going on with you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0012par0227	That's not what we're saying when we're gone. No corruption investigations, no corruption charges, nothing like that. Dear lawmakers, the Government Programme is talking about justice again, judicial reform again. How many judicial reforms do you love God? You also did a judicial reform in 2010, you had a referendum, and you changed both members of the HSYK and the Supreme Court. Then what happened? When these people don't act the way you want them to, now you're trying to change it again. At the time, you were saying that it was the guardian, and now it's an excuse for the parallel state. Dear friends, the true intentions are clear. It's about justice, not justice. They want a judgment that will comply with everything they've been told, under the tutelage of power. See, in the Government Programme, the prime minister said about the Academy of Justice: "We have an Academy of Justice which does not only teach judges and prosecutors in Turkey, but now serves judges and prosecutors abroad." If it was such a good place, why change the law of this Academy of Justice? Dear friends, if the state acts righteously among its citizens, justice will be revealed. So the government must treat all citizens and all people equally. [[Showing the photo of Esma al Biltaci and Ali İsmail Korkmaz by Hatip]] August 14, 2013. In Egypt, Rabiathül Adeviye Square was a 17-year-old plant, Esma al Biltaci. The snipers are wounded by the security forces in anti-plot demonstrations. At the hospital, he told his mother that I was fine. He went into surgery, didn't make it out alive. Is there anyone in this House who doesn't have a heart for Esma al Biltaci? Is there anyone in this House who doesn't have a heart that doesn't burn to Esma el Biltaci? June 2, 2013. A 19-year-old plant in Turkey, in Eskişehir, in Salvation District, in Industrial Street, in front of Harman Bakery, Ali İsmail Korkmaz, in the Gezi Park protests. (CHP cheers) Civilian cops beat him to death, and then 38 days later, he's dead. Is there anyone in this land who does not have the heart of Ali Ismail Korkmez? If so, you will give his statement as you pass through my desk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, for us, Alevi-Sunni is no different.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0022par0236	What are you laughing about?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0012par0237	There is no difference between us and Alevi-Sunni, and there is no difference between Muslim and non-Muslim. We love man because of the Creator, and we sincerely believe in God. Dear MPs, on 5 August 2014, the Prime Minister of the period, NTV-Star, in his joint broadcast, said to me, "Excuse me, I've been called by some very ugly things." He's used humiliating expression with the Greeks before.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0023par0239	Say the whole sentence.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0012par0240	That's the whole sentence; that's the whole sentence, and it's a shame. I wonder how the Secretary of State told the world at that time. He must have been very embarrassed. Sadly, a prime minister in this country has said that 53 Sunni citizens have been martyred in Reyhanlı. For such discrimination, I felt great shame and sadness. Dear lawmakers, there is talk of a Roman opening in this government programme. Which novel stands for what? It says that the Roma institute will be established, their standard of living will be improved. You just woke up, 12 years later. Dear friends, these things don't happen with the institute.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0024par0244	With what?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0012par0245	In our country, Roma are unemployed, uneducated, unable to find work in the state, poor. How many Roma have found jobs in Turkey, how many Roma have risen, how many Roma have had higher education? Yes, novels are very friendly people, but they are the most outcasts in this country. Yeah, listening to a bell, but you don't listen to it either -- you don't open up a novel by throwing a belly, building an institute. Dear lawmakers, the state's fair is to have a conscience against its citizens. It also concerns their standard of living. In 2007, when our workers died in Tuzla shipyards, we understood business accidents. What's done? Nothing. Nothing has been done, soma has left. In fact, the most business accidents in Turkey are not in mines or shipyards, but in Turkey, the most business accidents are in construction. On average, we have one citizen, one worker, dying in construction every day, not even to be reported.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0025par0248	Four workers die a day, four workers.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0012par0249	I'll tell you what's even sadder is that last year in our country 1,235 people died in business accidents. 59 children under the age of 14 lost their lives in business accidents, 59 children! In your power, business accidents have increased, statistically speaking, especially in mining. Soma, beyond being a human disaster, is a very clear document that shows how power can be cruel to workers. You have brought to parliament an apology law concerning Soma. What happened to the apology law? You tore it apart on the commissions. Anyway, the head of the government at the time said that this was the outside of the government. You know what he said? The bones of our martyrs who died in Soma have broken in the graves. Dear MPs, President Erdogan, in his speech, we respected your lifestyle, you didn't show it to us. I don't know about you or us, but I'm going to give you a few figures on the public lifestyle: 400,000 people are hungry in Turkey, and nearly 14 million people live below the poverty line. I'll tell the President another number: nearly 2.5 million people work as subcontractors. Another number: 15 per cent of the population in Turkey does not have health insurance, and 1/3 of the elderly do not have pension insurance. Look, I'll give you another sad number: 6 to 14 in Turkey -- look, I didn't say 18 -- 6 percent of the children between the ages are being employed. Children's workers are very common in Turkey. Of every three women in Turkey, two percent of our disabled women do not work, and 93 percent of our disabled women are unemployed. Dear lawmakers, 85 per cent of women in this country have no pension guarantees, 90 per cent of workers in this country have no right to contract, almost one-third of the disabled in this country cannot read, half the girls between 15 and 19 do not go to school in this country! What lifestyle, Mr. President, what lifestyle? Freedoms are cut off in this country, people's ideas are enslaved, there's no social justice left! What lifestyle, Mr. President? Mr. President, while this country is like this, you have moved to a palace that has been built for over 90 years and 700 trillions, and you have 160 guards. What glory, what despair? Yes, we don't respect such a lifestyle, Mr. President. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, the new Turkey shows a great injustice; the new Turkey shows that freedoms are being restricted. The new Turkey shows negotiation, not democratic peace. New Turkey, one man points to the state. New Turkey means a booming economy. Dear friends, there is justice in the name of the new Turkey, but justice has been erased from your conscience, from your heart. For these reasons, we, the People's Party of the Republic, have never trusted, and we are never hopeful of the 62nd government.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0026par0261	People didn't trust you, either, people.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0012par0262	In Turkey, the 62nd government will not be better than 61st. Now, let me tell you about this 62nd government: they put three wines in front of the dervishe, they drank it, and it was the worst. You haven't tasted the others. The other one said. He said, "There's nothing worse than this. There's nothing worse than this. The 62nd government is the same as the 61st government. Only power of attorney, power of attorney. The head is given power of attorney, not head of Parliament.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0027par0264	It's 52 percent, 52 percent.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0028par0265	That's why we've been in power for 12 years.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0012par0266	Yeah, yeah... However, we are confident that Turkey will surely have freedom and justice someday, but that freedom and justice will never be with this government. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0029par0270	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0030par0271	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0029par0272	Mr. President, the 62nd Government's Programme, established as Prime Minister of Mr. Davutoglu, was read on Monday (September 1st) in the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Today we're conducting talks on the program. So far, three political parties have expressed their views on the programme. But we haven't yet seen Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Davutoglu in the General Assembly. [[The AK PARTY is coming, coming, coming, coming.]] Does that mean... So these talks, the talks on the Government Programme of Turkey, the views of opposition parties, or Mr. Davutoglu, I read this program on Monday, but they didn't write it, they gave it, and I also read it? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0031par0277	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the first speaker is Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Amasya MP. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0281	Dear friends, Mr. President, I salute you all. Everyone heard the Prime Minister's arrival, I believe, and so did Mr Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0033par0283	We don't want any, we don't want any, we don't want any.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0284	In a way, he's preempted, and I congratulate him on his brilliant attitude.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0034par0285	Mr. President, I've never heard of such a thing. If it comes after the opposition party's speech, it means the Prime Minister has disrespected the opposition. It's a shame, it didn't happen.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0035par0286	Let Kılıçdaroğlu come too, Kılıçdaroğlu.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0287	Dear friends, may the government be blessed. We all have one country, we all have one government, no other government. The success of this government will not only be the success of the AK PARTY Group, but the success of this country, the success of the people in this country, will be your success with this group. People aren't just in this life with political positions, you're also in your home, you're a father, you're a customer outside, you're a shopper, you're a daily shopper. The government's success in every field, of course, will affect the lives of all these people -- decent, decent. A successful government, a successful performance, will bring blessings on everyone's lives in this country, bring wealth. I think it would be useful, of course, to not only leave political criticism, but also to place the country's common interests, its common future, its destiny, its unity, in the rhetoric. It would be a bit of a miserable comfort to tell the government how failed it was to write a success story on it. In fact, can you write more success stories on a successful government that will be a contrast; what is your claim when you see this success, in the name of success, and when the public looks at it, yes, the government is successful, but we are more assertive. Can it see a degree of difference, not a degree of difference in nature; that's what's important. Otherwise, the government is bad, and I'm going to do a little better. The EC PARTY government is not a peaceful government, but what the opposition says is true, one of the rings of the chain since 2002. At the same time, a government that corresponds to the success story since 2002, the success of the people, the success of the people behind it, the victory of the elections, and the prospects of this people for the future. Mr. Hursit said the Sun couldn't be worse. I immediately thought of Mazhar Osman, famous, who came to me. One of his patients, Mazhar Osmana, said, "You're crazy. You're mad." Mazhar Osman, laughed, said, "It doesn't matter if you call me crazy, it's bad if I call you crazy." Now, there's no point in Mr. Hursit Bey calling us evil, of course he'll say, it's what the people say, it's what the people say. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, there is an English historian, Arnold Toynbee -- those interested in history, others know -- when describing civilization, civilization is made up of answers to questions nature asks, because life asks questions. Successful politics is also made up of answers to questions asked by you, not just by rhetoric, but by rhetoric. Otherwise, you'll be able to have a very nice conversation, and the politicians who use phrases have come and gone. You remember Osman Division head, he used to gather crowds, but you're like a field of corn, giving 2 to 1, you listen to me, you don't vote. There's not enough to go around. Can you respond to the people's real agenda, their real life? Can your words find a response in their world? If he does, you'll succeed. Here's what Toynbee said about civilization, it's the same for politics. If you can give meaningful answers to the real life of the people, then you will succeed. This is behind the success of the AK PARTY. It's a success because the public responds to people's troubles, their longings, their expectations, their real, heart-burning problems, and today's government is the expression of such success. Remember the elections, we can all say anything here, but what do the people say, people? We need to see what the public has to say. Turkey, yes, is becoming a new Turkey. This new term is often used, you know. There was also a new party, which got old very quickly. I mean, the new word, if you can't fill it with meaning, turns into a miserable word, but inside today's new Turkey, it's not just a political party that goes around with the rhetoric of the AK PARTI. Until yesterday, people in Turkey lived a life of traditional relationships. We need to see how much Turkey's conditions have changed. I read this morning: Kenan Sofuoğlu, married, motorcycle racer, married a Dutch lady, married in Sakarya, went to Spain. Look how different they are. I wondered what language they were speaking at home. The scales are changing, my friends, the scales are changing, the scale of the world is changing. Please do not view this example as a naive example. People used to marry from the same village, and now they're bonding with people from far away lands. Production tools change, property relations change, life scale changes, understanding changes. Until yesterday, the people of Turkey could not cross the mountains that surrounded towns without horizons, roads, and tracks. The AK PARTY caused the whole world, and you're going through it. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) The entire global horizon has gained an uplifting perspective. Since the 1980s, since the 1990s, the poor merchants and merchants of Anatolia began to win from the world markets. The new Turkey was founded by those social groups, he founded the people, and the AK PARTY came out as the will of Turkey, which re-established it in the changing world of this rising wave. Please see what the social and economic story behind while criticizing the AK PARTY is, or else the eloquence will not be enough. Belagat... poets do it. You know the poem "The Lake Hours" by Ahmet Hashim. It's a wonderful view of the lake, but we have friends who know you wrote that poem in front of a tiny swamp. Belagat is sometimes able to make a poet like Ahmet Hashim look at a tiny swamp and show a magnificent view of the lake, sometimes a wonderful view of the lake, and tell a swamp story just like before. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, the fate of the people in Turkey today is shared with the Balkans, the Caucasus, and the Middle East. Whether you close your eyes or open them wide, you can't change these objective conditions. You will sing new songs about the conditions of the new Turkey. Yeah, you'll stick to tradition from one side, you'll stick to the past, but you'll also have a horizon where you embrace the future with full strides, you'll have a vision. However, if you can do so, you can turn a country into a mighty, great country, a future that will honor its people. Here's the success story of the AK PARTY. I wish the opposition would say better than us, catch this people by the heart. Catch and be strong, and I'll kiss your hand. Yeah.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0036par0300	Those days will come, don't worry, Hajji.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0301	But your friends who only came here with the eloquence to do politics, with enthusiasm for other professions, like prosecution, as a judge, but in a very hot way...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0037par0302	So the Prime Minister took over first, said he was a prosecutor first. Tell that to the Prime Minister first.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0303	I mean, it's not politics with this kind of evaluation, this kind of nonresponsive, non-realistic stuff. The opposition, in particular, has a wide range of experiences, and I find it hard to understand that even though he has seen it over and over again, he is going the same way again. For example, there's something about the CHP that they're very uncomfortable with. I see that everyone is giving us advice. Everyone's talking through CHP, everyone's giving us advice.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0038par0304	Because we have democracy, do you have one, Hajji? Do you have one?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0305	Actually, I was wondering if...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0038par0306	The Prime Minister has arrived with the appointment.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0307	Of course, I'd definitely like to get some advice from the CHP people, this is Parliament, we're going to use each other's minds, but what is it that everyone can't see when they're giving advice to CHP? (AC PARTY Applause) Instead of complaining, what's the shortage there? It's really important. I mean, there's no need to make this a matter of honor or anything. So there's a problem. Dear friends, one of the most important topics in this government program is the process of resolution. This solution process is one of the republic's most fundamental projects, and it is a job that should not be discussed around the cheap language and rhetoric of politics. It's very important to pay attention and care. Mr. Hursit Sun said, "Meclis is not involved." I was the President of the Solution Commission, we've established the Commission of Solutions, in this Parliament, we've asked everyone to come. You didn't come. You didn't come, Mr. Hursit! (AK PARTY APPLAUSE)
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0039par0310	He doesn't know!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0311	You didn't come, we said. Your most brilliant proposal for a solution was to make Diyarbakır Prison a museum. If only we could solve this by building a museum, if only we could solve it, we could open a museum everywhere. Do you have a major script?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0040par0312	It's better than building a prison in Diyarbakira, Mr. Bostancı.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0313	You know why it doesn't work? Because, in your own mind, the democratic wealth, we think, is incompatible orchestral order -- I'm speaking about ideas -- doesn't allow it. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Whatever you say, it's best not to say anything; if possible, save the situation with a low-level museum. How many times has Mr. Atalay spoken, and how many times have there been talks about the solution process. What do you mean, information?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0041par0315	Do you?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0042par0316	Come tell me what's going to happen.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0317	I mean, is it meant to be the core of such information that corresponds to the solution process? Look, there's all kinds of talk everywhere, and there's no unspoken words, there's no word without the light of day, there's everything being said. It's not about talking, it's about doing, it's about doing. Here's the will that can do it. Hopefully, we will provide the community and brotherhood of this country. On September 5th and 6th, we follow closely, of course, the CHP Congress, which will provide unity and brotherhood for itself. Well, I hope there's unity in there first, and then there's a chance for the union in Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, the parallel matter here is very speculative. ▪ The parallel... (PHP 4 =
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0042par0320	So it's not really there?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0321	You're telling us that you were with those people yesterday. Isn't that right?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0043par0322	You were together, together!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0323	Yes, yes, we were.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0043par0324	You were together!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0325	You're with him today, aren't you?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0043par0326	No way!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0044par0327	Not at all!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0328	You're with him.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0044par0330	Bulent Arinc, Mr. Arinc's gone, kissed his hand!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0331	Look, I'll tell you the difference between the two, the difference is...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0044par0332	Mr. Arinc's gone, he's kissed your hand!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0333	You know what the difference is between the two? I'm telling you the difference between us being with them and you being with them...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0044par0334	Not at all!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0335	Your friends know about civil society, political society debates. You're not telling the truth; it doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit you! I believe there are some very valuable lawmakers who have read about Marxism, about Marks, about Gramsci, about Hegel. Dear friends, civil society is an organised society outside the political zone, especially an economic-based organised society. We don't look at where civil society is positioned politically, we support who is organized in the field of civil society. Those people, those people you were talking about yesterday, they were part of the civil society, they were organized there, let's be partners in politics, let's take care of politics. They didn't make a claim like that. We were with those people, there's nothing wrong with that. We were with other NGOs, not just theirs, but these people...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0045par0339	So, what did they want and you gave it to them? We gave him everything he asked for. You said.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0340	Marks, who I assume you have read, draws attention to this danger, says that the civil society is dangerous. He wants to share in politics, he wants to shape politics. Assuming you've read it, the structure that was in civil society yesterday assumed that it had reached a certain power and claimed that it had a political claim.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0046par0341	Not at all, Hajji, he stepped on your feet! He stepped on your foot!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0342	So, we object at that point, and at that point, when we were in civil society, we stood in the face of those who tried to do this in an intrinsic way of politics. Why?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0047par0343	For exposing corruption!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0344	Why? They've given you the will of the people through open, public processes, so you can't take them away and submit to the blackmail of a closed, enticing structure.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0048par0346	Teacher, what are the counting machines doing in the bedroom? What's he doing here?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0347	My dear brothers, where do you come from?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0048par0348	What's with the million dollars in shoe boxes, Hajji? What are the cash registers doing in the bedrooms, Hajji? Say it, Hajji.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0049par0349	Mr. Pine, please.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0350	Aren't you sitting here taking public authority through open, public processes? Isn't that what you came for? Aren't you a part of the nation's will?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0048par0351	No one's telling him anything, Hajji. With corruption...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0352	So how do you keep yourself pure by denying yourself behind those who seek power with these intrinsic relationships? How?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0050par0354	You think you're delusional!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0355	My dear brothers...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0051par0356	You make it sound like something doesn't exist. You make it sound like something doesn't exist!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0357	My dear brothers, the Government Program has many titles. One of the most important topics is the claim of culture and civilization, very important; education is very important. I'm not referring to that cliché.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0052par0358	You're destroying civilization!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0359	You know what the greatest danger in the modern world is? In fact, they point out that relations with these classes are being discussed: the proletariat, the bourgeois, they don't mean anything because class relations, everything just turns into things. This must be a place for people to stand against this stuffing, a place for cultures to stop, a place for communities to stop. That must be your problem. Yes, it will be a place where the tip of the compass will be printed, as he said. When we think of education, we want a youth built on the values of this land, these fertile and holy lands, and we want our generations to grow up that way. One foot here, the other foot embraces the whole universe. Let him know about Cortazar, let him know about Borges, let him know about Marx, let him know about Freud, let him know where he's standing, let him know where he's looking at the world; or let him be there one day, one day, and not in another traveler every day. So this issue of education is really important, where we stand, especially against the stuffing. There is a story in Cortazar. Cortazar's...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0052par0361	Are you talking about...? Are you talking about what I did with your thing?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0362	Mr. Kamer, please, if you listen, you'll understand, you'll understand. He says they gave you an hour on your birthday. In fact, my watch, which was given to you on your birthday, is more valuable than any other watch, my watch is a concern of whether it will take water.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0053par0365	Teacher, are you talking about 700 billion hours?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0054par0366	What watch?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0032par0367	In the Cortazar story, it says, "You're the one who was given the watch on your birthday." ▪ This is what it's like to get laid. I hope it'll be the shape of this ancient land as a focus we're printing under a claim of culture and education against it. My respects.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0055par0370	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0056par0371	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0057par0372	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0055par0373	Mr. President, the speaker has taunted our group with an unrealistic claim that the Republican People's Party is with the parallel structure. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0057par0374	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0055par0378	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the AKP's new Deputy Director of the Group, are in session today. Of course he wants to make a good speech. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE] I wish him success in his mission, but I'd like to remind him of something first. Mr. Bostanci, I understand you're talking about Marx, Hegel, Gramsci, Arnold Toynbee, Habermas, etc. So once in a while I'd like to know if you'd mention Ibn Sina, Farabi, Nizamülmulk, Islamic political philosophy, as well. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE] Yes, when a person is so alien to society, unfortunately, Turkey has a hard time dealing with the facts of our culture.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0058par0380	The teacher has been rejected, the teacher has been rejected!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0055par0381	I suggest you read Mr. Davutoglu's convention speech. Maybe you'll get some fez from there. I'm also going to criticize that speech in a separate title, not today. Don't think I said yes to that speech, but Mr. Davutoglu at least tried to show his cultural savings there. Now, I thank Mr. Bostanci for one sentence, and yesterday we were with the parallel structure. He says, he confesses.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0059par0383	It's not a parallel structure.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0055par0384	His motive was an element of civil society. Civil society is an organized society outside the state, it says. Let's get this recipe straight. Your civil society is a non-governmental society, with a Marxian reading, with a Gramsciian reading. I mean, the family goes into it, Mr. Bostanci. It's not organized society. The organized society is a society of NGOs; that's different. Civil society is a civilian area outside the state, it's everyone.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0060par0386	You put it inside the government.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0055par0387	The governors, the police chiefs, the judges, the prosecutors, didn't you appoint all of this at the request of the parallel structure? Did you do this because the civil society asked you to? [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Didn't you condemn them illegally in Ergenekon and Sledgehammer, when you claimed to face the intellectuals, scientists, journalists, politicians? Didn't Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan say after the 17th of December that there were many innocent men inside?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0061par0392	You're flexing! You're flexing!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0062par0393	Who brought Mansur Slowly?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0055par0394	Now, you're saying that we were good children, the congregation was bad children. He led us astray. No one will believe that. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0063par0397	Yes, thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0064par0398	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0063par0399	Mr. Bostanci, wait a second, Mr. Halaçoglu asked for it.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0064par0400	Mr. President claimed yesterday that we were with the parallel structure, Mr. Hamzacebi, referring to something I didn't say.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0063par0401	I'll make a promise to Mr. Halaçoglu that after that...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0065par0402	No, that's exactly what he said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0066par0403	Ask for the transcripts. Let the transcripts come, sir.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0063par0404	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0067par0405	Mr. President, Mr. Bostanci has just expressed the criticism of the opposition as a result of a miserable understanding. Now, that's what the opposition calls their criticism of this issue. I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0063par0407	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0067par0411	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the opposition's duty is to give positive approval, but most of all, its guidance by exposing the wrongs of power. That's mission number one. So to call our criticisms here a miserable understanding is a really dirty term, a very dirty use, not appropriate. Now, on the other hand, in general, strategies are not created on positive issues, they are detected on negatives. Now, here, when we criticize you for negative actions, it actually makes you do better by putting them in front of you. Thus, it seems extremely ugly to describe it as a poor understanding. On the other hand, Arnold told me about Toynbee, Mr. Bostanci. Toynbee is not only that, but there is another side to Toynbee, Mr. Bostan. During World War I, Toynbee was a member of the branch and worked for 300 pounds, responsible for Mesopotamia and Anatolia. Accusing the Turks of genocide is Arnold Toynbee. Even though he never came here, he did it for 300 pounds, I'd like to remind you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0068par0415	Bostancı is the teacher!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0067par0416	On the other hand, the New Mosque... doesn't mention anything new. Do you know when the New Mosque was built in Vinegar? It began in 1597, finished in 1665, but is still the New Mosque. Why is it new? What will you judge innovation for? On the other hand, how are we supposed to believe that people who want to give advice have a mind? I mean, how smart do you think people who want to give advice... how do you know it's true? I mean, whoever's giving advice to who's giving advice, I think it's time for them to think for themselves.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0069par0419	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0070par0420	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0071par0421	Mr. President, I'm just going to speak from my position.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0069par0422	Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0071par0425	I also condemn the sentence of Mr. Bostanci, who has taken the criticism of the opposition as a poor understanding, as a HDP. I'd like to ask Mr. Bostanci to make a correction on this matter.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0069par0426	Thank you. Mr. Bostanci, what did you want to say? First, one second...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0072par0429	Sir, Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0069par0430	You've just started, you'll learn, you'll say things first.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0072par0431	I've been in the audience, haven't I, sir? Mr. Hamzacebi was with the parallel structure yesterday. He expressed what I said, regarding this matter.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0073par0432	That's what you said.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0074par0433	Let's get a report.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0075par0434	Here you are, Mr. Bostanci, for two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0076par0438	Mr. Hamzacebi, the word "pareleal structure" was used after the political allegations were revealed. If you've been following my speech, I've been referring to the civilian structure in the past. You'll understand what I'm saying in this frame, you certainly do. I don't know what it says in the report, but what I mean is that it's obvious, and I don't think it's right to insist on not understanding it. Second of all, that's how I said it. Besides, the word "sephile" is not such a bad concept. Marx has a book called The Misfortune of Philosophy, is that a philosophy? Besides, I didn't say that, that's how it's understood. I mean, I referred to the third party.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0077par0440	No, no, it's in the report.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0076par0441	I mean, that's what I said.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0077par0442	Mr. Bostanci, there are always reports, you'll find out.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0078par0443	You'll find out, this isn't madrasa!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0076par0444	Third, Mr. Halaçoglu, I'm sure you've read from Dostoyevsky as an intellectual. Have you read Crime and Punishment?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0077par0445	Anyway, Dostoyevsky, Balzac, Toynbee...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0076par0446	Have you read it? Have you read the Brothers of Karamazov? Dostoyevski says that sooner or later we will take Istanbul from the Turks, put our men on his door, let some of them in, and not let others in. What shall we do, Dostoyevsky?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0077par0447	Never mind Balzac, Kafka, tell me your own opinion, and tell me your own.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0076par0448	So we shouldn't take advantage? Everybody's saying something. Toynbee is an important historian.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0077par0450	Toynbee, yes...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0076par0451	It's true what my teacher says, yes, he's involved in this kind of thing, there's talk in the white book that he's a genius, there's evaluations, but as a result, we don't look where people stand.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0079par0452	The Blue Book, the Blue Book!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0080par0453	Blue Book, Blue! It's not white, it's not white, it's the Blue Book!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0076par0454	Marx's assessment of the Ottomans is pointless, but that does not mean that we will not see Marx. As for the matter of Ibn Sina, Farabi, Mr. Hamzacebi, we already have an acquish for them, thank God. We've left this area to the opposition, and I see the opposition to be very zealous. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In fact, if they make a little more effort, I would say that some friends from the opposition can wear robes on Fridays and pray behind them.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0081par0460	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0082par0461	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0081par0462	Mr. President, there's been some bullying, sir, and I want your word.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0083par0463	He's kidding!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0081par0464	Sir, you promised Mr. Bostanci to make a statement, even though there was no bullying in my words.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0084par0465	Yeah, he made a statement, that's right.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0081par0466	But there's no such thing in the Civil Code to explain it, sir.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0085par0467	No, sir, he said something other than the idea he said.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0081par0468	I'm not against you promising him to explain now, I'm for freedom, let our friend speak. I want a word, too, sir.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0086par0470	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0081par0472	Now, I told you, he's on the market, he's trying to show all his savings here. To carry water without knowledge; to go to Mecca, a man cannot be a man. [[Applause from CHP rows]] It's in your...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0087par0475	But, Mr. Hamzacebi, you're a group of vice presidents, and using these statements for the new group's vice president doesn't agree with the grace of the House.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0081par0476	Look, he's making very disrespectful statements.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0088par0477	It doesn't look good!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0081par0478	In his previous speech, he makes a statement to the Republican People's Party. Mr. Bostanci, you've used this before, you've had an argument about Immanuel Kant, and I've given you an answer from there by telling you about the Immanuel Kant Revolution of Enlightenment. Then you came to me, and I didn't mean to offend you. You kind of apologized to me.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0088par0479	It doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit you, even if he said it doesn't.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0089par0480	So wrong, so wrong.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0081par0481	Now I understand, Mr. Prime Minister, that when you attempted to prove yourself in front of the government, you took the same tone. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I'm returning this demeanor to you, and I don't think it's worth answering. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit01spe0090par0486	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0090par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 135th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, Mustafa Elitaş is the second speaker to speak for the Justice and Development Party Group on the Council of Ministers' Programme, Kayseri MP. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0091par0007	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. We're meeting with the Government Programme we're meeting with here in the 12 years of AK PARTI rule, the 5th AK PARTY government, and the 62nd Government's Programme in the history of the republic during the 90-year period. The Justice and Development Party has been in power for nearly 12 years, according to the grace and authority of our dear nation in the 2011 elections. The Justice and Development Party, established on 14 August 2001, was appointed by our nation to govern the state of the Republic of Turkey on 3 November 2002, 13 and a half months after the establishment of the Justice and Development Party, established by our nation's people in a time when politics sank. There were important matters that day. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has done a really good job. In previous processes, it was difficult to access the minutes of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to find their data, but at the end of the process, it is available in both the website and the library, with a delegation of all governments -- starting from 1920 to 1999 -- to the end of the last year -- to talk, to meet, to report, to Mr. Secretary General of Parliament. As you read those government programs, as you look at them, you will see huge differences in the talks that began from 2002 to 2014, especially in 2014 that we are meeting today about the 62th Government's Programme. Because the issues discussed in the process, including the 57th government -- including the 58th government -- are stable; inflation issues, unemployment issues, the IMF issue, the hospital issue, the health issue, the issue of justice. Look, in the time we arrived in 2002, we saw people who were waiting in line for the pension line have lost their lives. During the period leading up to 2002, we saw people die while waiting for a doctor at the hospital. In fact, tragic films about these issues were made, and they became the subject of films. If you look at the 2002 talks -- from the transcripts -- I suggest you carefully observe the issues that were said by the president of the Republican People's Party of the period. During that time, the EC PARTY came to power, and the Emergency Action Plan was listed by Mr. President; for the first time, the Emergency Action Plan was determined and established in what order during a republical government. But there's been a bit of a problem with the public perception, putting the perception in place. Why? Since they know that the commitments made by governments in past habits have not been fulfilled, it is normal for the EC PARTI power not to differ in perception of the Emergency Action Plan. But on the 100th day of our power of the EC PARTI, we will perform this on the 200th day of our power, and once the issues that he had promised were revealed, the power of the EC PARTY was trusted. As a matter of fact, during the 2004 local elections, the EC PARTI ruling increased to 42 per cent, folding 35 per cent in the 2001 general election. After that, the 2007 elections... You know, before entering the 2007 elections, there was a presidential crisis in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. We had no idea that in December 2006, the president of the Republican People's Party at the time was a lunatic. We were confronted with the 367 freaks in the newspapers. At that time, on May 2007, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey made a historic decision. In that historic decision, the Turkish National Assembly elected President, the people's will is being pressured from other places, from other altars, and from now on, we've made a constitutional amendment called the President's choice. On 21 October 2007, this nation said a large part of that constitutional amendment, yes. Then, in the 2007 elections... and in the 2007 elections, the EC PARTY won close to 47 per cent of the vote, strengthening its power again. First, when we left in 2001, we left with the slogan for Turkey, where we were continuing in 2007, no stopping, keep going. We acted with the slogan and our nation appreciated it. I'd like to express to you two important issues between the president of the Republic People's Party of the period's talks on the government's programme. It says Mr. Baykal at the time: "Look, there is a major unemployment problem in Turkey, and there is a major inflation problem in Turkey. In this government program that you brought in, we will strengthen the economy, we will stop unemployment and we will make growth. When you say that, it will bring a contradiction, according to the economics theory. In Turkey, 500,000 people are obliged to join the labour force every year. If you can't get 500,000 people to join the labor force, this complexity will continue. The employment in Turkey was 19 million when the AK PARTI came to power. According to the latest data, the employment in Turkey has reached 26 million. So, in the period of AK PARTY power, during our 11 years of power, 6.5 million people re-employed. In that sense, we've made a significant contribution in employment. Hopefully, in the next process, we'll be able to create an innovation technique that we've been able to create a Silicon Valley, in order to bring structural transformations and transformations into a position that we've given to the AR-GE, which we've already established laws about this. Where do we see it? By building a techno park at our university, which is close to 20. We're going to be taking advantage of the knowledge of our growing students, the knowledge of our people in this direction, and we're going to take advantage of it, to innovation, to development, and to make heavy goods at cost. Precious lawmakers, looking back in 12 years, when we look back at the history of the Republic of Turkey's 12 years, you see that the most difficult times, the most difficult times, have passed through the AK PARTI administrations: an AK PARTI that faced the closure case, a Turkish Republic presidency, followed by different results, coup attempts. Unfortunately, those who endeavored to insulate this process with different points have been in this country. Despite all the obstacles, the Justice and Development Party, despite all the opposition, has performed its duty to the nation and, for the first time in the history of the Republic -- perhaps for the first time in the history of democracy -- has successfully come out of its six elections, has changed its two referendums in the same way, and has crowned its achievements by electing President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the natural leader of the Justice and Development Party in the presidential election.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0092par0017	Tell me about the government programme, Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0091par0018	Dear MPs, look, the Government Program has been described as 187 pages.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0092par0019	Wow, so you're saying we should read it.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0091par0020	Our dear friends must have read it, too. Mr. President, on September 1st, our Prime Minister tried to summarize the Government Programme. I'd like to draw your attention to something here. Speaking on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Hursit Sun has expressed an issue regarding the injustice of the income distribution, saying: "They have brought a statement to the Prime Minister, which he has spoken, and they have written it, and Mr. Prime Minister has said it from here. I don't want to discuss Mr. Sun's economic knowledge, but if Mr. Sun had read it carefully, I think he would have understood clearly that it did not appear as a number or a number. In the final paragraph of the government programme's 105/th page, it says -- I read it exactly the same -- that the average income of the 10 percent richest in 2002 is 18.3 times the income of the poorest 10 percent, so the difference between 10 percent and the poorest 10 percent is 18.3 percent. The revenues of the poorer population increased to 11.8 times in 2012, so the difference between the richest 10 percent in Turkey and the poorest 10 per cent in Turkey has increased by 18.3.8 per cent, along with the number of 2012. Ten percent of them have received their share of the remaining slices, and their income situation has improved further within the scope of their share. Precious lawmakers were one of the most important indicators for measurements in Turkey's previous period of 2002, with a monthly income under $30 per person. In 2002, the person with less than 30 dollars per person's income was 136 thousand per month, while in 2012, there was no less than 30 dollars in income. The number of people in poverty was 136 thousand in 2002, while the number was zeroed in 2012. Again, the population, which has a monthly income of less than $65 per person, was reduced to 2.1 million in Turkey in 2002 and 46000 in 2012. Again, the number of people who have to live at an absolute poverty level of less than $129 per person's monthly income dropped to 1.7 million in 2012, when they were nearly 20.7 million in 2002. The recovery of our people in hunger and misery continues quickly in the social responsibility project of the AK PARTY government. One of the most important indicators of government programs so far is that we've done these, we've done these, we've done these, we've done these; we've also planned to do these. But for the first time in 2011, Turkey has introduced a vision policy, a vision program, which reveals its 50-year perspective in the framework of the Government Program and the 62-century government. His vision of 2023 will be as follows: $500 billion in exports, $1 trillion in non-billion in non-profits and $25,000 in income per person. This is what will be done in a hundred days, in five hundred days, when they are told. Is it possible that today, while the concerns were being raised in 2011, when the public presented its vision of 2023, the public put aside the debate and put a new vision of Turkey during the period of the conquest of Istanbul, which coincided with 2053. The thousandth anniversary of the year 107, when Turks set foot in Anatolia, in 2071, this will be the future of Turkey in a 50-year vision. Dear lawmakers, see, different points of injustice in the income distribution have been made, different points of foreign debt have been given. It's true, the amount of debt has increased. So if there's a income in the family, if there's an increase in income, there's going to be a rise in debt, and there's certainly going to be an increase in expenses, but the main thing is to look at the increase in income. In 2002, the total public net debt supply was 61.5 per cent of the illegal national client, while according to the 2013 figures, it dropped to 12.7 per cent. Again, in 2002, the public's total gross debt was 74 per cent of the illegitimate nation, while in 2013 it dropped to 36.3 per cent. In 2002, $86.5 billion is public debt, and $43 billion is the private sector's debt, the total supply of foreign debt is $129.6 billion, and the proportion of non-majority is 56.2%. So as 56.2 per cent of the country's revenues go into total debt, I want to give you the 2013 figures: the public's total stockpile of foreign debt is down to $120 billion, the private sector foreign debt stock is $267 billion, $388 billion total; the GDP is down 47.3 per cent. So when we used to owe a lot of debt, when there was a chance of getting it in a slightly more lame way in return for our debt, or in terms of a slightly different interest, or a little bit more than in 2013, the need to borrow less than half of the non-national demand. Dear MPs, look, I'd like to share with you the revenues taken by the people living in Turkey. As of 2002, I present the amount of products that can be bought at net minimum wage: in 2002, a worker could receive 181 kilograms of bread with a net minimum wage, while in November 2013, he received 277 kilograms of bread. He could gain 85 kilos of rice in 2002, while in 2013 he could gain 168 kilograms; in 2002 he could gain 180 kilos of pasta; in 2013 he could receive 1,370 eggs; in 2002 he could receive 2,260 eggs. When the sunflower oil gained 64 kilograms, it gained 300 pounds; when the dry beans gained 180 pounds; when the lentils gained 120 kilograms; when the lentils gained 143 kilograms, they gained 223 kilograms. I mean, there's now a significant change in life standards in the real living of people who work for minimum wage. If we look at the officer's situation: Look, in 2002, 386 kilograms of bread can be bought with the lowest officer's salary, while 180 kilos of bread are bought by November 2013; 180 kilos of rice are bought in 2002, 394 kilograms of rice is bought in 2013. 2.914 eggs can be bought in 2002 with the lowest officer's salary, while 5,306 eggs can be bought in 2013. In 2002, 507 kilograms of tomatoes were available, while in 2013, 921 kilograms of tomatoes were available. In 2002, the lowest officer's salary could receive 2.01 suits, while in 2013, he could buy 6,18 men's suits. In 2002, the officer could buy 2,438 kilowatts of energy, while the lowest officer could buy 5.263 kilowatts of electricity in 2013 on a minimum officer's salary. In 2002, the lowest officer who could buy 1,047 cubic metres of natural gas was able to buy 1,765 kilograms of natural gas in 2013.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0093par0032	Kilogram!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0091par0033	Metric cube, cubic meter. Thank you, Hajji. He's been able to buy a metreb of natural gas. In 2002, he was able to get 19 in a 12-pound tube, while in 2013 he was able to get 28 tubes. Dear lawmakers, this program will surely be criticised. In this programme, the opposition parties will note that we also want to consider the constructive criticism of opposition parties. And I want to make it clear, Mr. Hursit, in his solar speech, that there is a new constitution within this government programme. He said, "How can you make a new constitution?" Mr. Sun, look, four political parties, including your political party, have met, and four political parties have represented the Constitutional Compromise Commission equally. We thought we'd get 48 first, so you gave up. A group of vice presidents said, "Come on, Hodri Square, let's bring 48 things to life." He said, "Come on, we said, you've given up." After that, Mr. President called about the 61 clause, and you gave up on him. I hope that this program will bring blessings to our country, to our nation, and to all of you, with respect, with respect, with respect, with respect, with respect.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0094par0039	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0095par0040	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0094par0041	Sir, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group has expressed our party's position contrary to reality regarding the constitutional settlement process. I want word on Article 69, sir.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0095par0042	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0094par0045	Mr. President, after the 2011 elections were held, Mr. Cemil Cicek, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, acted on a new constitution, announcing such a call to the public through the press. At the time, the Justice and Development Party quickly formed a delegation to the Republican People's Party to avoid leaving such a fine job to Cemil Cicek. So we said we'd be on this committee, and the Constitutional Compromise Commission was established, and it did a great job. The establishment of such a commission is a gain for our democracy, and first of all, it's very important, I'd like to express it. However, since representatives of the Justice and Development Party insisted from the beginning on the presidential system, unfortunately, this commission was unable to move forward after a certain phase. In essence, the Justice and Development Party calculated that when this commission was established, four political parties couldn't agree with each other anyway. BDP -- now HDP-MHP, CHP, impossible, they can't even sit at a table. One of them will leave the table anyway. This was the account, but it didn't hold up. Very democratically, three opposition parties sat there, expressing their views. And you locked this by not withdrawing the presidential proposal. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan said to the People's Party: "Come, destroy this compromise, let's continue together. Are you giving up the presidential system?" No, we'll think about it later. We are a party that stands by our promise. Whatever promise we made to any political party, we keep it. Like you, let's put the Torba law on the table. We don't say, "Let's shut down the House and do things, and do not make such a hypocritical thing as calling for an extraordinary meeting of Parliament for the bag of law next week." My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0096par0051	Mr. President, I'd like to make a correction. Look, Mr. President called, come on, let's get out the 61 clauses we agreed on. He said, Mr. Hamzacebi, he was in the delegation. We said, "Come on, let's get the 61 articles that four political parties agreed on out of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey." We won't bring anything different, we won't reveal the presidential system.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0094par0053	No, we never paged.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0096par0054	Second issue: Look, let's run the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on October 1st. The group's deputy leaders told us, but right now there's a lot of public pressure. It's about the subcontractors, the ones who died in the mine accident in Soma. And most importantly...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0097par0055	We said, "Bring the Soma. Bring the Soma." We said, "If you had asked, you would have taken it out before the House closed."
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0096par0056	There's a situation with teachers waiting for them. I'd like to remind you that Turkey stands in the archives of the Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0097par0057	You're not being honest.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0096par0058	I'm guessing the archives will show who signed off on the bill given by the signature of 12 groups of vice presidents.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0098par0059	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0099par0060	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement from here.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0098par0061	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0099par0063	Now, we've been negotiating the bag of legislation, but the offer came from the ruling party, so let's continue it in October. Let's take him to the end of part five, part six, then we'll meet in October. We were in favor of continuing, and the time had already been extended until the end of the 24th. We signed their proposals. We were behind our signature, we kept our word, but we weren't the ones who broke our word. The government would have thought of the pressure at that time.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0098par0064	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0100par0065	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0101par0066	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0100par0067	Sir, I'd like to make a brief statement about this if you'll turn on the microphone. The knowledge given by Mr. Elitas is contrary to the truth. They must have made a suggestion here in the middle of the night. Mr. Engin Altay, our vice president of the group, was on duty here. The other political party agreed with the group's representatives and was released on October 1st. Did you just think of Soma miners' rights and other miners' rights? Let's close it that night. Didn't you think of that? That's not the account, that's not the account. You didn't keep your promise, you weren't sincere. I told you, we can always get the teachers' staff out. Come on, let's get the teaching staff out of here. Since you're having an extraordinary meeting for Soma miners, tell us, let's come together, let's take it out, let's do it together.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0102par0072	All right, let's get it out on Monday.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0100par0073	No, there are two clauses there that are important to you: one is not implementing judicial decisions, decisions on appointments; two, decisions on privatisation. That's what you're really trying to do.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0102par0074	They've already passed their negotiations, they've been accepted.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0100par0075	If Soma miners were important, Congress wouldn't have closed that night. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0103par0078	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0104par0079	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0103par0080	Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0104par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. We signed a text saying that the General Assembly would not work until October 1st, after a group of AKP MPs called me in the middle of the night and called me to the General Assembly. Therefore, I agree with opposition parties' criticism on this issue, and we stand by our signature. The AKP Group is the one who fails to keep its promise.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0103par0084	Yes, thank you. Now, it's Kamer Young, the Tunceli MP who wants to speak for himself. Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0105par0090	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've been promised the Government Programme, and I'm paying my respects. I used to come out here with a flashlight, but just because I don't go out with a flashlight doesn't mean we forgot about the flashlight. I haven't forgotten your thefts, your corruption, I keep the lantern, and when the day comes, I will bring it back, and I will strike you in the face again, so that you may know it. Now, dear lawmakers, you know, this government programme was read here on September 1st. Now, a government program has been read so informally that two-thirds of it has been skipped, jumped, and studied here as Prime Minister. For once, there's no such impropriety. Bring the text you can read here. There may be little corrections, but two thirds of that have been skipped. Now, in fact, the government hasn't changed, guys. Potamian's gone, Crimean's gone. I mean, it's something that's now known to everyone. Now, Davutoglu, who came to the office of Prime Minister in this government, says in a speech with his bureaucrats at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Let's throw a few missiles at Süleyman Shah Turbesi, our soldiers there, and martyr our soldiers there, and then let's fight with Syria." Guys, he's not the one who gave this speech to the PM, he's going to jail, he's going to jail. But there's no law in the AKP people, there's not a lot of things, so he came here when things didn't happen. Now, a government has been established. Now, I'd like to describe a couple of ministers from this government. Now, Bekir Bozdağ... who are the friends of Bekir Bozdağ? December 17th and December 25th...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0106par0096	Mr. President, it's forbidden to engage in personality.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0105par0097	...the documents collected regarding the men of a criminal government... the prosecutor calls to the attorney general, the attorney general, the attorney general, go at midnight, remove that prosecutor, take those documents, tear them up and then close that investigation. He's coming in with a statement against him, giving back the House and returning it himself. If there was anyone else in a situation like this, he'd still be here in jail, not in the Department of Justice. There's another Nabi Hunter, who ruined Turkish national education, turned it into madrasa training. When he was mayor somewhere... Friends, I ask him, Recep Erdogan, then, where he is mayor...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0107par0100	When did Nabi Hunter become mayor?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0108par0101	You're lying!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0107par0102	When did he become mayor, Nabi Hunter?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0109par0103	...made and sold 10 or 12 apartments illegally on the forest grounds? Let him out, let him answer here. Now, our dear friends, look, this is the Government Program...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0110par0105	Where did Nabi Hunter become mayor?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0111par0106	You're the one who's lying!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0109par0107	...unfortunately, it's not something that will shed light on the future of Turkey, which will bring new Turkey. Now, Recep Erdogan says: "Sir, we have agreed with the Prime Minister, we will move the Çankaya Mansion to the Forest Farm, and the Prime Minister will be moved to the Çankaya Mansion." The Çankaya Mansion is a symbol of the state of the Republic of Turkey. The Chankaya Mansion is the seat of the Republic of Turkey, and it cannot be moved anywhere else. What they put in their minds is to give the Çankaya Mansion to TOKİ. And to give Bilal a number of credits to his own. But I'm warning Ahmet Davutoglu that the moment you attempt to do this, I'll go out and tell the people, O Turkish people, to take possession of this work established by President Ataturk, in Çankaya, and that we, as a people, will also ensure the preservation of the Presidential office in Çankaya, and that the illegal construction of the Ataturk Forest Farm, if necessary, will be destroyed. The state of this Republic of Turkey is not a rogue state.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0111par0109	You can't afford it.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0109par0110	Now, my friends, what he already called the new Turkey is that Ahmet Davutoglu has a book called "Strategic Depth," you know. In fact, it's what he calls a strategic depth, sir, a bottomless well. So we're going to throw the Republic of Turkey and the state of the secular Republic of Turkey into this well. Ahmet Davutoglu, you can't afford this! You don't destroy this state of the Republic of Turkey, nor Ne Tayyip does. They say that the state of the Republic of Turkey is a parentheses here. What does it say? In the Ottoman State, that is, that is, the Istolal War, the secular Republic of Turkey established, they were all a parenthesis, we will close the parentheses. And I'm telling him that the AKP government is a parentheses within the Republic of Turkey, and we're going to close that parentheses, friends, everyone needs to know that.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0112par0112	Dream... dream... dream... dream...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0109par0113	Now, friends, the people who wrote this program either didn't live in Turkey or were written by a brain produced by a lying machine. Now, friends, they say such words that we freeze to death. He says: "We will answer for every penny of the city. You have been in power for thirteen years. Yeah, the whole thing's out of control, the government's property's been looted. You've eliminated the judgment. They're talking about the legal state. Guys, now, what are they doing with the bag in the law? They remove the right of civil servants to prosecute, and they say, "We don't recognize the courts. " What kind of law state is this? Is that a thing? Yeah, well, people have a little bit of decency, a little bit of shame, so at least say the right things, guys. Look, there's a lot going on now. Now, Recep Erdogan's gone, bought a plane for $426 million.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0113par0116	The government took it, the government.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0109par0117	He goes somewhere every day! Wait a minute, you were chosen yesterday, you're traveling all over Turkey, all over the world. I wonder if he ever had dinner at home with his parents. Every day, he eats the government's bread, his food...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0114par0118	He's got a love for the country, you don't understand, you don't understand!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0109par0119	Yeah, you get a little bored, bro, you get a little bored. Now, fellas, look, he's done so much corruption, if you're asking about every penny... Look, my friends, members of lawmakers, for eight years the Court has not looked at the accounts of many public institutions, nor examined the accounts of municipalities. I. Look, the most simple of all, they destroyed the great concrete that he had built, which he had spent 182 trillion liras on the road to Eskişehir, and it went up to 182 trillion. You see, in Istanbul, Hardship Holdings bought the Bank of Maritime at first $69 million, sold it for $2.4 billion after a short term, and made a profit of $1.931 million out of $69 million. Then, the tender he made on the highways of Istanbul, the construction... Three hundred and eighty-six thousand square meters of illegal construction. If Erdoğan did or didn't do it, he'll tell him to come out here. Now, my friends, according to the Constitution, did you or did you not give a statement about your four ministers being corrupt, abused or abused? So, why don't you take care of all the arguments you've given us, the motion to investigate? Three months later, four months later, the commission doesn't serve. Now, the Constitution is clearly being violated. You don't know the law. Now, sir, do you know why you took a vacation from the coven? The reason you're leaving the parliament is because after Recep Erdogan was declared president on August 15th, he had to come and swear here, so you took a vacation for him, so he could... Now, guys, look, the manager of a bank with money in the shoebox at his house is lending $575 million to a company. He gives $35.5 million to a subsidiary and it sinks. My Tucson needs to build a Pertek bridge, which costs $100 million; friends, it hasn't been built in years. Now, they're talking about reform in Turkey... come on, I'll show you a Tucson, see how those roads are going. Guys, two cars don't go side by side on our county road. That's how you live and lie so much. Now, we've got a whole program in Turkey! Today 49 citizens of the Republic of Turkey are prisoners, my friends. Turkey's consulate is under siege. What kind of government are you? If you were a member of a respectable state, if you were a government, you would go and save those citizens. They're spreading such lies, sir, that if we go after them, they'll kill them. They say, they're lying. Behind the scenes, it's all about friends, deals. Now, they say, "Sir, we treat everyone equally. " Where do you act equally? You've always fooled the flame about citizens. Yes, Alevi citizens have a request to build a temple. Why don't you do it? Friends, look, in 12 years, in your time of power, you didn't hire a Alevi citizen, you always discriminated, you always hired your own men.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0115par0128	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0109par0129	Now, today, the son of Recep Tayyip Erdogan is donated to all the municipalities in Turkey by the state's enormous lands. Who do you forgive them for? Look, it's gonna be a lot harder on you than it's gonna be on you. You have no such thing as law, and I'm afraid the Republic of Turkey's state has lost a great deal of dignity to you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Ahmet Davutoglu did not find one friendly neighbor, but now that he is Prime Minister, he will turn the whole world against Turkey. That's what I see.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0116par0132	You keep seeing.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0109par0133	For this reason, this government programme is a lie, not based on facts, the law is underfoot, the judgment is over, but you will be severely questioned. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0116par0136	People don't believe you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0117par0137	Yes, thank you. Now it's the Deputy Prime Minister who wants to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0118par0141	Why don't people vote for you, listen up, Kamer.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0142	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I give you all my compliments and wish you the best of our work. Our 62nd Government's Programme, as you know, was presented to our House on 1 September by our Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, two days later, today, we are negotiating. So far, two of our dear friends, Mr. Buldan and Kürkçı, expressed their views on behalf of the People's Party's Movement Group, expressed their views on Mr. Halaçoğlu's behalf, Mr. Hursit Sun on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Naci Bostancı and Mr. Mustafa Elitaş on behalf of the EC PARTI. First of all, I want to thank these friends for their valuable ideas, their speech, their criticism, and their roadshows.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0120par0144	I spoke to him, too, Mr. Bulent. Didn't I talk to him?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0121par0145	Don't talk to him!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0146	Don't talk to him, don't talk to him.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0120par0147	I don't want to talk to you either. Come on. Why are you laughing like that? Is there anything to laugh about?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0148	We're like the Black Sea, and he wants his debt, and he says, "I don't know you." He says, "I don't know you." He says, "I don't know you."
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0120par0150	I don't even know you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0151	No, I'm not going to waste you, I've given you five minutes at the end of my words, so don't worry, but I don't want to upset you at first, so sit down until the end...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0120par0152	No, no, if you've got that power.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0153	My dear friends, Mr. Young, as you know, do you think it would be a 40-year-old Kaman? They say, in his usual manner, in his usual ugliness, in his usual insulting manner, he's making a speech here.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0120par0154	Is what I'm saying a lie?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0155	I've got all my notes, and at the end of my speeches, I'm going to give him the answer he deserves, so let's not waste 35 minutes.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0120par0156	You get the answer, you get the answer you deserve.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0157	Dear friends, I respect your opinion, your opinion, your criticism, and I want to take advantage of my dear friends speaking on behalf of the group. If there's any useful talks that will lead us, which they do, I got my notes -- I'm going to try to take advantage of our friends' opinions in that respect. During these talks, Mr. Ertugrul Kürkcı made his decision in advance, stating that he did not trust us, that he had no hope of us, of this government programme. Mr. Hursit said that the Sun was never hopeful. Mr. Halaçoglu appreciates it, and our expectation is that the new government will do good deeds, and if it does good deeds, we will be there for it, and we will always be there for it. And I thank you for that, because when I look at the new opinion of the presidents of the government and government program, I see a light in that direction. Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, Chairman of the People's Party of Cumhuriyet, thinks differently than Mr. Sun, I read his statements on Star Television: I do not have the habit of looking at a newly established Council of Ministers with prejudice. We'll look at his action, maybe he'll do a better job than we thought, this Cabinet, and then we'll applaud. But even if what they did was wrong, we'll go out and say it was wrong. There is an explanation for Mr. Bahçeli, the list of the Council of Ministers that was handed to Ahmet Davutoglu has been approved today by Erdogan, who prepared the name of the ministers. This is a criticism, and there is no insult. But he adds: "In spite of everything, I wish this new development to be good for our beloved nation, Turkish politics and democracy. This is what we think it should be. So, we need to look at the Government Programme with new hope, give the new Prime Minister an advance at least, make a note of how much of the allegations or programmes he has made in the Government Programme will be fulfilled, make a decision. But it may be that some of the provisions contained in an 185 - page government programme may have disturbed someone, and then they will undoubtedly do their criticism from the beginning.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0122par0160	187... You don't even know that. Not 185.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0161	Now, after saying these words, Mr. Group President, I think there has been a limit to some of the criticisms that Mr. Bostanci, our Acting President, has made in his usual wise manner and style. A miserable explanation for the criticism of the opposition, I think, is an irrefutable mistake. We will respect the opposition's explanations and criticisms, we may find them incomplete, we may find them wrong. And we will always maintain that style. But I think it's also a polemic that makes us all smile, and I'm sure Mr. Bostanci might have wanted to consider an assessment, not an insult. Dear friends, you know, on September 1st, our Prime Minister presented you here for an hour and a half without even drinking water from this glass, summing up the Government Program. Even though he has a program in Istanbul today, I have respect for the Parliament, and I want to listen to everyone. He said he'd finish the urgent and urgent work and come to Parliament. Our dear friend may have been critical of his absence without waiting for them, while our Prime Minister walked in the door and sat down. We all know that there's Kurultay who asks why Mr. Kilicdaroglu wasn't here today and why he didn't show up on September 1st, he's in a hurry. A general president is probably busy with him. You can find an excuse by calling him that. That excuse might be right. Why do you find the fact that a Prime Minister arrived here a little later in the first few days with such urgency and urgency?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0123par0164	What could be more important than the government programme?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0165	But you've all seen that I'm your friend who's going to be having this conversation, and I've got notes from all the speakers from where I'm sitting so I can answer their criticism. At least 20 ministers from our government were here. So I don't think we should make this a criticism issue. The purpose of Mr. Hamzacebi was, of course, to have the Prime Minister present and present in Parliament, and I think that's what happened. We'll always respect our House, our schedule, our budget, and when it comes to it, we'll be able to consider the most important issues with you. My dear friends, the AK PARTY authorities continue. We don't form the first government of the AK PARTY. This is the 1st government of the EC PARTY 1, 2, 3, 4... which is the first government since the 2002 elections. He began his post with a vote of confidence at 28/11/2002, lasted about four months, and was later relieved when Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan was elected MP from the district of Siirt. Until the last few days, Mr. Erdogan received the vote of confidence on March 23, 2003, 11 years and 5 months are in constant Prime Ministership until August 29, 2014. By the way, the government of Erdogan was established by Mr. Erdoğan three times again by Mr. Erdogan and represented the government of a government which has been without fault and stable for the longest time since the Democratic Party period in the history of the Republic of Turkey since. Now, no doubt the Prime Minister of our 62nd Government has changed in negotiating on the Government Programme. You tell me the process, and I'll make it brief, but the 62nd government is the remainder of the 58, 59, 60, and especially 61. There is a new Prime Minister, some ministers have entered the new government. Thus, we have come before you with a new government programme, which is required by our Constitution to restore confidence. Now, I can tell you that our 62nd government operates with a sense of stability and continuity and a sense of progress towards further goals, and that the 62nd government has prepared our country for 2015 and later, with its vision of future achievements. I'd like to say that some of our fellow speakers may think that the government, which is formed, will be very short-lived, will serve until the 2015 elections. This is not an eight-month government, you know, from our 185-page government programme and our Prime Minister's speech at the EC PARTY General Assembly. This is a government that will win the 2015 elections and again rule alone. Of course, there is a four-year period of stability after the 2015 elections. There is no election until 2019, and in 2019, the presidential election, local elections and parliamentary general elections will be held together. Therefore, if there is a chance in 2015 and by the permission of our Lord, we will no doubt see that when we are again in power by the will of our nation, we will carry out all the remaining goals of 2023 by 2019. Mr. Davutoglu is a powerful Prime Minister, not a trustee, he is not at all under guardianship, he has been elected by the vote of 1.348 delegates and, hopefully, he will carry the support of our Parliament behind him again, with more than 300 put-in votes, and he is a Prime Minister who has the hope of our organization and our government and Turkey, and I wish him success. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear friends, I have made some notes, no doubt, from time to time, but first I would like to inform you about the vision of the 62nd government and what we want to do. And I won't be in a position to disturb this decent meeting today that will lead to polemics. First of all, parallel construction or parallel state construction, whatever name you call it, is real for Turkey today, real for real, tangible. In this regard, Mr. Sun has mentioned a television speech that I've done in the past, which is completely true, or an article in the newspapers, which is also true. I've been in this Parliament for twenty years, and every time I say: "What comes out of my mouth is true, and what comes out of my mouth is true; whether I bear the consequence of it, or I think of myself as an unforgivable crime, but it is the words of the man that speak the truth, and it may often be necessary to keep them. It's true that I should have this conversation, but this is not the first time I've had that conversation, and I haven't had the last. I've said those words since my Parliamentary presidency, before him, the 1970s, the 1980s, the 1990s, when you've all been silent, even ignored, even feared, criticized, considered dangerous, a secret organization, and fled to their schools. My dear friends, the fact is that, yes, when we have these conversations, when we have these conversations, I ask you to believe in my complete purity, what we saw was that, whether we call it the congregation or not the congregation, let's call it the community, let's call it the Service Movement, let's call it the Service Movement, let's call it the Education Volunteer movement, we believed it. Everywhere I went, every time I spoke, I said how useful the schools abroad were, how proud it was to listen to our Istrillal Anthem, how great sacrifice the teachers were in there, what a bridge of friendship they were in between Turkey and that country. You can find those words and take them out. It's funny -- Mr. Sun doesn't need to talk about it -- they're doing the same thing now, and they're serving stuff from videos and websites that I've been talking about all these years. Yeah, something happened. We didn't see them as a political move. I have to say, I've been in politics for 40 years since the past. This move, it's time, it's time to support the Democratic Left Party. We're not mad at them, I personally didn't criticize them for their political choices. Those who were with me criticized me. I said, "How can they vote for the DSP?" I said, "It's their choice." The time has come, many times they've supported the Motherland Party. I said it's nothing. It's their political choice. The time has come, they've supported us, they've voted for us. That's how they voted not only in the September 12, 2010 referendum, but in the local elections, and in the general elections, but lastly, we know that they worked for you after these things came out, and we know that they went door-to-door. And because of that...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0124par0175	What did you give him, Mr. Secretary? What did you give him, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0176	Dear brothers, please... They gave it to CHP, they gave it to the MPP, they gave it to BDP.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0125par0178	They gave it to you. Don't deny it, brother!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0179	Look, what I'm trying to say is that because of their political attitude, we've criticized them, we haven't ignored them. It's not the corruption allegations on December 17th that's what's opening our eyes right now. Let me tell you something you never knew: I've been a human being in this community for 30 years. Until December 17th, I didn't hear the word "corruption" out of their mouths. A minister, a deputy, a bureaucrat from the Justice and Development Party. I didn't get a complaint. Did Revelation come, and on December 17th, the allegations of corruption were exposed?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0125par0182	There's been a wiretap.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0183	Guys, this is what opens our eyes. You can cooperate with them now. Now, someone in a T-shirt is putting on a show in front of the police station. The people who did those shows were doing other shows in other places. A law enforcement officer informs the Internet when an operation is going to be done, so the T-shirts are being prepared, and the PR work is being done, according to him, people are being called, they're being turned into heroics, and many of you -- I'm praising the MP -- but from the People's Party of the Republic -- are showing zeros, fucking ▪. Who are you with? Who are you with?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0126par0185	They were lawmakers among you, MPs among you!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0127par0186	Mr. Bulent, ten years, ten years!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0187	Friends, what happened to a community that didn't utter the word "corruption" until December 17th, when those ministers, these, these, these, these, these, are doing. Guys, let's just say that they were silent until that day, and it's time for that, but please, guys, why don't you see that this is a political operation?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0128par0189	Where are the ministers?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0190	I think the most serious lever to overthrow this government is that these allegations are being raised.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0129par0191	Why hasn't MIT told you in ten years?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0192	My dear friends, let's not meet face to face.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0129par0193	Why haven't you heard anything about this from MIT (MIT) in ten years?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0130par0194	Mr. Kören...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0195	Guys, look, I don't talk to this like a stranger, like you do. Whether you believe it or not.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0129par0196	I'm asking questions.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0197	I mean, I've been in the middle of all the people you've been running from. What I want to say is that it's the work of decent people, it's the work of all of us, it's the work of decent people, it's the claim of corruption, it's the pursuit of corruption, it's the work of the corrupt.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0131par0199	That's right, that's right!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0200	No one can remain silent in the face of corruption, and no one can imagine that my interests would then be cut off in the face of corruption. Anyone who wants to defend the people's law, wherever they smell corruption, they go and report it, prove it, and file a complaint against the necessary authorities.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0132par0201	Why did you depose the judges? Why don't you relieve the prosecutors?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0202	If a government that's been in power for 12 years, a government that's run the quadrillion-year budgets has infected public resources with corruption, and you know it, why did you wait for December 17th, my beautiful brother?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0133par0204	Where are the ministers?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0205	Guys, look...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0134par0206	Why didn't the MIT bring you information for ten years, and why didn't the MIT give you information?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0207	Look, my friends, in the allegations of the ministers, our government has done its due, and our group has done its due.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0135par0208	What did he do? He didn't.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0209	What did he do? If you look at this Constitution and the Civil Code, anyone can see how a minister can be blamed.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0135par0210	Where are the arguments? Where's the motion for an investigation?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0211	When the ministers are charged with any criminal activity during their duties, the answer is investigation.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0135par0212	Where is it? You're blocking it, you're blocking it.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0213	55 lawmakers sign and he gets an investigation motion. Here, it was accepted by more than 400 votes. This isn't the first time. It happened in Koray Aydın, it was about the former Minister of Health, it was about Mesut Yilmaz, it was about the former Minister of Energy. We were just sitting there, then, as the Ponzi scheme. I'm a friend of yours who knows these files. Most of them went to the Supreme Court. There were people at the Constitutional Court who were acquitted by one vote; we know all of them. I'll tell you this: it's categorically corrupt without asking for a parliamentary investigation. It's not right to accuse in advance, it's necessary to look at the results of the investigation. They were going to give the investigation commission members. I don't have the right, nor is it my duty, but if the AK PARTY is deliberately delaying the group after my meeting after the Council of Ministers, ask him about his account. Who can say that in Turkey?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0136par0216	What did you do when you told me?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0137par0217	You said it on purpose, on purpose.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0218	The AK PARTI Group rightly said: "We have to choose the people who have not paid attention to the investigation commission when they're being assigned to the investigation board. " If you say they're after you, they're criminals, they're thieves, then you can't be a member of the commission. The MHP showed that respect, but all the feelings that came from you were poured out of the Internet, put on the search engine, and there was nothing left to say. So they did their own research, and you did it, and finally there was a commission, a vacation.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0138par0219	Where?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0137par0220	What holiday, return the documents...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0221	Oh, he'll do his duty after October 1st. If he doesn't, you can still criticize him, say what's politically necessary, but you can't look at anyone as guilty after all.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0137par0222	You covered it up, cover it up.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0223	The congressman's immunity comes up, and another thing is something else. That doesn't apply by throwing the Constitution. We must apply what is in the Constitution. Whatever has been applied to ministers in the past, whatever has been applied to the prime ministers, the Constitution has basically shown it. My dear brothers, look, I'll tell you this: this structure, what we call the parallel state structure, you can call it other names, I think our Prime Minister said the most beautiful in his speech in Congress. For 12 years, Mr. Erdogan may come as a souvenir, so, perhaps to make a distinction, I would like to rephrase Mr. Davutoglu's statement to you in the General Assembly: the parallel state structure is a structure that requires conquest. There is a period of fetish in Osmanlı, you all know very well, Mr. Halaçoglu is already the master of it. His Çelebi Sultan Mehmet is still a Metfun in Bursa. We've opened a beautiful street in the past few days, whose name has not been given anywhere, and we've named it after Sultan Mehmet Çelebi. See, parallel state structure is a form that requires a fetish. No matter who it is, we will never allow the state authority to fall apart again, and if anyone wants to use the political authority that the nation has chosen, it will come out of the red tape and the safety case, and he will do politics like us. From now on, no matter who wants to take over the state, parallel or junta or anything else, the nation will not be able to prevent its will. (APPLAUSE) So what we do is, if there's an illegal structure within the state, there may be a parallel structure within the state, there may be a parallel structure outside, and at some point that's been used to build the KCK, and that's what was used to build the city, so there's been lawsuits, there's been allegations, there's been arguments, there's defences. So, there's a state, a second state, a second judiciary, a second bureaucracy, a second authoritarian system we're not going to allow in this country. If we are a state of law, we are also democratic, secular, social, but as a state of law, the bureaucracy of this country is defined, its authority is established, its judgment is established; if we allow the second, and the third, there will be no AK PARTI left, there will be no CHP, there will be no HDP. In order to protect democracy, we must not allow the second, third. Is there such a claim? Guys, these operations, these administrative savings, they're not for nothing. The existence of a small structure inside the police force used to be said, it was not known what they were doing. Look, we got 300,000 cops, rank, no rank. In 300 grand, maybe 300, 500...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0139par0225	How could it not be known, how could it not be known? It's not true if you say it was unknowable.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0226	Mr. Governor, you must have known, but you're more familiar with your meetings with Chief Sav. You may not have thought of it.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0139par0228	You knew it well, and half this agency knew it!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0229	Look, guys, I'm in the police department... praising all my cop friends. The police are a civilian institution, responsible for our security, and they're all patriots, all of which are a community of martyrs, veterans who do their job well, but a small community is working not to perform the duties given by its superiors, but to perform the duties given by its imams, and if they're cooperating with a political operation, I'm not saying, I'm saying, some of them are very big facts, and we can't allow that.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0139par0231	Ask there, look, there's the chief of police, Mr. Secretary-General, there's the chief of police.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0232	If this provision in the police is coming from there without opening the lid of the case under the direction of their brothers, then there is a decision for him. If he is acting in his mind, then we are against it. None of the government would allow it. I've mentioned their names in I.T., I.T.B., T.I.B., T.B.I.T.,T.I.T.T.T.I.A., or elsewhere, because of some of the transactions that have been done, but let's know that there may be abusers, abusers in every profession. What we do is not gestapoism. We'll fight in the law, our whole fight will be in the legal framework. The detentions are all for a reason; it's either falsification in the official document, or it's private documents, or it's wiretaps, or it's unauthorized indictments, etc. If a structure that would involve all of this is out of the law, if it's out of the state, it's out of the state, and it's just to discredit the inside, and it's only to overthrow this government, it could happen to you tomorrow. So, all of us have to do our duty by hand, by making a loud statement, and by preaching, wherever there is a lawless act being done, by never allowing illegal action. I sincerely believe that at least 2 million people in this community are innocent, as those who actually contribute to charity as sympathizers. I've spoken 50 times to this day, and I've said this sentence 50 times, and some of my friends may not like me, that's the truth. All hail the people who, in the name of the school service, serve the teachers, hold their daughters in the street, and, in the thought of providing them with scholarships in this house, hold three children and run after them. We have no case with them, no quarrel with them, no evil thoughts with them.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0140par0233	It's not like confession.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0234	But if there's a gang out there that uses them, claims to be self-conscious in some way, but has different connections inside and out, we're going to destroy it, and everyone needs to know that.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0141par0236	What about the law, the law?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0237	My dear friends, the 62nd Government Programme represents both continuity and the spirit of change at the same time. Let me put it in a few words: I just presented the continuum. Since 2002, all our governments have continued strongly with their actions, with the vision of the EC PARTY. Thank God we're proud, so you believe, that's democracy. We've had three parliamentary general elections, 35 percent, 47 percent, 50 percent. Eleven years, eleven and a half, twelve years in power. Our people voted for it, our people voted for it.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0142par0238	Why don't you take down your 10% dam?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0239	We've run three local elections, and we've successfully made three local elections. We won 61 per cent of all municipalities in the last election. We successfully got out of two referendums, and for the first time, with the public's direct vote, we elected the presidency, and the President was elected by 52 per cent. There were three worthy candidates, one in 38, one in nine, one in nine, nine and a half, and we chose our President with 52 percent -- without question -- that none of you even needed to discuss it. Imagine, there were two presidents in this party, and for the first time in Turkish political history, our 12th President was elected by the people's votes. We congratulate him and admire him. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, in 11 years and five months as Prime Minister, everyone wondered what would happen if a man who had made his party so successful in the election went up to the presidency and his party stayed behind because they showed the Motherland Party when we looked at the example of the deceased Ozal in the past. When we looked at Mr. Demirel's rise to the presidency, they showed the fate of the Right Path Party. There's going to be a fight inside, 18 people, 20 people fighting, then one of them coming in fighting, the party going down, the breakups, the divides. When you look back, it's not wrong, it's not wrong, but it didn't happen to us. We know what is right and what is wrong, and We know what is wrong, and We know what is wrong. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We set out for this country, and praise God, our only cause is the trial of Turkey, our nation's cause, to serve it. We've identified politics as an indexed policy in a service, and our 12 years of work is the equivalent of that. We've done everything in our dynamics. It's been discussed, discussed, conferred, and we've all applauded that a dear minister friend, a friend of ours, who, on the first day, we'd all agree with an alliance, was announced as a result of long consultations, which we all applauded. Can you imagine, as one of those mentioned or mentioned, that's what I'm saying. We had other friends named and passed on, which one did you hear a complaint about? Which of them did you see that would be a trial? Which one? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, I think this is a beautiful transition because these transitional processes have always been painful when we look at our democracy. It couldn't have been easy for those parties, it must have been difficult, but that's not how the AK PARTY happened. Our presidential candidate was announced at the beginning of July, the back process passed, we ran the elections on August 10th, we were elected in the first round, and then we identified our candidate for President General. We believed the same person would be Prime Minister, and we all went to Congress. With 1,348 signatures, alliances; from behind, running for president; from behind, from the chest.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0143par0244	This is democracy!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0245	Yeah, that's democracy. Democracy, to uphold its signature; democracy, to support what it likes; democracy, to glorify its party; democracy, to open Turkey to new horizons without quarrels, without intrigue, without blood, without deceit, without deceit; that's what we're doing. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Dear friends, there are six invalids to vote for, and the rest, who can argue with that. Here's the problem: Trouble, he was elected President on August 10th, and the Supreme Election Board on 15th of August announced with final results that he had won the election. So, what's he doing up to 28? I just told you, we're a state of law, we need to look at law. We looked at it, and you didn't look at it, and the answer came from everywhere you applied, and there was nowhere you didn't go, and there was no door you didn't knock on.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0144par0248	There's no impartial judgment!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0145par0249	Did you put up a law?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0250	You still think the Supreme Court is the same. I think that's what we call new Turkey.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0145par0252	You did that!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0253	Friends, they've been everywhere, they've been rejected everywhere, they're not sick of it, but by the way, there's 28 of them.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0145par0254	You're the one who made the HSYK the backyard, but it didn't work!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0255	Mr. Ahmet, for God's sake, it's over, it's over, you're shouting for nothing, it's worthless.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0145par0256	No, no, you're bringing back the law. Try.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0257	That's bullshit. I told my Attila Card friend, and I told him, "Don't waste your time, read the law, use your minds."
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0145par0258	You've finished the law!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0259	Tell me about the places where you'll get results. Dear friends, can you look at this now, we've thought about it, see how we thought about it, and I can say, praise be to God, our friends here at MKYK, our other friends here, we're not talking about this for nothing. What does the last joke of Article 101 of the Constitution mean, what does the first joke of Article 103 mean? When will an elected President be elected on August 10th, and when will he be in office? This is, believe me, with our constitutional lawyers, looking at their precedents because they were the first to come to practice.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0146par0261	We know how you got the president of the YSK.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0262	...and even as we looked at the decisions of the Supreme Court of Appeals General Assembly, we thought, my dear friends, this is the first time we've made the presidential election. After 2007, we waited seven years, but two years ago, we passed the Presidential Election Law. The presidential election law is a special law, and a special law has been enforced. When will the special law be given to the court, what will the election results mean, when will he begin his mission? It's written very clearly. Our decision was this and we believed that it was true, and all the authorities also believed that it was true: it is different to declare that a President was elected; it is possible to begin the last by taking over at the end of the term of the previous President's term, by making an oath. We're confused, too. Yes, a human being is both the President-General and the President-elect. What do you know, what's going to happen, brother, what's going to happen?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0147par0264	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0148par0265	God gives more and more.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0266	So I'm going to say that I'm a victim, and I'm not going to bring it up today. Well, well, well, well, well. The President and the Prime Minister. Well, that's what the Constitution says, we didn't ask for it. Didn't we? You might think: " This man did it for eighteen extra days, from August 10th to the 28th. But why don't you remember 2007? In 2007, Mr. Ahmet Necdet Sezer was served by Mr. Nacdet Sezer in May, and I am the Speaker of Parliament. Sir, how did our President take over the presidency for four and a half months, when I was supposed to represent him after his mission was over, and what right did he have, and what duty did he perform?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0149par0268	Did they go to court, then?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0269	We also have to think that our President was elected or elected with 56 per cent in the second round of August 24th, not August 10th. Well, what would happen then? So the law convicted on the second round. So after you were elected on the 24th, you haven't been Prime Minister since 15?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0150par0270	Sure.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0271	Is that supposed to be a judgment? There's wisdom, there's logic...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0151par0272	Where, where?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0273	Mr. Young, I don't know how much you have everywhere. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear brothers - oh, we're in the last three minutes! - 2023 targets, don't get me started.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0152par0276	There's no need!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0277	Guys, the solution process is a big deal. The solution process is very important...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0153par0278	What is it with these 49 people, Mr. Bulent? At this Mosul consulate...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0279	That's important too. Bravo, you say. About the solution process...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0154par0280	Two minutes to go, but Mr. Secretary, you've left the solution process in the last two minutes, so be it love!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0281	What should I do? I mean, I didn't realize I was coming here. I'm sorry, but I hope to tell you at another meeting. Now, Mr. Sun has given some examples, saying that no one knows about this solution process.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0155par0283	He doesn't know!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0284	I don't care about that place, but our people don't know it either. I mean, Mr. Hodja, we also had a commission here. He said something like that. That's not important, you know what's important? On 10 July 2014, we passed the Law on Ending Terror and Enhancing Social Integration in this Parliament. I mean, about a month ago. So, how did this law come about? I got the results of the open vote. Now, I don't want to read the CHP people who vote yes, let's not make it difficult for them to do so, because there's a convention tomorrow, and I'd like to say something else.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0156par0286	It'll be fine, don't worry, read it!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0287	Look, 274 people were involved, 235 in favor, 36 in denial. Most of the admissions are from us, no doubt from my HDP friends. Do you know what the People of the CHP have done? They didn't, and they all voted yes. Mr. Sun, good morning!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0157par0289	What is this?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0290	My dear friends, the process of resolution is an important issue that we see as a matter of existence and absence. We're going to keep this going, and we're going to do great things, and we're going to do good things, and we're going to bring them to our Parliament, and we're going to give them information, and we're going to do it together. Even the law you object to most of all has 36 rejections. The MHP is not giving up its stance, so congratulations should be made to the MHP. Why? Even if it's wrong, he won't give up his stance. He voted 36 votes, 30 votes. But why don't you do this, and we'll vote. You've only been around six people, and the rest of them voted. Let you know that this law is now a framework law, road map, all of what is to be done will be done according to the provisions within it, and in part by passing it to the public from time to time, in a routine way, and in part, if legal arrangements are needed, it will undoubtedly come to our Parliament, and perhaps due to the nature of some issues, we do not have to talk about them out there every day, but those involved will surely know about these matters.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0158par0293	Will the Chief of Staff know?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0294	Friends, I swear to you yesterday that our brothers in Mosul, our citizens, will be saved, and everything we need is being done more than enough. We're talking to relatives, we're supporting their psychology, we're in touch with them.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0158par0295	It's been two months, Mr. Secretary. No one knows whether he is dead or alive.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0159par0296	Why do you need to swear, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0297	But it's not human to try to make the subject of life, the subject of life, the gum in the mouth, and try to wear down the government from here.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0160par0298	Show that you're a great government, a great state.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0161par0299	You're showing your weakness.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0300	Their lives are at stake. In a place where their lives are at stake, we'll have to wait patiently and as part of the government's mission.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0162par0301	Mr. Secretary, when he speaks without swearing, he must say incredible things, he swears to believe them.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0119par0302	I'm afraid I'm out of time on our government programme. I thank you all so much again. There's no time left for the young man, and it's a good thing. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0163par0306	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0164par0307	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0165par0308	Here, Mr. Hamzacebi, let's start with you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0163par0309	Sir, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bkent Arinc, in his speech, gave misleading information on the relationship of the Republican People's Party, as he called the parallel structure. Secondly, the President made a completely unconstitutional assessment of the election process when he was making an assessment of us again. I want word on Article 69, sir.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0165par0311	Then I'll give it to you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0163par0312	Mr. President, look, I'll bring it up.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0165par0313	Mr. Hamzacebi, you know the drill.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0163par0314	Wait a second... Sir, there's teasing. Look...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0165par0316	No, you didn't ask for a word because of the bullying. If you've asked for a word of bullying, then be my guest. Two minutes, I promise. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0166par0319	No, I connected my last sentence to Article 69. Mr. President, you probably didn't listen to me.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0165par0320	Then I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0166par0321	No, according to Article 69, because of bullying...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0165par0322	Okay, I promise you two minutes because of the bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0166par0327	I regretfully watched Mr. Bulent Arinc speak. To my surprise, I was surprised to hear from the mouth of Mr. Arinc, an opinion that was contrary to the Constitution. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan has come to the Mansion by violating the Constitution, which is very clear. Time is short, but Mr. Arinc has said one more thing: despite the fact that Mr. Ahmet Necdet Sezer had completed his term of duty, I was Speaker of Parliament, he did not give me power of attorney, he continued to be president for four and a half months. Perhaps you've missed it with this intensity. The main reason I wanted to say, Mr. Arinc, parallel structure, service movement, training volunteers, whatever name we call it, has made a miscalculation on the relationship of the Republican People's Party. It was as if the Republican People's Party had made an assessment of this formation as if they were together. Dear friends, one more thing: the parallel structure has not told me anything about the corruption of our ministers until now, until December 17th. Yes, they haven't told Mr. Arinc, but the Undersecretary of the MIT wants their ministers to draw attention to the affair with Reza Sarraf, putting a note in front of the Prime Minister in April 2013. Mr. Arinc may not have heard about this, because it is given to the Prime Minister. Dear friends, we are prepared to fight against any illegal activity within the state. Wherever there is injustice, we go about it with injustice. Yesterday, we went over the injustice of Ergenekon, and we went over the sledgehammer, and if you're doing illegal work to the police in the building you call a parallel structure, we'll go over it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We don't have the understanding to tolerate or tolerate that illegality by acting without an assessment of the identity of the person who's engaged in illegality. We're in favor of the state of law. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0167par0336	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0168par0337	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0169par0338	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0167par0339	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu. One moment, Mr. Sun, I see...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0169par0341	Mr. President, Mr. Arinc, I believe...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0170par0342	They gave ten seats to Pennsylvania in the party council. It's in the press now.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0171par0343	You had ministers. So what if he's going to the party council?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0170par0344	He's going in, so...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0171par0345	You've been a minister for 12 years, a partner!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0170par0346	Good luck with that.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0171par0347	You took advantage, we don't need it.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0172par0348	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0173par0349	Mr. President said we voted wrong about the opening.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0172par0350	I don't understand, Mr. Halaçoglu, just a second...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0173par0351	He described the countervote we used on the terror law as the wrong vote. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0174par0352	No, that's not a statement, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0172par0353	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I promise you in two minutes.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0174par0356	No, it's right, it's wrong. It's an attitude, we congratulate him. He said.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0175par0358	Thank you. ▪ No one is now able to identify right or wrong. From our point of view, that law that you made was wrong, but it was a law that violates the Constitution beyond just wrong. So you can't call it wrong for us to give him no. If the solution process is wrong, it will come out much more clearly after your applications. Now, look, first you have to respect the state of law. When the secretary, who worked for the Minister of Defence in Germany, was a Russian agent, the German Defence Minister resigned. Now, you're arresting and detaining the guys you've been with for 12 years, the ones you brought in today. And what do you think 12 years of error should be worth? Is it just to hold those people and throw them in, or is it to prove that those who have been wrong for 12 years can't run a government? First, you have to look at this. [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] Therefore, not only do you make your assessments, but the votes used by the opposition are just as valuable as your yes. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0176par0366	Yes, thank you. Mr. Sun, come in. What did you want to say?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0177par0369	Sir, Mr. Arinc has used my name twice to taunt me. I want to make a statement.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0178par0370	He didn't make a statement that required bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0176par0371	No, he used it twice. What did he say? Just because he uses your name twice doesn't mean he's picking on you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0177par0372	In one, he said, "Good morning." Didn't you hear? He said, "Good morning." He said, "Have you just sobered up?" So let me give him an answer.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0176par0373	But Mr. Sun, you know, we're asking the congressman, who wants to talk about every bullying, what did he say? Here you go. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0179par0377	Yes, dear friends, first of all, I congratulate Mr. Arinc. Why am I celebrating? Because he expressed that what I said about him was true and that he stood by them. I think that's a good attitude. I stand by them, he said.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0180par0378	The usual.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0181par0379	Yeah, well, you stick to what you say.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0179par0380	Yes, sir. Give me a minute... he stood behind her, we say something good, but...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0181par0381	But you broke the context.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0179par0382	Allow me, sir, if you don't want me to talk, I'll get out.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0181par0383	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0179par0384	Now, he said something, look, this place is very important: those who haven't talked about corruption in the last ten years came on December 17th -- what's up, they suddenly talked about corruption.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0182par0385	Is he going to the party council or not?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0179par0386	Good, good, sir. But he said one more thing, I've been in them for 40 years, and I know them very well. If you don't know that the community, the community, the service movement that you've been in for 40 years, how can we trust you and trust you after so many years of your ignorance? That's why I said we're desperate for you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0183par0387	The great people trust us, it doesn't matter if you trust us.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0179par0388	Now, look, Mr. Arinc, I mentioned the Kurdish problem.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0183par0389	People are counting on it, people!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0179par0390	I told you in parliament where to solve the Kurdish problem as a partner, but you were probably busy at the time, or your mind was somewhere else. I've written down numbers, I've explained the difference between our Kurdish-rooted citizens and our Turkish-language citizens, but of course, you may be busy, the government's work is very busy, you may not have listened to them, then you wake up and say good morning to me. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0184par0393	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0185par0394	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0184par0395	Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0185par0396	In his speech, he said: "Camer Boy always displays his ugliness. " I want to talk about bullying, sir.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0184par0397	Here you go, young man, and I promise not to tease you for two minutes.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0185par0399	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, people who come here on behalf of the government need to speak the truth, not lie. Now, once he goes, he says: I serve... I mean, he says he's in the Fethullah Gulen movement. If that's a crime, so are you.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0186par0400	That's not what he said.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0185par0401	When he served as Parliament Speaker in the past, Brent Arinc said: "You can't prove that I took a man whose last name is Arinc. If you can prove it... he said something, I'm not saying it now. Sir, three people are named Arinc.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0187par0402	Where's your son? Where does your son work?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0185par0403	Now, my friends, they called it a parallel judiciary. Look, they said themselves...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0187par0404	Where's your son? Where does your kid work?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0188par0405	Mr. New, please, Mr. New...
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0187par0406	Where's his kid, where does he work?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0189par0407	The soldiers were set up. They said.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0187par0408	Where does your son work?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0189par0409	Get out here and talk. The soldiers were set up. They said. Well, you've destroyed our soldiers, the army, the navy, you've destroyed the Marines, you've thrown them back 50 years. Now Russia is interfering with Crimea, the Turkish navy? You destroyed them. So, the navy you destroyed took away the independence of the Turkish nation. Well, weren't you in it when he set these soldiers up? I thought they were supposed to kill you. What happened? You reported it, you went, the officers came, no sir, they took paper in their mouths, and they swallowed it, so come out here... look, if you're a responsible person, you slandered the army, you slandered the officers, you lied to them, and you have to quit for slandering them.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0190par0411	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0189par0412	Besides, I'm not being ugly, which one of the corruptions I said about you is that? He says, sir... on December 17th and December 25th, the thefts of the ministers of your government were discovered.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0190par0413	Get out of here, come on!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0189par0414	Under Erdogan's son's house came a ton of money, they carried it, they sent it away by plane. Why are you blocking all this?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0191par0416	Mr. President, would you look at the time?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0189par0417	They also paid Ali Fuat Yiker, friends, 500 salary bonuses.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0192par0418	Where does your son work?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0193par0419	Let's go, come on!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0189par0420	Today, you've paid what they call a parallel, a 500-pay bonus to a man they call respect. That's how much you've paid for them, and now you're saying they're guilty.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0192par0422	You didn't tell me where your son works.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0194par0423	Thank you, Mr. Young. Now, Yilmaz Tunç, who has asked for a personal word on the Council of Ministers' Programme, is Bartın MP. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0195par0429	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 62nd Government Programme. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. We are about to complete negotiations on the 5th programme of 12 years of EC PARTY power. This programme is a bridge between the brilliant past of previous AK PARTI governments and the bright future set before the 62nd government, and is the name of the crowning of the silent revolution, which has been carried out in every area in the past 12 years. Dear lawmakers, August 10, 2014 is a very meaningful day in the history of Turkey for two thousand years. For the first time, our nation has chosen the president directly and opened the doors to the new Turkey. The election of the President by the public is the most important of democratic reforms carried out by the EC PARTY governments. The synergy of a strong Prime Minister elected by the elected strong President and the government's harmonised work will strengthen Turkey's power. We've heard opposition speakers talk about the government programme. Those who don't remember 12 years ago may believe for a moment what the opposition said, but there's no way we can erase the situation that Turkey was in 12 years ago. Twelve years ago, there was old Turkey, valued lawmakers. In ancient Turkey, guardian understanding did not impose political will. In ancient Turkey, there were gangs, mafias; they wrote scripts against national will, and they produced dark plans. There was an extraordinary state of old Turkey, terror, unknowns. There were tears in ancient Turkey. There was torture at the old Turkish outposts. There were villages in ancient Turkey that were evacuated, burned, destroyed. In ancient Turkey, there were mothers in prison who could not speak their native language with their child. In the old Turkish province, they had offices of persuasion at universities, let alone a headscarf and a public office. Our girls who didn't want to be convinced would be thrown out of the college door by the collar. There was inflation in ancient Turkey, an economy that was constantly shrinking. Old Turkey had an IMF. The old Turkey owed Turkey.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0196par0434	He's in debt now!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0195par0435	In ancient Turkey, there was six zeroes in front of $1, and our money had no credibility. Eighty-six lira of the $100 tax collected in ancient Turkey was going to the interest lobby. Let alone investing, our workers, our officers, our pensions, the IMF doors used to sit hand-to-hand at hand. In ancient Turkey, the dollar doubled in one night, the interest went up to 5,000 per night, 7,000 per night, people were reduced overnight. In ancient Turkey, the Central Bank was fully equipped with the vault. Public banks were being damaged by billions of dollars, private banks were being sunk one by one, and over $50 billion was being billed. In ancient Turkey, money was cut off from workers, civil servants by various names, never to be paid again, forgotten. In ancient Turkey, the farmer's tractor was foreclosed. In ancient Turkey, the tradesman shuts down, falls out on the streets, throws the cash register, the cash register. (AK PARTY) In the national income of the former Turkey was four times smaller than today's Turkey, four times smaller.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0197par0436	You've banned everything!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0195par0437	Before the AK PARTY, there was former Turkey, valued lawmakers. You couldn't go to any hospital you wanted in old Turkey. In old Turkey, you couldn't have taken medicine from any hospital, any pharmacy you wanted. The helicopter ambulance, the plane ambulance, the palette ambulance was not even a dream in old Turkey.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0198par0439	Do you believe what he says?
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0195par0440	The black ambulance couldn't have diesel, diesel, valuable lawmakers. (EA/DG) In the hospitals of the former Turkey, for CT, the MRI would be given a year's notice, valued lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0198par0441	Now they're giving us two years for surgery, two years!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0195par0442	Old Turkey had money for knives. Our citizen couldn't have taken his baby, his funeral, the precious lawmakers, who died in the hospital without paying for it.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0199par0443	Funerals are carried in a sack in New Turkey!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0195par0444	Is there anyone at home today who remembers our disabled and elderly in Turkey, where the state extends its tender hand with care fees and services? In ancient Turkey, there were narrow roads that turned into a pool of blood, valued MPs. In ancient Turkey, 11 governments, 16 ministers of Bolu Mountain Tunnel failed to finish. Today, we proudly watch hundreds of tunnels, thousands of miles of double roads across the country, hundreds of thousands of public housing, fast trains, viaducts, tunnels under the sea, the world's largest bridges, the world's largest airports were not even a dream in old Turkey. In ancient Turkey there were villages without roads, villages without water.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0200par0446	There is now.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0195par0447	In ancient Turkey, there will be universities in every province, and there will be universities in Tunisia, not even a dream.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0201par0449	You sold all the factories of the old Turkey, but you didn't plant factories from the old Turkey.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0195par0450	Our students couldn't find books that would open schools in a week, let alone dream of tablet computers, smart boards in ancient Turkey.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0202par0451	Students can't find dorms, dorms!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0201par0452	You studied in old Turkey, graduated.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0195par0453	Our students waited for days on stationery lines. In ancient Turkey, our young people used to work out in mud; in mud, in soil. Synthetic fields, Olympic pools, modern youth centers were imagined in ancient Turkey. The EC PARTI, which has started a repair and restoration process in every area since 2002 and solved our country's chronicized problems one by one, did not drop the nation's trust with the help of the nation, e-mutations, 367 crises, closing cases, the Trips, and finally 17-25 December coup attempts, but the EC PARTI has not dropped the nation's trust again with the help and the help of God.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0203par0457	Don't confuse God!
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0195par0458	For twelve years, our nation has enjoyed the pleasure of feeling in power, precious MPs, enjoying the joy of services performed throughout our 81 provinces, proud to see Turkey signing giant projects that would make the world jealous. Mr. President, we see that there is a road map of our republic on the 100th anniversary of our republic, which will bring the pride of the 62nd Government Programme, which the previous AK PARTY governments have brought to our nation. To raise the standards of our democracy with the understanding of advanced democracy, to expand fundamental rights and freedoms, to end all custody, to fully establish judicial independence and neutrality, to threaten our national security, to bring down the state, to bring down its structure, to fight criminal formations in the attempt against the great Turkey. Let the state live. Let the state live. With its understanding of education, health, health, social security, culture, human development, which aims to achieve human development, free from living spaces and environmental precision, a model of international success, further improving economic policies to ensure the completion of massive projects and the development of the strong economy of our country and the goal of a strong and respected, advanced democracy in foreign policy, has achieved the maximum security of basic rights and freedoms, free from terrorism, and freedom, and a greater example of unity and unity, and a more democratic leadership, and a map of Turkey today. Governments have come and gone in our Republic of Turkey, times have passed, but few have left a mark. Right now, we're not on the route of a passing time or a passing government; we're on one of Turkey's jump points, when history has been established, and the custody nodes have been solved, and democracy has been deepened and flourished. By means of the High Parliament, the Saint nation carries out its judgment, and the will no longer gains power from bureaucracy or virtual power centers. Ahmet Davutoglu, we experience the excitement of the days when we will breathe the visible success of the government and the vision of reform. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these feelings and thoughts, the 62nd government wishes the Program to be blessed; the Prime Minister wishes our ministers well; and I say, "God bless them and help them." I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-09-04sit02spe0204par0466	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. Members of parliament, talks on the Council of Ministers programme have been completed. The vote of confidence must be held one day after the end of the talks, according to Articles 124 of the Constitution, the 110th, and the 124th Amendment. According to this, the vote of confidence will be held on Saturday (September 6, 2014). According to the decision taken, it is 12 p.m. on Saturday (September 06th 2014) to vote on the Council of Ministers established by Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
