tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 130th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Silver House MP Kemalettin Aydın, who wants to talk about the location of the muhtars in democracies. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have taken an off-the-book promise on the location of our chiefs in democracies, duty and responsibilities. Democracy is the way the people govern themselves, and the people choose to rule themselves. Mukhtarism is the most fundamental and important cornerstones of democracy. He's the first representative of the nation in the local area, and he's the first person in his field to come out of the chest by democracy. The Mukhtars carry out an original and noble mission in our neighborhoods and villages in Anatolia. Many of the problems of our village and neighborhoods are delivered to the government by spending money, stamps, cars, and time on their own pockets. As they solve their problems, they try to solve them in private administration, in State Water Affairs, in Tapu Kadastro, or at many points, without any hardship, without any hardship, because of their responsibilities to the nation and because of the people tasking them in the polls. In 12 years, our Mukhtars have exceeded their problems significantly in private administrations, the Service to Villages Association, in terms of local governance, making efforts to solve all the problems of villages by sitting at the same table as the state's public administration. Again, there has been a slight improvement in their salaries in order to meet the costs they spent on their way to and from about 100 euros to 870 euros in 2002, which seems to be an important problem for the head of the state. With the heads of our province, and with the leaders of the nation, and with the leaders of this nation, who served as their chief political men each year, the problems of their villages and neighborhoods have been discussed, and they have been treated with an honorable welcome at the gate of the state. On the anniversary of the coup on May 27, 1960, our newly elected leaders were welcomed to Ankara, and the Turkish Grand National Assembly in Ankara has a unconditional government. We shared with them that they were part of this mission. We have also, of course, shown them the beautiful parts of Ankara, the Çankaya, the Memorial, the Haci Bayram, and other areas. By the way, during February 28th, he could not even be a leader. We are in a process where both the mindset demeaning the office of the president and the leaders of our very beloved muhtars, who have completed the term of the thousand-year process, who, as the man of the nation, will have the upper office of the nation and the most important chief of the presidency, will have their own leaders, and we are in a process that will have the power of the nation's people and the leaders of our own. So that our chiefs, as representatives of the nation during the 10th of August, will do their part in the presidential process, which was the last poll as the first representatives out of the polls.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0003par0016	What does the chiefs have to do with the presidency now?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0002par0017	...and he believes that they will choose the powerful leader to lead them, and as the 313 white-hearted and white-headed MPs who have come here as representatives of the nation in this assembly hall, I desire the nation's men to know that we are with him and that we are behind them in the service of the nation, and that I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0004par0019	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0003par0020	Let's get the mayor's social security premiums out of the House. Come on, bring it!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0002par0021	Be the chief first! Take your pick of the muhtar first!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0003par0022	Let the mayor's social security premiums be covered by the state budget. Let's go, let's go! Come on, bring it! You talk to the Mukhtars, you see the polling warehouse.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0005par0023	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0003par0024	Bring in the social security premiums from the state budget.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0005par0025	Everyone listens to Mr. Pine. Mr. Pine, are you finished?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0003par0027	My respects, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0005par0028	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Manisa MP Sakine Özί, who asked for the producers' demands during the grape season. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0006par0033	Mr. President, I have been promised to deliver the expectations of our producers, exporters, with the opening of the grape season, to address the problems in the right time and time. I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the harvest season of the Sultaniye nuclear-free raisin, who heads important agricultural products our country exports for our Manisa. Despite the recent years, the food supply is also in the markets, but the farmer's real income is in the harvest of raisins. Unfortunately, in recent years, our gardeners have been unable to smile at the sale of their grapes, which they have worked so hard to produce. In our country, which has 45 per cent of the world's nuclear-free export of raisins, assuming we export about 90 per cent of the raisins we produce, it's clear that the chain that extends from manufacturer to exporter and Tarhish to consumers in the country and the world's stock markets should be strengthened and strengthened by government support, without crushing the small manufacturer, speculation and monopolitic understanding. While our small manufacturer continues to have problems with electricity shortages in agricultural irrigation, such as floods, bank loans, TARSIM, Turkish-labeled Iranian grapes, and collecting money from companies after the delivery of goods, the lack of government support, the lack of stock boards, the possible games that are played on the Rekolte, preventing a fair price in the grape market. The months after privatisation of the agricultural irrigation electricity bills, which were collected as a term, have completely ruined our grape grower, just like our farmer, who has no monthly income. The farmer, who has yet to collect his product in the vineyard, faced debt at his door, either seeking interest or leaving his product desperate to disappear because of the power cut off. I remind you that the electricity that has been cut by unpaid bills has driven our laces deeper and deeper into debt, and I demand that their billing period extend from six months to six months, as it used to be. Congressmans, last year was a disaster, our farmer was a victim, and even though there were no grapes on the market, our producer, who had the worst season in history, closed the year with damage. Our manufacturer was victimised by market speculatively speculating on different recollateral estimates of the Union and the rooms. A few firms that hold the grape market with their recollateral projections raised the farmer's grapes with a thousand and a thousand years of hard labor and hope at a price of $2.80, when it should be worth more than $5, at the expense of its hands. The farmer who resisted it, who said, "I will not sell it under his property." Although the new season began, he could not sell it, he still had to keep it in his hand. Our farmer is watching the situation this year, fearing that it will become the same. Our Manisa-based manufacturer loses confidence in the market after the price dropped during the release of the repulsion period, demanding the government's intervention to repair losses through regulatory and controlling. Dear lawmakers, I, who have announced to the newspapers last year, after this moment of raising grape prices, and who have sent me a message, if it falls below $3.5, I will receive it. I address the lawmakers of Manisa, who are walking around like liars, who say: Manisa farmer does not ask you for charity, he wants you to pay for his wages. The Manisa farmer asks you for the cheap diesel you give to the shipowners, asking for fertilizer, as in other countries. The Manisa farmer is loyal to his debt; he doesn't want his electricity cut because he can't sell his product, he doesn't want his electricity cut at the end of the month because he's a victim of electrical privatisation because we don't know what conditions you're giving it to him because he can't pay for it. AKP's Manisa lawmakers want you to take care of their problems, and in the dry years, they want support for the construction of the Yeşilkavak dam so that their ties can be institutionalised. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0007par0043	Thank you, Mr. Oz. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0008par0048	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak off the record about the problems in prisons. I salute the General Assembly. In terms of human health, the negatives of prison buildings, the risks, the ability of prisoners and prisoners to meet their families, the unique problems of heavily ill prisoners, the children who were forced to stay in prisons with women and women prisoners, as well as the individual and other members of parliament who had the opportunity to speak as often as possible from this bench, and the suggestions of solutions. In addition, we have submitted several motions for questions regarding the state of the prisons and the poor conditions of the prisoners and the opening of parliamentary research. Sadly, almost none of these have been considered worthy of the government and the problems have not been resolved. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to continue my speech by drawing your attention to an ongoing problem at Midyat Open Prison. In the Midyat district of Mardin province, the conditions of the prisoners and prisoners are even heavier due to the fact that Midyat Municipality's waste collection area is a very close place to the prison. Once in a while, the stench of smoke from the flaming piles of garbage enters the prison, combined with the overwhelming weather of the summer months, disturbs the prisoners on a large scale. It is noted that prisoners and prisoners suffer severe respiratory problems, can't sleep through the smell at night, and visitors who visit prisoners are also affected by smell and smoke. Precious lawmakers are at grave risk, as are some 250 prisoners in Midyat Open Prison, who are mainly affected by the fumes and smoke from garbage piles in the summer months, as well as the patients in the state hospital and the citizens living in various neighborhoods of the city. When the fire broke out in the piles of garbage, it was reported that this fire had not been interfered with and that the burning situation continued for days. It is also known that several prisoners and prisoners affected by smell and smoke were taken to the state hospital during their garbage burning. It is also among the information that prisoners and prisoners in prison have received, despite petitioning authorities to remove the garbage found around the prison. Dear lawmakers, experts have always said that by means of garbage and solid waste, 200 types of infectious diseases have been transported and spread, and that dumpsters are a serious threat to human health. Containers will be in contact with carbon monoxide gas due to the dissolution of the garbage and chronic diseases may arise. Again, according to experts, insects and animals that breed in garbage can cause malaria, diarrhea, and food poisoning. Besides, if there's chemical waste in the garbage, there's no way that it can cause cancer on people in prison over a long period of time. Dear MPs, Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe. The natural result of this membership is the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as the Convention on Avoiding Torture and Humanity or Honorary Punishment. Under this contract, the main duty of the committee is to observe whether the people who are deprived of their freedom are held in proper conditions in prisons. Turkey has basic obligations according to international contracts signed in this sense. Dear lawmakers, the positive obligation of the state is twice as high as the citizen outside in order for inmates to benefit from a basic right to health, such as the right to health. For it is not enough for the prisoner's own will to attain this right. In a sense, the prison is entrusted to the state. The state is responsible for his body health and body integrity in the first degree. The state cannot hide behind any excuse or reason for the prison's health. From here to Midyat City Hall, I am immediately obliged to inform the public that the garbage dump should be removed from the prison, that it should take the necessary precautions for human health. I believe that from now on, Midyat City Hall will show the sensitivity necessary. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all again, thank you, be there.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0009par0058	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The nature of the investigations and prosecutions launched against university students, the need to open Parliamental investigations as required by Article 104 and 105 of the 98th and Civil Code to determine the victims caused by these investigations and prosecutions and to determine the measures taken on this matter. 24/9/2012 1) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Lug]] [[Mwah.]] [[Pain]] [[Şırnak]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Bingöl]] [[Adana]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] 16) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Van]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] Over the past three years, detentions and arrests that have continued in intensity, which will not be searching for coup times, are a precedent in the history of the republic due to the rareness of its spouse. The unfair and antidemocratic intervention of this political-guided and forced intervention is also a threat to social peace as well. The impact of these operations targeting all opposition parts of society, especially on children and young people that we consider to be our future, could have devastating consequences far above our projections. In particular, the long and vague process of "composy theory" and its claims, which have gained the quality, not only have they separated students from their education lives, but they have created an alarming environment for the purpose of reducing demands. Youths with the future of society have been subjected to criticism of political structures and methods on the basis of democracy, detention and arrests. The punishment of ideas that remain within the legal and conscientious limits of original, original, intellectual freedom, which, as they claim, has brought society to question the phenomenon of the state of law. Thus, the response to antidemocratic practices for young people who are trying to address student and citizen problems with all efforts of peace and goodwill has reached national dimensions. The fact that implementing the tools of intervention to the unarmed and non-aggressive critics they encounter is not to be ignored by the fact that there is no solution to the problems. The carelessness of these practices is damaging the essence of social life and creating a society that has worn out democratic reflexes. The fact that university students, one of the most dynamic parts of society, are dragged to an apolitical point, superficializes the functioning of democracy. Democracy develops in parallel with priority, with interest in political life. Trying to stop this development with criminal measures will also mean that society will be dragged to an unwanted location. Given all these reasons, the need for the legislature to take steps at this point is revealed. The nature of the investigations and prosecutions launched against university students is necessary to open a parliamentary study to determine the victims caused by these investigations and prosecutions and to determine the measures taken on this issue. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey is experiencing political blockages as a result of the wrong policies of the AKP government in domestic politics and foreign politics. The AKP produces military and security-axis policies to address political obstructions. As a result of these policies, Turkey's economy is going through a difficult time. The AKP government has launched a raise fair to finance its military and security-axis policies. The hikes pose serious problems at the level of citizens' economic preferences and opportunities. In order to determine the causes of the increase fair started by the AKP government, I would like to ask that Parliament investigate the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, TBM Institution in order to find ways to protect citizens from the price of the increase. The AKP's neoliberal understanding of economics has increased the difference between income groups in society. In a manner of speaking, the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer. In this regard, the social state principle has begun to wear down under neoliberal policies. The AKP's idea of a market based on a hot money introductory and foreign investment is a major dilemma when combined with the political conjunctural. During the privatisation process, the economic crisis in the United States, which began in the United States and across the world, the negative impact of political instability that began with the Arab Spring, caused the AKP to block the parameters it considers fundamentally based on the economic imagination. In addition, the AKP government, which has implemented security-axis policies in surrendering to the reflexive approaches of previous rulings in the approach to the Kurdish issue, which has been a 100-year issue and has evolved in the last 30 years of conflict, is spending more and more on war, weapons, and death every day due to the conflicting process. Both problems on the global scale and security policies in domestic policy have led to a rapid increase in budget deficits. In Turkey, the AKP, which has policies that deepen the unsolvability of all internal dynamic problems, especially the Kurdish problem, and is bankrupt in all accounts in the Middle East, is resorting to military means, insisting on war and violence. As a result of the financing of military methods, the budget is open, and the raises are being imposed on the public to tolerate the budget deficit. For the financing of the war, the government has recently raised by the government at midnight in many consumption pens. These raises cover a wide scale from fuel to deed. The total spending in defence and security during the January-June 2012 period was $732.7m, while the total spending in July 2012 and August 2012 alone was $846m. The assessment of the wrong policies should not only be based on the pens in the budget, but also on middle-term political policies and neoliberal economic policies that lead to budget deficits. Another point of interest in recent increases is that it contains steps to increase the difference between the existence of the poor and the poor in society. Looking at automotive increases, automotive models that are generally preferred by higher-income households have been exempted from a raise, while automotive models that the lower and middle-income households can buy. We move from all of this to open a Parliamentary study to determine the problems that the AKP's macroeconomic policies and political policies have created for the public, to determine the political, economic and social problems created by the budget of war under covert grants, and to find the necessary solutions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Due to the problems of hearing disabled students and the lack of schooling, and the lack of adequate quotas for deaf teachers, I would like to ask that the Constitution be opened under Parliamentary research on Articles 98th, Article 104th and 105th. [[Diyarbakır]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Like all over the world, in our country, special educational services are now headed towards integration training rather than segregation training. In this direction, the view of the disabled now being educated in the same environments with their peers weighs heavily. Deaf students are now required to be directed to collusion training in normal elementary schools rather than elementary schools with deaf hearing. For deaf children, it is necessary to be appointed deaf teachers in each elementary school to open private lower classes, boiling classes and kindergartens, to ensure that they receive deaf qualified education in these open classrooms. In this way, deaf children will not be directed to sign language in schools open only for deaf people, nor will they be allowed to stay in social life in schools which have become a form of camping. This could be a new employment area for deaf teachers with the boiling classes that will be opened, and it would have raised the number of appointments that are around 30 a year to a more reasonable level. In addition, these boiling classes and these disabled students will speed up their development by training in the same environments within certain hours with other students. It'll keep them from being isolated from society. Another way for our deaf teachers to resolve this quota problem is for these teachers to be appointed teachers as teachers based on their credits as special educators. Such matters should be carefully discussed and discussed as to what can be done to solve the problems of both our students and teachers. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, there is a motion for a parliamentary investigation. The motion has been printed and distributed to the members today. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under the grounds below, under Article 107 of the Constitution's 100th and Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we propose and propose the opening of a parliamentary investigation into Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Muharrem İnce Engin Altay Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ali Demirçalı Turgay Develi Osman Faruk Logoğlu Hopeful Ramis Topal S. Sanmar Ayata Sinan Aydın Aygün Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan İzzet Çetin Mehmet Emrehan Halici Arif Bulut Osman Captain Yenturay Sapan Ensar Öğüt Osman Aydın Metin Lütfi Baydar Haluk Ahmet Silver Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya Ramazan Kerim Özkan İlhan Demiröz Kemal Ekinci Sena Kaleli Turhan Tayan Ali Sarıbaş Mustafa Serdar Soydan Adnan Keskin Kemal Millendereli Muharrem Ilk Mehmet Şeker Denizhattin Karaahmetoğlu Hasan Akgöl Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Aydın Ajan Ayadın Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu Haluk Eyidoğan Osman Taney Öurturk Sadef Little Kadir Gökmen Öğüt Ali Özgündün Ihsan Özkes Shafak Pavey Bihlun Tamayligil Binnaz Earth Erdogan Earth Faik Tunay Musa Pine Hülya Güven Mustafa Moroglu Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Şevki Kulkuloğlu Sakine Öz Tolga Çangar Nurettin Demir Doğan Şaş İdris Yıldız Ahmet İhsan Kalkavan Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu A. General Legal Evaluation In the beginning chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, the absolute rule of the people's will is that sovereignty belongs to the Turkish Nation unconditionally, and that no individual or organization authorized to use it on behalf of the nation will be able to enter the free democracy and the established legal order in this Constitution; The distinction of powers does not refer to the ranking of superiority among the state's bodies, but is the use of certain state powers and duties, and is limited to the use of and co-operation and is included in matters of the Constitution and the laws, and the principle of law is considered to be the basis of the republic. According to the established decisions of the Constitutional Court, the state of law, action and procedures are an open state based on human rights, protecting and strengthening these rights and freedoms, establishing a fair legal order in every area, maintaining it, maintaining it, avoiding non-constitutional conditions and attitudes, which considers itself bound by the superior institutions of the law to the judiciary. In the first joke of Article 10 of the Constitution, it also states that everyone is equal before the law, regardless of language, race, color, gender, political thought, philosophy, religion, sect, and so on; in the fourth joke, there is the right to a just trial of no one, family, society and social class; and in the first part of Article 36, the principle of equality is a requirement for each person to be tried as a prosecutor or a defendant, as a matter of legitimate means and by means of benefit. In addition to these provisions, the fourth article of Article 38 of the Constitution included the purity of innocence. When the following rules are considered together, the Republic of Turkey is a state of law, and everyone has the right to a fair trial, and until the verdict of conviction is finalized, the accused will be considered innocent, and the accused will not be privileged to the alleged criminal and cannot be stopped from being judged, regardless of his position. On the other hand, in Article 71 of the Constitution, it is mandatory for public officials to present property notifications along with those involved in the legislative and executive bodies. According to the third joke of Article 112 of the Constitution, the prime minister is obliged to observe and take corrective measures to ensure that the ministers' duties are carried out in accordance with the Constitution and by law. On the 100th article of the Constitution, prime minister or ministers, the parliamentary investigation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, an important control mechanism, and 107-113 articles of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Institution, under the investigation of Parliament. The terms of the motion to open a parliamentary investigation in Article 107 of the Turkish Parliament's Council of Ministers; ίa) About the prime minister or the minister who was in office or who had been discharged, B) The motion includes the signature of at least 1 tenth of the full number of members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, C) Emphasizing that the criminal act was committed in the line of duty and in the line of duty, and that the clause was stated as a violation of what law and order, based on the basis of the action. Ex-Internal Affairs, Environment and Urbanism organised by İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office for bribery and corruption investigations launched on 17 December 2013 and 25 December 2013, and it has been decided to establish a parliamentary investigative commission for the ministers mentioned in Turkey's Grand National Assembly for various criminal claims against the Minister of Economy and the European Union. However, any criminal complaint against Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, whose claims are as serious as the ministers, has not reached the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the other hand, given the pressure and direction of the executive body on the judiciary, there is no possibility that a criminal complaint against the Prime Minister will be filed by the republic's prosecutors in the following period due to the allegations. In accordance with Article 160 of the Penal Code (1), the impression that a crime has been committed by the republic's attorney is sufficient to open an investigation. According to the Constitution and the TBM Administration, the parliamentary investigative commission is a form of prosecution because of its mission. For the specified reasons, it has been deemed necessary to organise this motion, since the allegations against Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan contain serious findings beyond the impression of a crime. 1) On 17 December 2013, the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office issued arrest warrants for some suspects, including the two ministers in charge, including their children. On December 25, 2014, judicial decisions have been made regarding the arrests, search and arrests of several businessmen and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's son, Necmettin Bilal Erdogan, who was among them, but these decisions have not been implemented by İstanbul Security Directorate. Meanwhile, in the process, the report, which states "Prime Minister" on April 18, 2013 and in the distribution section of the National Intelligence Service, has been sent to the public, and the content of the report has not been denied by the Prime Minister or MIT. The three-page report sums up "TC citizen Reza Sarraf, an Iranian citizen who trades in gold-dows in Closed Market, was in close contact with Economy Minister Zafer Çağan and Interior Minister Muammer Guler, while some attempts were made to admit his brother Mohammed Sarraf to TC citizenship, including the fact that the seizure of 1.5 tonnes of customs fugitives was blocked by Minister Zafer Çağan, in the event that these inappropriate relations could be used against the government." It is not possible that this report, which contains very serious allegations and concrete data regarding the two ministers, and written in the distribution department, should not be sent to the Prime Minister. However, the content of the investigation of the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office's Office, which was published about eight months ago, has the exact facts of the 18 April 2013 MIT Report. Thus, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan did not carry out his duties by deliberately and willingly avoiding the criminal relations of former ministers who had been ordered to investigate the Parliament, although he was well aware of the reflection of the December 17th investigation much earlier. Because according to public information and documents, Reza Sarraf is in a relationship with the Prime Minister, and former ministers are known by the Prime Minister. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's action constitutes the elements of two separate crimes according to the characterization of his criminal status. These are the charges of "absorption" by TCK, described in Article 257, which resulted in unjust benefit and public harm by keeping the ministers in office, despite the Prime Minister's MIT report, which was his duty and mandate to ask the president to dismiss the ministers according to Article 104. B) Again, as Prime Minister, it is a "crime not to report the crime as part of TK's 279/1 clause, but not to inform authorities of the actions of the ministers who committed the crime during the mission. 2) The prime minister described "the gang" and "the parallel state" of the people who carried out the investigation the day after the December 17th operation cost public attention and said the structure would be revealed. On December 19th, İstanbul Police Commissioner was dismissed and the new director, Hiti Altınok, arrived in Istanbul on his plane with the Prime Minister, and took office on the same day. A dismissal has been carried out at İstanbul Security Directorate starting on December 18th. After being sent to İstanbul Security Directorate on December 25, 2013, a new detention, search and arrest warrants, including Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's son, Najmettin Bilal Erdogan, were sent to be executed by İstanbul Security Directorate officials, but these decisions were not carried out, and were later dismissed as a result of a change of duty at İstanbul Public Prosecutor's Office. There is no doubt that the Prime Minister's decision to ensure that his son and close businessmen are saved from the criminal investigation. That's why the evidence has been blacked out and the data that may be a criminal element has been eliminated. The Prime Minister is the head of the executive body and has made attempts to directly influence the investigation in the sequence of events. He has publicly charged the judicial and law enforcement officers involved in the investigation and has created the necessary mechanism for them to be removed from the investigation. Of course, it is the principle of the state of law that the judicial and law enforcement officers who perform an illegal act during the act of public service should answer in front of the law. However, putting aside the legislation on this issue, it is not legally acceptable to attempt to carry out attempts that directly affect the investigation and to take a clear stand in order not to enforce the judge's decisions, finally to be on the side during the judicial process. The cover-up of the corruption investigation and attempts to bypass the current legal system for this purpose are an undisputed offense. Thus, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has committed the "compensation of the guilty" offenses defined in Article 283, which aims to favour those who serve as judges in accordance with Article 277 of the Turkish Penal Code, and to favour those who act as suspects with his son. Erdogan Bayraktar, a former minister, told NTV TV on December 26, 2013 that he had resigned after he had stated that he had done most of the zoning plans in the investigation file, which had been approved in accordance with the law, by order of the Prime Minister," and said, "But I believe that Mr. Prime Minister should resign to comfort this nation and the country." A parliamentary investigation has been launched regarding Erdogan Bayraktar, as well as Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who ordered the former minister to participate in the charge of trafficking in influence and abuse of office, according to the actions of the Turkish Penal Code in accordance with 255 (intensity trade) and 257 (designation abuse). Article 3 of Article 24 of Turkish Penal Code No. 5237 states: "The order that constitutes a crime cannot be carried out under any circumstances. Otherwise, the person who executes and gives orders will be responsible," and the first joke of Article 38 of the same law is "The person who compels others to commit a crime will be punished for the crime." 4) On February 25, 2014, phone calls between Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his son Necmettin Bilal Erdogan fell. Although a widespread view of the voices in these phone calls came from the Prime Minister and his son, the talks were denied because they were edited by the ruling party. However, in response to allegations that these talks have been edited, public requests have been ignored to examine these talks with the ability of neutral expert experts. However, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said at the Justice and Development Party's group meeting on April 22, 2014, "They have, I've always said, they have blackmail tapes in the squares. From the top of this state to the bottom. How many times have I told you? The president's blackmail tape is in them, and so was I. And the Chief of Staff. But what I'm saying is, if it's about me, I say come out, explain it, or if you don't explain it, explain it. Of course, they haven't found what they're looking for about me, and they won't. They've only been able to negotiate with my ministers, or they've been able to give my wife and child what I've done; they can't, they won't. Because they don't have the honor. As I said in my speech recently, not even the enemy would be such an asshole, but they did so. He accepted the talks he had made with his son in the above. In its article 03/06/2014, meanwhile, the presidency of the TBM has acknowledged the truthfulness of these talks, stressing that the Constitution cannot be released in the face of communications and the principles of privacy. There are some issues that stand out as a result of the examination of all phone calls. The amount of money found in the Prime Minister's son's house belongs to the Prime Minister, which is not consistent with the Prime Minister's usual income; Besides this money, the Prime Minister's other houses in Istanbul, his children, his son-in-law, and his brother also have a large amount of money hidden; Following the Prime Minister's instructions, the money was sent to Faruk, Mehmet Gür, Tunç, Ahmet Çarik, Faik Ik and Mehmet, and ordered the Prime Minister to "zero" to transfer all the money found in the dwellings; On December 17, 2013, at 3:39 p.m., the money was expected to be dark for all transport, even though the evacuations took hours; On the same day, at 11:15 p.m., at about 15 hours after the first meeting, the amount of money mentioned in the house was 30m euros, the money could not be melted, for example, 10m euros, due to too much space in the person called Bronze; Even the next day, the money was carried out, and the Prime Minister was advised not to talk on the phone often; I can see that. First of all, why does a Prime Minister feel the need to move money that he and his relatives have been promised, anxiously, due to an investigation into some of his children? Why would a Prime Minister try to hide money in a dwelling when banks are still there? Why would a Prime Minister rush a multimillion-euro transfer to businessmen? Why would a Prime Minister send his daughter to Istanbul in a hurry to evacuate the money according to his instructions? The media reports indicate that the money that was carried at that time was over $1 billion in U.S. dollars. In fact, it has been suggested that there are video recordings of this evacuation process. It is not possible to explain such amounts of money with the usual income of the Prime Minister. On the other hand, the link between the former ministers and the Iranian-born Turkish citizen Reza Sarraf and the Prime Minister appears to be inhospitable. As a matter of fact, the Prime Minister, Reza Sarraf, says he knows Sarraf as a charitable businessman. Riza Sarraf said that he was working to export more in order to cover the current deficit because he promised the Prime Minister in a phone call with Halkbank's former General Manager Süleyman Aslan. He also received money from Riza Sarraf's courier to TuRGEV, where the Prime Minister's children were headed. Zafer was in the press with footage and phone transcripts of the Caspan's wire transfer. Established in 1996, the ISEGAV (Istanbul Education and Youth Service Foundation) changed its name to TURGAV in 2012, with the Prime Minister's children on the trustee's delegation. A donation from an offshore organization called Royal Protocol is remarkable for both the amount and the sender. Because the name of this company, which sent 99,999,990 dollars on April 26, 2012 under the name of a donation, brings to mind a suspicious money flow that started with Royal, the name of the business in Turkey of Riza Sarraf. At this point, former minister M. There is no difference between Zafer Calashan and the Prime Minister. When all of this evidence is considered together, the result of the illegal accession of money, which is not included in Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's Admissions, is spontaneously revealed. This is the fourth of the Law on Anti-Biharm and Corruption, dated 19,1990, and dated 3628. "The increase in spending, which has not been proven in accordance with the law or in accordance with general morality, or incompatible with the interests of the person's social life, is considered unfair property in the implementation of this law." In Article 13, it was said: "If the law does not require a more severe sentence, it will be fined from three years to five years in prison and from five million dollars to ten million liras. The same will be the recompense of him who steals and conceals. Under the rule, he is charged with unlawful possession of property and unlawful possession of property. As Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's actions in this department must be decided to remain hidden in the Admissions of Property 3628, due to the fact that he has not been able to reset the money he's been hiding in another address with his usual income, and has been illegally obtained on the Prime Minister's website due to the fact that he has not been able to obtain it on the basis of illegal property notifications, due to the fact that he has obtained it, due to the fact that he has obtained it illegally, in order to remain hidden in the manner of possession of property. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's verbs for his duties and duties; 279 of Turkish Penal Code 5237 (object abuse), 287 (instruction of the public official), 283 (insulting the accused), 255 (criminal trade) and Articles of Law 3628 (insulting property, smuggling, concealment), which are defined in accordance with the crimes described in Articles 4 (indeed property, kidnapping, concealment and concealment). In Article 100 of the Constitution, the Parliament shall discuss this request within a month at the latest and conclude it. Under the decision, the recommendation of the Council of Ministers for the meeting of the parliamentary inquiry will then be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly. Members of parliament, according to the decision, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the agenda "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the 3rd ranked President of the Turkish Institutes of Health and the Commission for Health and Social Affairs. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We now resume our talks with the Business Law, which is ranked in the fourth place, as well as 108 legal proposals and Plans and Budget Commission Reports in the same capacity as the Charter's Charter for Changes in Some Laws and Laws. 4-Current of Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; Ankara MP Izzet Çetin; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party Deputy MP Oktay Köçal; İstanbul MP Sena Kallıtı's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Balukı; İstanbul MP İzken's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Çeçı; Ankara MP İzket Balukı's Party's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Democratic Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP İdıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK) and İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK). Number: 639) [[x]] Commission? Here. Government? Here. Article 82, which was adopted in the fourth part of the bill, which was considered the main law under Article 91 of the 126 (Land of the 126) Union of 25/07/2014, now we will discuss Article 83. There are three motions on Article 83: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article be added "by the end of the second month," which follows the date of which the law has been published. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Fatma Nur Serter Haydar Akar Chooses Vahaap Congressmans, since the motion that I shall now read has passed 500 words, the summary of the motion will be read under Article 87 of the Civil Code, and the entire motion will be added to the report. [[x]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 83 be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mesut Dedeoğlu Emin Haluk Ayhan Özcan Yeniçeri Mustafa Kalaycı MADDE 83- (1) By the Ministry of Customs and Trade agencies 31/5/2014 (including this date), the customs Act No. 27/10/1999 was established as of the date of which the law was issued, and the customs duties imposed under Article 6183, which were followed according to Laws 6183, administrative fines, interest, delay interest and delay increases. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 83 of the Common Law Bill 639 be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0010par0337	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0009par0338	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0011par0339	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0009par0340	On the motion, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0012par0343	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this clause contains the amnesty and configuration of customs-related taxes. Now, let me ask you, what customs tax are you talking about? What customs gate are you talking about? The borders of Kevgire-turned Turkey are the borders of Kevgire-turned Turkey; the Al-Nusra, Al-Qaeda, ISISi enter, enter, enter, enter without tax, enter as he pleases. And now, 20km beyond the Habur Border Trade Gate, Zaho's largest trade gate in the world, ISIS gangs enter the Sincar area, an ancient name, the Shengal region, massacres our citizens, hundreds of thousands of people are being detained; the Assyrians who live there, the Turks living there, are being slaughtered, killed. In the Baghdad Parliament, the cries of an Ezidi woman are echoing all over the world, and it is said there are 70 babies dying of thirst in one day. Note that there is no sound from our State Department in the face of this landscape at the Turkish border, where only babies die of thirst, people who die of hunger, people who are reduced to 50 degrees [50 degrees].
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0013par0345	There's no Home Secretary.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0012par0346	...our Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights is silent, our Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights is asleep. The Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Commission is only interested in Gaza, which we've put our sensitivity to Gaza from the very beginning, no one's made a sound. Well, I'm asking you, for God's sake, which customs door? From Habur, to Iran, from Iran to Antioch... which is it? We know there's airport customs doors coming in on planes. We know the customs from the sea. That's what we wanted in the Commission, we said. Friends, can you reflect on the appearance of this? Let's see how many tax fines there are in Turkey, how many unpaid customs, how many numbers, even if you show us a picture of this, let's see what that means. Now, while a country that has not been able to protect its customs doors has been brought to Parliament by customs, while crimes against humanity have been committed against humanity, while the Turkish Penal Code has been committed -- in the Geneva Convention, where Turkey is on its side -- there is a human drama going on, and if you want to know the truth, we would also like the women here to hear from the women who have been attacked by the children and women who have been massacred in the attacks in Kobani. I'm wondering, I mean, are those who don't sound like IND fans, supporters, whether they're in this policy, whether they're in this scam, whether they're in this massacre? You can stand by, but the Kurdish people are no longer in the Middle East. Behold, the YPG went into Sincar, the city of Rabia of Rojava, and went into Shengal, and the HPG went out of Kandil, and the forces of Pesmerge entered into it. Of course, every people will protect themselves. What's it to you, women's lawmakers, in terms of women's rights, to be taken as concubines, to the people who so fiercely destroy mosques, who bomb ancient places of worship, who commit so much violence? Shouldn't the women's deputies in the parliament say that as they voiced a drama in a country in Africa, and shouldn't they condemn it? But it turns out, in such cases, there's no other way for the people to use their right to resist and neutralize these attackers. That's what the Middle East goes for. On all the borders of Turkey, 20 kilometers from Habur, 30 kilometers from Dohuk, there is a drama near us. We're condemning from here.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0014par0350	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0012par0351	I'd like to say that there should be a statement of condemnation from the Turkish Parliament as all countries around the world voice on this issue.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0014par0353	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0015par0357	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0014par0358	There's enough for a meeting...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0015par0359	Roll call...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0014par0360	It's a roll call, so it's the same thing.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0015par0361	It's not the same.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0014par0362	It's coming to the same thing.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0015par0363	Let's not argue, anyway, we want roll call.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0014par0364	Mr. Akar, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Selayer, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Taylan, Mr. Akova, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Trust, Mr. Gent, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Coach, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Captain, Mr. Logoglu, Mr. Keskin. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0014par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 130th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 83, there was not enough attendance in the roll call before the vote of Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan and his friends. Now I'm going to do the roll call again. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We only have one compass, Mr. Gürsoy Erol, and he's here, I wanted to point that out.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0016par0009	When it comes to registered fraud... Write these down. I will now submit the motion to your votes. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We continue the talks of Bill 639. The Commission and the Government are here. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly MADDE 83- (1) By the Ministry of Customs and Trade agencies 31/5/2014 (including this date), the customs Act No. 27/10/1999 and other relevant laws have been established as of the date of which the law has been issued, followed by customs duties, administrative fines, interest, delay interest and delay increases. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0017par0023	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0018par0024	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0017par0025	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0019par0026	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0017par0027	Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan will speak on the motion. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0020par0031	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have been promised to present the views of the National Party for Action Party on the amendment to Article 83 of the proposed bill. I salute the grand jury. Basically, there are regulations for the collection of public debt under Law 4458, which is born under other relevant laws, followed by 6183. If the clause of the bill is really good, what's a better offer for the bidding we're offering, what's more? To help them... but the foreign trade thing is really troubled Turkey. There's no such thing as customs. Since the AKP came to power, we've imported $2 trillion; we exported $1.3 trillion; the difference is the foreign trade deficit. When you say it's a business deficit, the problem has been 355 billion dollars since the AKP came to power. In fact, it would be about $400 billion if it were not for the 15 per cent contribution of Reza Zarrab. They gave the Minister a question motion, but it didn't clear up. Whether Reza really has such a contribution or not, it's really important. I wonder if you'll be giving a medal to a man who's actually doing so much good to Turkey.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0021par0033	Diplomatic passport...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0020par0034	Now, it's a real pain in the ass. The Turkish Republic will not be able to close as much as 15 per cent of its current deficit without Reza Bey. What do you say when an official comes out of the government? What did you do? Or you did right, thank you. He doesn't have the courage to say thank you. Such a disgrace, there's no way that could have happened. Now, imports are an advantage, that's what the AKP wants. The industry is already devastated; the national income has fallen from 25 to 30 per cent to under 20. The share of the service sector is increasing in national revenues. There's a big problem here. Justice and Development Party (AKP)'s officials are on foreign loans... and even Vice Prime Minister's Deputy Prime Minister, AVM in the city, luxury housing, not if you do these things. No private sector investments until 2015. The economy's fine, but what's with the stowaway, bro? Where are you trying to collect all this? Mr. Numan is saying the same thing as the Deputy Prime Minister. Either these are the minister of another government or the vice president of another ruling party, and this is another country whose economy is run. When you spoke, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, there was a lot of talk about the financial rule, and I'm still asking, there's no answer. Now, what happens to no imports? Look, the terrorist started exporting during the AKP period in Turkey. That's not enough. Where's he going? The PKK is sending terrorists to the other side against ISIS. The government has no chance of interfering. Between the two friends of the government and the PKK - what did the government become so troubled about? He's in a phase. It's a real pain in the ass. Another thing is: wherever you look, if these interest rates were really low, Turkey would fall apart, investments would be filled. The Prime Minister says so. Why would you trade the president of the Central Bank for a two-line law and deprive him of the abuse of Turkey? Look, you had a conversation today, what happened? Dollar's up. What happened? The interest went up. Change the Central Bank, reset it, even get negative interest. What do you do? Let's make things better. Either you don't know these things, or what's it all about that you know? It's evolving backwards. You put in four or five types of interest here. Come, comfort this citizen, increase your interest rate to two or three more digits, make it different, make it a little easier for those who can't pay. I salute the grand jury. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0022par0040	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'll have the other motion read. But I'd like to say something, members of lawmakers: I've asked you many times to keep quiet here. You may not notice where you're sitting, but this noise gathers and comes to the stand in a roar, and we can't listen to the speaker on the stand, we can't listen to what's being read, and it's ringing in our ears as a hum. Please, help us to work in good health. If you speak a little quieter, you'll stop us physically uncomfortable, please. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article be added "by the end of the second month," which follows the date of which the law has been published. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0023par0049	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0022par0050	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0024par0051	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0022par0052	Mr. Haydar Akar will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0025par0055	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, after the holidays, we're back, we're trying to talk about the bag of laws that people are waiting for on the third day, and we're trying to get it out. I say that the nation is waiting. Because they asked you during the holidays, why is this bag of laws not being passed? In my last speech, I told you why the bag bill didn't come out, how much you agreed to the number of decisions required in the House, how much you didn't participate in. You have an attitude I don't understand, and for two days you've been attacking opposition parties in an aggressive manner to avoid this law. It's hard to understand, but every day you keep this law a little longer. In fact, you all know that there are good things that you bury in the law that you have to offer to your investors and your supporters.) But I'm saying, you don't have to do this. Today, now, in this article, there's talk of pardoning fines in customs or some taxes in customs, but that's what you're doing, you've already done for 3-5 companies, and you're still doing it, but you're not in such a hurry for those who are waiting in Soma. You reject all the suggestions that the opposition has offered to enforce this bill in order to cure the suffering of the grieving mothers waiting in Soma. You're doing everything you can to undermine the expectations of the orphaned children living in Soma, or the expectations of our miners, and you're going out on the street to complain about us. We repeat once again, we say: "Pull up three or five items, and we'll get them all out in one day." But you're not coming to this. Now, you say that the people are waiting for it, the citizen is waiting for it, the small shopkeeper is waiting for it. Since the small tradesman can't pay the tax debt of $3,000, because he's being punished, because he can't pay the traffic ticket, you're bragging about the 17th largest economy, but in the Republic of Turkey, where you can't even catch the pace of growth in the history of the Republic of Turkey, you've left everyone poor, they don't even have a chance to pay their taxes, so you're always giving them forgiveness. But what the citizen doesn't know is that the one who cursed those people, the one who put a stop to it, I'm curious as to why you didn't tell them how much of his taxes, how much of his punishment, how much you'd forgiven him -- not even by a law -- that you'd forgiven him without making a law. Look, I'm calling it Genghis Construction; look, Canal A-- do you know who this is? The electromed company is a company that sells expensive meter to Ankarans. New Dawn, who is this? The colonels. How much do you reduce the debt with $615 million worth of new money -- 615 trillion of old money -- to what? You reduce it to 7 million in total, you forgive 608 million. Now, after that, you come out here, and you say: "The citizen is waiting for this law." We will forgive the taxes of the small tradesman, the butcher, the barber, the van driver, and we will forgive the traffic tickets. You forgive them three times their total, five times their total, without asking anyone. In fact, you're going further, erasing the $2.4 billion debt of 87 conglomerates. We're asking the minister, who are these 87 holdings? But the minister isn't answering. There's a lot to tell, but I want to talk about last night. My friend, the Muhtars, told me last night that the people's man was on TV, and he didn't have any prompter in front of him, he didn't have any writing. He asked her, and she explained it to him, and she said: "Someone who's gone out for me said I'm Georgian." Worse than that, he said I was an Armenian. Yes, friends, I am a Georgian, I am an Armenian, I am a Circeşa, I am a Laz. I am a Kurdish, I am a Turk.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0026par0060	You're flexing!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0025par0061	I am Sunni. I am Alevi. I am Shii. I am Jaferi. I am Turkish. I am Muslim.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0027par0062	Don't get me wrong, Haydar!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0025par0063	Hitler didn't even do this kind of racism, guys, not even Hitler. Look, the same tall man, the same nation's man, on August 11, 2004, was saying in Georgia: "I am the child of a Georgian family of Batum immigrants, and we have migrated to Rize. " He was saying this, but at night he was saying how bad it is to be a Georgian, how bad it is to be an Armenian.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0027par0065	Don't make it up, Haydar!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0025par0066	Shame on you, I invite you to apologize to the Georgians, Armenians, all races, all sects. The Georgians will not forgive him. In your group, there are 10 Georgians, four Georgians in the CHP Group, 3 million Georgians in Turkey. He says the Georgians can't be insulted, and no one will let him insult him.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0028par0069	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0029par0071	In his speech, he stated that he insulted the Georgians, the Armenians.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0028par0072	Congressmans, I can't hear, there's a terrible hum coming, why, I beg you, don't you understand?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0029par0073	Mr. President, in his speech, the president of the group stated that our Prime Minister insulted the Georgians, the Armenians, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0030par0074	He didn't, he didn't, for God's sake!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0028par0075	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0029par0078	Very dear friends...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0031par0079	The way he talks, he talks on TV, it's obvious.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0032par0080	He told me what was said on TV.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0029par0081	Sir, if you could just listen for a minute... unless you know what racism means, who did it. Dear friends, there's a Prime Minister who embraces each section and loves it because of the Creator.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0033par0083	Don't, Mayor, don't!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0029par0084	Look, he's saying...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0034par0085	I'm sorry, it's obvious!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0029par0086	I'm explaining exactly: he's out, one of them...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0035par0087	You're not convincing.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0029par0088	...excuse me, something much uglier... now, there have been much ugliest descriptions of our Prime Minister, who has been much more negatively insulted and has not been able to speak of him.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0036par0089	Like what?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0029par0090	I'm sorry instead. He said! With all the tweezers, all the tweezers...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0037par0091	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0029par0092	...to make Mr. Prime Minister look racist... and if Hitler is racist, then you know him very well.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0038par0093	It's in your futrate, your futrate!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0029par0094	You know him very well. Look in the mirror! Look, dear friends, all the Ottoman subjects who lost their lives because of the events of 1915, and by the way, for the Armenians, for the first time, there's a Prime Minister who shares the pain. Again, during your era, there was a class massacre. So get out... there's a Prime Minister apologizing for my class.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0039par0097	Talk about today, today!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0029par0098	For the first time in this country, there is a Kurdish problem.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0040par0099	If you had taken it, you should have done it!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0029par0100	...and there's a Prime Minister who says he's my Kurdish brother, who embraces the entire 77 million. I'm sorry, you'll have to talk about the right things. These people know exactly who's racist and who's not.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0041par0101	You'll believe what the Prime Minister says!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0029par0102	This kind of talk after the holidays, what they're saying here, dear friends, doesn't seem appropriate. You shouldn't second-guess him because you're gonna criticize him. You can't make it sound like you're saying things that aren't said that you're going to criticize them. You're going to tweeze, he said that here. You're going to say that. Yeah, so many dots of expression used, and the Prime Minister didn't have the tongue to say it.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0042par0103	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0029par0104	Excuse me, some very ugly things have been used.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0043par0105	Don't make such a twist!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0029par0106	Shame on you, Mr. Haydar! [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If anyone should apologize, it's you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0044par0110	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0045par0112	Look in the mirror, look in the mirror. He teased and insulted. I want to answer it.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0044par0113	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0046par0115	Don't twist it, don't twist it!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0045par0117	Well, folks, you have to look at the definition of people who live on the same land, and they're a community of people who have language, feelings, ideals, history, culture, and interests. For twelve years, until you were in power, no one spoke of Sunni, or Alevi, in this land. No one prays for the holidays.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0044par0119	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0045par0120	... he wasn't looking at his neighbor as he went to the festival. You...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0047par0121	No one could say what it was.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0048par0122	What happened in my class?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0045par0123	We'll settle up with my class. We've dealt with Dersim. We've dealt with a poor parent who was born in Dersim.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0049par0124	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0045par0125	The lecturers reckon, by hanging the Ataturk picture in their house, by hanging the Ataturk picture in their houses, but it's impossible to understand, who does this Prime Minister want to deal with, and why does he want to deal with? And once in a while, you might want to question it.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0050par0126	Too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0045par0127	Constantly breaking apart, stressing the Flame, Sunni, Jaferi, the Sunni in the Middle East, while the Alevis were being killed, while they were booing their mother in the squares, the 15-year-old Alevi boy...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0051par0128	Don't flex.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0045par0129	... a Prime Minister who declared the Alevi boy a terrorist who went to buy bread, who was worse than the Armenians. I regret that.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0051par0130	No one will believe that, Haydar.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0052par0131	Who was in power in '93?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0045par0132	Here, the future must apologize to all Georgians, all Armenians, all Turks, all Kurds who live in the Republic of Turkey for doing this dissolution.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0051par0133	You apologize.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0045par0134	That's what you have to say, that's what. There's no need to say any more. If you'd listened tonight, which you obviously weren't. I'm telling you: one of them who's come out for me is a coward. He said, "I'm sorry." He said, "I'm sorry." He said, "I'm sorry." He said, "I'm sorry."
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0051par0135	He's putting it together.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0053par0136	That's not it, you're saying it wrong.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0045par0137	It is shameful and sinful.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0054par0138	Stop it, Mr. Haydar.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0045par0139	He says don't divide this country, and I pay all my respects.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0055par0141	You still don't get it!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0045par0142	Go out there and talk.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0056par0143	Even the Sivas massacre happened during your time.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0057par0144	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0058par0145	Guys, please... This will never end.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0057par0147	Mr. President, I'm not going to pick on you, I'm going to make a statement. Please, no teasing, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0059par0149	Listen to the TV, brother. Listen, for God's sake, listen.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0060par0150	Yesterday, we promised seven times for a taunt, seven times.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0061par0151	He'll say the same thing, there's no point in listening again.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0062par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Haydar, if he had said what he really said correctly, I would have said amenna, not like this.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0063par0155	Let's play it here, let's play it from the podium.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0064par0156	Put it on the stand.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0062par0157	Open it, look, it's the first one. Secondly, dear friends, until the AK PARTY government, no one could say that they were Sunni and no one was saying that they were Flames...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0065par0159	No, why couldn't he say?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0062par0160	He couldn't say.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0065par0161	I was saying I was Georgian.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0062par0162	I'm Kurd. He couldn't say, I'm Alevi. He couldn't say, he couldn't express himself.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0065par0163	Now I'll answer that.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0062par0164	And our Prime Minister said that everyone should look as they are or as they appear. Let each man express himself as he is, whatever he believes, whatever he feels, he expressed himself, as he expressed his own feelings -- however he feels himself -- this is not a division, it's a integration.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0066par0165	In your day, it was a crime to say "Turkkum."
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0067par0166	Mr. Ahmet, come on, Turk. Say the name of this nation and let it be written.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0062par0167	And 77 million, Kurdish, Turkish, Alevi, Sunni, Georgian, Bosniak, and Pomak are the only 77 million people living in this country. He said, as the definition of one nation, he expressed the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey. If you know, it's integration, it's a brotherhood project, it's a solution project, and it's the way everyone in this country believes in, it's the way they live, it's the way they speak, it's the language, it's the way they live, it's the way they express themselves, what's more natural than that?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0067par0168	Come on, Ahmet Bey, say the name of this nation and let it go through your mouth.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0062par0169	The AK PARTY opened the way for this, the EC PARTY removed the repressed identities, their repressed beliefs. Everyone in this country, 77 million, as a free man, said to live as a free person, and I say that the AK PARTY is the one that paves the way. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0068par0172	Thank you. 4-Current of Law and Law Act; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel; Ankara MP Izzet Çetin; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party Deputy MP Oktay Köçal; İstanbul MP Sena Kallıtı's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Balukı; İstanbul MP İzken's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Çeçı; Ankara MP İzket Balukı's Party's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Minister's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Democratic Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP İdıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK) and İstanbul's Party's Party's Party (TK). Number: 639) [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0069par0178	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0068par0179	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Let's vote on the electronic device, I'll give you two minutes. [[The electronic device started voting.]] Congressmans, Mr. Kalayci, if you have the opportunity to review the new motion, I will continue, or will I take a recess, and will you take a break?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0070par0184	Just a minute, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0068par0185	Mr. Fine, that goes for you, too, because there's a new motion, whether I give you the motion or not.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0071par0186	Just give me five minutes.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0068par0188	Mr. Halaçoglu, ten minutes, if you like.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0071par0189	Five minutes.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0068par0190	Okay. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0068par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 130th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The Commission and the Government are here. There are four motions on Article 84: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following jokes be added after the fifteenth joke, and the fourth joke (a) be replaced in the following manner. Nurettin Canikli Ahmet Aydın Recep Special Hüseyin Şahin Yilmaz Tunç İdris Şahin "e) According to social security laws, pensions or pensions are due to pensions, but to those whose pensions should be cut due to the work of institutions and institutions that are part of Article 30 of Law 5335, due to their second joke, due to their work in the workplaces of institutions and institutions, due to the period of which this clause has been paid illegally until the period of the payment of the period of due to the date in which it has entered into effect," he said. In addition to the first joke (g) of Article 60 of the Law (a) the premium debt due to the status of the insurance clause (e.g.), if the amount of other debts calculated according to this Article's provisions is fully paid during the period of the initial payment period, no interest will be imposed on this amount for the duration of the period of the release of this clause. The premium debt due to the first joke of Article 60 (g) insurance status of the law shall not be collected by social security legislation until the period of the payment of the original instalment period, if the original is paid fully during the initial payment period." "For his name and account, independent employees and employees of his own name and account, 2/9/1971 of independent employees, Traders and Artists and Other Independent Workers' Association of Social Insurance Act 1479, and those who have not been published on the basis of their own terms, or those whose rights have been imposed in the month 17/10/1983, and those who have not been covered by their previous laws, may be able to pay their insurance for the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the article, in which the article has been passed, in accordance with their earlier laws. If all of the debt is paid during the first installment period, the amount of time suspended is considered an insurance period. If all of the debt is not paid during the initial payment period of payment, the care process is not valid, and the amount paid under this clause is extracurricularly returned, provided there is no bonus debt other than the scope of this clause." " (6) The installments that should be paid according to this article will be used by the end of the month, if two or less installments are not paid in a calendar year, or if they are not paid in due period, or if they are paid missing in installments, by the end of the month, according to Article 5183, and by the end of the month of the month of which the payment of payments paid or missing in installments, will be calculated according to the number of Article 51. The right to use such clause provisions is also lost if the payments not paid or short-paid are not paid in the manner specified, or if more than two installments are not paid in a calendar year, or if they are paid in less than two. This shall be applied separately for the instalments in terms of the collection agencies they will be sentenced to. (16) The amount required to be paid under this clause is in thirty-six equitable installments of the state's private administrations, municipalities, and the state's private and public legal personality, in two months' periodal periodal minimum, in accordance with Article 75 of the Law that violates this clause, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Turkey's Football Federation and autonomous sports federation, and can be paid by sports clubs that operate in Turkey in two months's sport. This coefficient, then, shall be applied for twenty-four installments, for thirty-five installments, for thirty-five installments, for thirty-six, and forty-two for an equal payment." (17) As long as the original items are paid before the release of this item, 40% of the original ones you will receive as of the date of the release of this item will be waived if the original one is paid in the first installment period. If 40% of the original paid fer is intended to be paid in installments, it is paid according to the 4th (c) version of this article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 84 of the 639 Ordered Bill of Law, dated 31/5/2006 and envisioning adding temporary material to Law 5510, we propose that the expression "seven months" and "three months" and "three months" and "three months" and "eight months" be changed into "one month" and "four months." İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Sebahat Tucson Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to Article 5510, we provide and propose the addition of the 1st (e) bell to Article 60, which is predicted to be added to Article 5510. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Fatma Nur Serter Haydar Akar Chooses Vahaap "e) Employers will receive the institution for reasons such as health, maternity, unemployment, occupational hazards, occupational illness Congressmans, since the motion that I shall now read has passed 500 words, the summary of the motion will be read under Article 87 of the Civil Code, and the entire motion will be added to the report. [[x]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's
tbmm-2014-08-06sit02spe0016par0020	Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's
tbmm-2014-08-06sit01spe0009par0321	Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's Party Deputy Mustafa Kalaycı and Milleklı MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law, Oktay Öçalı's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Millıkı's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mes Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party; Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyelı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Şekerlı's Party's Party of Ministers; İstanbul MP İstın's Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı's Party; İstanbul's MP's Party of Parliament and İstanbul's Party of Ministers's Democratic Party; Ankara's Minister's Party of Ministers and İstanbul's Democratic Party; Ankara's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul's Democratic Party of Turkey's Democratic Party; Çağeşeşeşıt İçı; İstanbul's Party's Party; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul MP's Party of Turkey's Party; Ankara's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul's Party (TK) and Ankara's Party's Party's Party of Parliament's Democratic Party of Turkey's Democratic Party; Ankara's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul's Democratic Party's Party's Party's Democratic Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's MP's Party of Ministers; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's Party of Ministers; İstanbul's Party's Party's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party; İstanbul's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's Party's MP's Party's Party of Turkey's Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyelı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Şekerlı's Party's Party of Ministers; İstanbul MP İstın's Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı's Party; İstanbul's MP's Party of Parliament and İstanbul's Party of Ministers's Democratic Party; Ankara's Minister's Party of Ministers and İstanbul's Democratic Party; Ankara's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul's Democratic Party of Turkey's Democratic Party; Çağeşeşeşıt İçı; İstanbul's Party's Party; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul MP's Party of Turkey's Party; Ankara's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul's Party (TK) and Ankara's Party's Party's Party of Parliament's Democratic Party of Turkey's Democratic Party; Ankara's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul's Democratic Party's Party's Party's Democratic Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's MP's Party of Ministers; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's Party of Ministers; İstanbul's Party's Party's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party; İstanbul's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's Party's MP's Party's Party of Turkey's Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyelı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Şekerlı's Party's Party of Ministers; İstanbul MP İstın's Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı's Party; İstanbul's MP's Party of Parliament and İstanbul's Party of Ministers's Democratic Party; Ankara's Minister's Party of Ministers and İstanbul's Democratic Party; Ankara's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul's Democratic Party of Turkey's Democratic Party; Çağeşeşeşıt İçı; İstanbul's Party's Party; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul MP's Party of Turkey's Party; Ankara's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul's Party (TK) and Ankara's Party's Party's Party of Parliament's Democratic Party of Turkey's Democratic Party; Ankara's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul's Democratic Party's Party's Party's Democratic Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's MP's Party of Ministers; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's Party of Ministers; İstanbul's Party's Party's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party; İstanbul's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's Party's MP's Party's Party of Turkey's Erkan Akçay S. Nevzat Korkmaz Kemalettin Yilmaz Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Özcan Yeniçeri Article 84-31/5/2006 and Article 5510 added the following temporary clause to the Law and the debts are restructured. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0072par0042	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0068par0043	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0073par0044	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0068par0045	Mr Mustafa Kalaycı will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0074par0047	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. With this provision, insurance premiums from April 2014 and previous months are available for configuration. The general health insurance premium debt of millions of our citizens, who have been victimised by the AKP government, who have raised high premium debts and without health care benefits, is also structured by this clause. Anyone who puts a birth certificate in the Prime Minister's pocket can go to any hospital in this country without paying for it at any time. This practice has clearly shown that his words are lies. Instead of not paying, our citizens are even being made to pay back debts when they can't get health care. This injustice must be corrected. Again, the government has issued social security benefits bonuses to our retired tradesman over the years he can't handle. Although the loans referred to with this clause may be enabled, it is clear that our tradesman will find it difficult to pay these debts, as well as a 15 per cent cut from his pension. This system, which punishes the tradesman and artist, should not be cut off from the tradesman's pension, and debts related to the past years should be wiped out altogether. On the other hand, many of our citizens expect an arrangement for the service of the past tax-paying and room-registered working hours to be accounted for, to be able to borrow services. However, despite all our efforts as the National Movement Party, an arrangement in this direction has not been approved by the AKP Group. Our tradesman must be assessed as an insurance period without the need to register and register these services, which are rightfully our farmer's, and they must be given the opportunity to borrow. I invite the AKP to stand by your rights and your rights. Dear lawmakers, this bill, presented to the public as the most comprehensive amnesty law in history, is narrower than Law 6111 in 2011, and does not provide a restructuring of debt to the public outside of tax and insurance premiums. Thus, this bill does not meet expectations created in many areas. However, demand from farmers and farmers from rooms, troops and cooperatives suggests that a comprehensive arrangement is expected. See that the DSI has implemented its watering co-ops in the demand and is asked to cover loans to the DSI, which are also from agricultural irrigation to long-term restructuring of interest in farmers and cooperative debt. However, the AKP government is insensitive to the problems of our farmer and producer, which have become increasingly difficult because of the disasters he has suffered this year. Moreover, while farmers await ease in electricity debt, the AKP government has decided that agricultural support should not be given due to electricity debt. Companies and SMEs expect tax and premium pardons to be extended for sixty months, instead of 36 months due to the shortage of financing in a large debt spiral, and to be granted a record pardon so that honest commercial businesses previously blacklisted can survive and use loans. Again, there are many demands and expectations, such as covering files in the court on tax and insurance premium debt, reducing the blockage on undistended profits, covering the stock pardon, allowing all of the balance sheets of 31/12/2013 to be adjusted according to the actual situation. However, this bill is only granted a safe pardon, allowing us to correct the partners' debts. So I ask you, why is it that the vaults in particular are allowed to rectify the gaps of the bosses? Yeah, well, if tax peace is the goal, why is the arrangement not all the markers of the balance sheet, but just the debt accounts of the co-owners of the vault and the company? Is this arrangement intended for bribery in December 17th and 25th investigations? Are you taping paid bribes? You're making this arrangement for corrupts who've been transferred to the pool media, hidden in shoeboxes, hoarded in bedrooms, who've spent a lot of time trying to reset money for fear of investigation, who've been smuggled out of the villa for billions of dollars? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0075par0058	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyelı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Şekerlı's Party's Party of Ministers; İstanbul MP İstın's Party's Party; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı's Party; İstanbul's MP's Party of Parliament and İstanbul's Party of Ministers's Democratic Party; Ankara's Minister's Party of Ministers and İstanbul's Democratic Party; Ankara's Minister's Minister's Party; İstanbul's Democratic Party of Turkey's Democratic Party; Çağeşeşeşıt İçı; İstanbul's Party's Party; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul MP's Party of Turkey's Party; Ankara's Party of Turkey's Party; İstanbul's Party (TK) and Ankara's Party's Party's Party of Parliament's Democratic Party of Turkey's Democratic Party; Ankara's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul's Democratic Party's Party's Party's Democratic Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's MP's Party of Ministers; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's Party of Ministers; İstanbul's Party's Party's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party; İstanbul's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's Party's MP's Party's Party of Turkey's In addition to Article 5510, we provide and propose the addition of the 1st (e) bell to Article 60, which is predicted to be added to Article 5510. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends "e) Employers will receive the institution for reasons such as health, maternity, unemployment, occupational hazards, occupational illness Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0076par0066	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0075par0067	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0077par0068	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0075par0069	Ankara MP Izzet Çetin will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0078par0072	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, indeed, there have been amendments to the matter of this bag of law before the matter has been discussed. It's very interesting. The motion, which was just read by the ruling party, began with a joke added to the (1) (e) joke after the subcommittee and the top commission had not yet been accepted (d) joke, which I would like to enter from there. This arrangement is an arrangement with Law No. 5335 on 21/4/2005, which brings forgiveness to those assigned by the power by the AKP to certain places by the authorities if they were paid extra by those assigned after retirement. It's not really possible to accept. This bag of legislation, once again, unfortunately, is being transformed into a bag of laws that protects its own contractors, its own interests, rather than the rest of the 301 miners who died in Soma, and a bag containing a raging subcontractor system. I wanted to get your attention here. This is indeed, as our dear friend, who just spoke from the National Movement Party, said, is not a material that responds to expectations. It's clear that if we just attempt to say the important parts of the substance, the five-minute motion period won't allow us to rank it, but it is an arrangement about the months before April 2014, which allows for a large percentage of the non-payment of the institution to be removed from its interest and to be structured in certain proportions of the proportions written in this article, depending on time. It doesn't matter whether you agree or not because you're in power, because you've been punishing your tax pardons, your honest and honest tradesman, your artist, your freelancer, your freelancer, who doesn't fulfill his obligation, who doesn't pay his tax, who doesn't pay his premium debt on time, or whether you're going to have to forgive your followers anyway. You're going to do this every time. You're going to do this with a bag of laws. Now, in this article, there is no solution to the problems of a tradesman who can't actually become a taxpayer; in institutions, within social security institutions, as an officer or as a worker or as a pensioner or as a pensioner, even though he has completed his age, there will be no response to the expectations of citizens who can't get paid due to the number of days; there will be no problem for the state that we punish them with a law that we've done in 1999, then we'll send them to retirement, and then we'll send them to pensioners in the period of your powers, and then there will be 25 percent of your pensions, and there will be no worry for the people who have to pay their pensions because they can't get paid. So, what is it? Those of your followers who do not pay, do not pay. There is also forgiveness for what you say. It's not right, it's not right, it's not honest, it's not really legal. Dear friends, in a motion that was made just now, you're dismissing an arrangement in that thick book -- I didn't bring it here. The 17th article is being changed here, it says that if the principal money is paid, give me 40 percent of the delay increase and the interest interest, and I'll forgive 60 percent of the interest. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0079par0082	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0080par0085	Mr. President, I'd like a brief word on my position in accordance with Article 63 of the AKP's motion.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0079par0086	Wait a minute, let's wrap this up.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0080par0087	But before that, I...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0079par0088	Wait a minute, let's wrap this up. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 84 of the Law Bill 639, dated 31/5/2006 and presuming to add temporary material to Law 5510, we propose that the term "seven months" and "three months" be changed into "six months" and "eight months" into "one month," "four months" and "two months" into "three months." Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Wait a minute. What did you say, Mr. Young?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0081par0094	Sir, now, there's a motion from the AKP. Now, did you first understand this motion? Because the president who runs the House needs to know the issues given here. Anyway, you didn't find out. Now, here's a motion...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0079par0096	Now, please, don't get me involved, don't get me involved, don't say anything about me, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0081par0098	I beg you... since I'm running the House there for seven years, it's important to at least understand the bill and proposals that are coming in here in the Parliament's Presidential Court, because the motions that come in here are putting the state under a great burden. Now, in the AKP's motion, sir, people who retired from social security institutions and worked there were paid unfairly. This, of course, is paid to the AKP's supporters.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0079par0100	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0081par0101	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0079par0102	But finish it, we don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0081par0103	Sir, I'm saying something, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0079par0104	Yeah, but make it quick.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0081par0105	Why are you trying so hard to cover up corruption?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0079par0106	Okay, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0081par0109	I'm saying, look, in this motion, people who are retired from social security agencies and who aren't supposed to get paid from the government are unfairly paid by the government, and they're on top of it. Now, he brings in 40 percent of it with the motion, forgiving 60 percent of it. Now, no matter how many zoning pardons there have been before, no matter how many tax pardons there have been for smugglers, no matter how many countries there have been, at the last moment, AKP chiefs, especially Nurettin Canikli, are bringing motions here, forgiving them. Shame on the state, sir! It's a shame about all this.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0082par0112	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0081par0113	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0082par0114	We, the Court, examine the motions in terms of style and procedure.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0081par0115	It's not shape, sir, it's essence.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0082par0116	Please... can I have your attention for a moment?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0081par0117	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0082par0118	Besides, I'm taking a break from this motion because of the joint request of the group's vice presidents. I'm taking a break, and the group's vice presidents have reviewed the motion, which is signed here. From now on, we have nothing to do. Besides, right now, we're going to discuss the People's Democratic Party's motion. Thank you. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0083par0121	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0082par0122	The government...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0084par0123	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0082par0124	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to give more time to the debtors for the duration of the statute of limitations after the amendment and the provision of matter. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0085par0128	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0082par0129	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who don't agree... there's not enough of a decision. I'm doing electronics.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0085par0132	No, sir. Why are you doing this? Why do you do it with an electronic device?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit03spe0082par0133	Okay, okay, okay, okay. I said no, I need a break. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 130th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 84, İzmir MP Rahmi Türeli of Love and his friends' motion was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The accompanying jokes (e) will be added after the fifteenth joke, the fourth joke (a) and 5th and 6th jokes will be changed in the following manner. Nurettin Canikli Ahmet Aydın Recep Special Hüseyin Şahin Yilmaz Tunç İdris Şahin "e) According to social security laws, pensions or pensions are due to pensions, but to those whose pensions should be cut due to the work of institutions and institutions that are part of Article 30 of Law 5335, due to their second joke, due to their work in the workplaces of institutions and institutions, due to the period of which this clause has been paid illegally until the period of the payment of the period of due to the date in which it has entered into effect," he said. In addition to the first joke (g) of Article 60 of the Law (a) the premium debt due to the status of the insurance clause (e.g.), if the amount of other debts calculated according to this Article's provisions is fully paid during the period of the initial payment period, no interest will be imposed on this amount for the duration of the period of the release of this clause. The premium debt due to the first joke of Article 60 (g) insurance status of the law shall not be collected by social security legislation until the period of the payment of the original instalment period, if the original is paid fully during the initial payment period." "For his name and account, independent employees and employees of his own name and account, 2/9/1971 of independent employees, Traders and Artists and Other Independent Workers' Association of Social Insurance Act 1479, and those who have not been published on the basis of their own terms, or those whose rights have been imposed in the month 17/10/1983, and those who have not been covered by their previous laws, may be able to pay their insurance for the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the article, in which the article has been passed, in accordance with their earlier laws. If all of the debt is paid during the first installment period, the amount of time suspended is considered an insurance period. If all of the debt is not paid during the initial payment period of payment, the care process is not valid, and the amount paid under this clause is extracurricularly returned, provided there is no bonus debt other than the scope of this clause." " (6) The installments that should be paid according to this article will be used by the end of the month, if two or less installments are not paid in a calendar year, or if they are not paid in due period, or if they are paid missing in installments, by the end of the month, according to Article 5183, and by the end of the month of the month of which the payment of payments paid or missing in installments, will be calculated according to the number of Article 51. The right to use such clause provisions is also lost if the payments not paid or short-paid are not paid in the manner specified, or if more than two installments are not paid in a calendar year, or if they are paid in less than two. This shall be applied separately for the instalments in terms of the collection agencies they will be sentenced to. (16) The amount required to be paid under this clause is in thirty-six equitable installments of the state's private administrations, municipalities, and the state's private and public legal personality, in two months' periodal periodal minimum, in accordance with Article 75 of the Law that violates this clause, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Turkey's Football Federation and autonomous sports federation, and can be paid by sports clubs that operate in Turkey in two months's sport. This coefficient, then, shall be applied for twenty-four installments, for thirty-five installments, for thirty-five installments, for thirty-six, and forty-two for an equal payment." (17) As long as the original items are paid before the release of this item, 40% of the original ones you will receive as of the date of the release of this item will be waived if the original one is paid in the first installment period. If 40% of the original paid fer is intended to be paid in installments, it is paid according to the 4th (c) version of this article. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0086par0023	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0024	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0087par0025	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0026	I'm reading the reason: It is also possible for those who are pensioned from social security institutions and who are due to work in public administration to be able to make up their monthly payments to those who have to be paid in the same terms as the debt to the Finance Ministry, and to waive the first joke of the 4th Article of the Law (b) in the restructuring of the premium debts of insuranceors (b) under the scope of the subsidies, as well as the payment of 60% of those who are owed to other loans under my scope, to pay the compensation obligations of the municipal authorities, and to pay off their debt to the state's budget and to the state of the state of the state. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the matter is accepted.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0088par0031	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0032	Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0088par0033	Mr. President, a moment ago...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0034	Congressman, if you'll excuse me, I'm doing a procedure here.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0088par0035	You're processing, but you're done.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0036	I don't have to promise you every time you want to say something.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0088par0038	You're moving on to the new process after matter.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0039	Please...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0088par0040	I'm telling you something.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0041	I've started processing.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0088par0042	No, you haven't. I asked after the motion vote.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0043	There's a motion for a new substance violation. I'll have them read the motions and ask the Commission...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0088par0044	Oh, wait a minute, I want your fucking word! Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0045	...if the commission is in the motion for the majority, I'll open up a meeting on the motions as a new clause.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0088par0046	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0047	If the commission simply disagrees, I'll remove the motions from the process.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0088par0048	Mr. President, after you voted the clause, I asked for your word.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0049	I'd like a moment of your time, please. I'll give you my word, but my decision stands here, not yours.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0088par0050	You have to listen to me. I mean, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0051	I'll listen whenever I want, please.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0088par0052	Sir, no, the TV wasn't giving my word when I was talking here, so that's not gonna happen. We're talking about the corruption of the AKP, and you're turning it down!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0053	I'll give you my word, but not when you want it, but when I want it, I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0088par0054	No, just look here, you bring it in, you vote unfairly. Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0055	I'm going to read the motion now: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 639 is 84 on the Numbered Bill of Legislature. We provide and propose that the following item be added after the article. Engin Altay Ali Serindağ İzmir Sinop Gaziantep It is dated 85 31/5/2006 and is added to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510. FROM those who served under the 3466 Specialist Penal Code in the Turkish Armed Forces, who changed status to become a petty officer or officer or who have been subject to this Law and who have been cut off from the Turkish Armed Forces for any reason, who have been applying within six months of the law's mandate, who have been appointed at the Special Assembly School of the Law. As part of the first joke (c) of item number one, it counts as an insurance period. In six months from the time of the application, the terms of these terms will be paid to the institution by the General Command of the Gendarmes, which is calculated by the principal earnings of the Special Police Sergeant. Commission, do you agree with the motions in general?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0089par0064	I'd like to invite the members of the Plan and Budget Commission, please, for the sake of the new clause. Mr. President, we don't have a majority, we can't participate.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0066	Since the commission has not been able to participate in the same proposal for the most part, I'm dismissing the motion. Yes, please.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0090par0068	Mr. President, the AKP Group has just issued a motion by Nurettin Canikli, which means that a person, normally according to our laws, will retire from social security institutions and if he ever works again, his pension will be cut off. Now, did you just say that Nurettin Canikli...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0069	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0090par0070	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0071	Mr. Young, can I ask you something?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0090par0072	Sir?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0073	Can I ask you something?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0091par0074	Just hear me out.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0090par0075	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0076	Now, we have voted on this motion.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0090par0077	No, no, but I...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0078	The General Assembly has decided.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0090par0079	I'm not talking about it.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0080	We voted on the item.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0090par0081	I get it, but just hear me out.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0082par0082	Matter accepted. Now, why do you want to discuss the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0090par0083	Mr. President, listen to me. Listen, listen, listen.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0092par0084	Mayor, just hear me out. Just hear me out, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0090par0085	So listen to me. And I'm going to talk about this... so normally people who aren't supposed to get paid here are paid, and then, of course, these AKP people... now they're getting out of 40 percent of that salary.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0093par0087	So what do we do now?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0090par0088	Wait a minute, I'm telling you. While I'm saying this -- look, I asked you to promise -- that's what the TV doesn't give me when I'm expressing it in my place. I mean, would that happen? You're the Deputy Speaker of the House. When we talk about a minute here...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0093par0090	Tell me what you have to say and I'll process it.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0090par0091	...just because he's touching the AKP people, you're lowering our voice because we're expressing corruption. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0093par0092	Thank you. Now, there are three motions in Article 85, which I'm going to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the 85th article, which stipulates to add temporary clauses to the Law for Powerless and Unregistered Turkish Citizens on Monthly Bondage, we propose and propose that the declaration of the Law of 639 rows be changed as "unregisterable" in Article 85, dated 1/7/ 1976 and 2022. İdris Bauken Nazmi Gür Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 85 of the Law Bill 639 be changed in the following way. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Fatma Nur Serter Haluk Eyidoğan Haydar Akar MADDE 85- 1/7/1976's No. 65-Year-Old Needy, 2022, added a temporary clause to the Law on the Monthly Bondage of Weak and Lonely Turkish Citizens. "Securities and interest due to the monthly payments that have been paid and should be taken back until the time this clause is in effect have been abandoned to those within the scope of this Law. No judicial, administrative and executions will be followed about the interests. Collects made by the administration are returned to its subjects before the matter is implemented as part of improper payments." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 85 of the current Law Bill 639 be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay S. Nevzat Korkmaz Kemalettin Yilmaz The Law on the Monthly Bondage of Powerless and Lonely Turkish Citizens has been added to the following interim clause. "Securities and interest due to the monthly payments that have been paid and should be taken back until the time this clause is in effect have been abandoned to those within the scope of this Law. No judicial, administrative and executions will be followed about the interests. The collections made by the administration before the application of the substance are not returned to its subjects as part of improper payments. The collections made by the administration after 30/5/2014 are extradited as part of improper payments. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0094par0119	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0093par0120	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0095par0121	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0093par0122	Mr Mustafa Kalaycı will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0096par0125	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The clause that we're interviewing is a release of penalties and interest due to the disproportionate months after the 65-year-old month has been paid, for those who have failed to meet the terms. According to Law 2022, the monthly income per person in the household is monthly for citizens and disabled who are over 65 years old, less than a third of the net minimum wage. However, paid monthlys are very inadequate in today's terms. As of today, the 65-year-old month is at $140, the needy, the disabled and the under 18-year-old disabled are at a close salary of $280, and the disability pension of another person is at $420. I'm asking, do you think it's appropriate for the needy, the disabled, and the elderly, to give only $4.5 a day to the elderly, not to bother your conscience, to give your child an allowance? This year, the AKP government raised $10 for 65 years of age, $20 for a close month of disability and disability, and $30 for a disabled month in need of someone else's help. Mind you, these funny raises are annual. The elderly and the needy didn't get a raise last month. Since the pensions of our elderly and the disabled have been increased according to the number of civil servants, the increase in other payments has been very low by this year, and our elderly and disabled have been crushed by inflation. 65-year-olds and disability pensions must be cured because they are not able to make a living with these months. Deliable lawmakers also crush the AKP's ruling, minimum wage and subcontractor workers with inflation. Last month's raise to minimum wage was only $45 and remained below inflation. The minimum wage and subcontractors can't make the end of the month on their wages. For the first time in July, public employees didn't get a second half raise. At the beginning of the year, the ridiculous 123 lira increase has melted away months ago and public employees are also being crushed by inflation. The AKP government has no idea how pensioners, widows and orphans live off the monthly allowance. He condemned our pensioners to poverty, made them helpless. The pensioners are said to be free of medical expenses, but the salary is turned into a bird with cuts, such as medical fees, notice fees, participation, prescription money, box money, hotel money, drug difference money. And then you borrow money on why you work for a pensioner, and you get a bonus on your pension. The AKP government also crushes pensioners with inflation. When it is evaluated for its pencils, such as food, rent, transportation, water, electricity, and gas, which reflect true inflation, it will be understood that the situation is grave. Retireds have been fighting for eight years to get a bank promotion, but the AKP couldn't even do it. While officers have been taking advantage of bank promotions for years, pensioners have been treated as stepchildren. The AKP government has constantly disappointed pensioners. The pension between pensioners promised to compensate for its injustice, but failed to fulfil it. A partial improvement has only been made for former SEC pensioners before 2000. The inequality of pensioners after 2000 has been ignored. The AKP's government has never considered the victims of government-Kur pensioners. What else can you expect from the AKP government, which sees pensions as high! It is the AKP (AKP) who has already passed the law that reduces the pension share of pensions from 100 per cent to 30 per cent, which includes half as much pension as today's months for post 2000 services. Precious lawmakers, minimum wagers, subcontractors, public workers and pensioners, have been handed over by the AKP government to the lobby of interest and many have fallen into debt and interest losses due to credit cards and consumer loans. I call upon the AKP government to stand down. It is imperative that this bag should be made in this law to provide a measure of healing for minimum wagers, subcontractors, public workers, pensioners, elderly and disabled. Instead of always filling up your own bag, consider the condition of the minimum wager, subcontractor, public workers, pensioners, elderly people, and disabled persons. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0097par0134	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 639 Orders Numbered Law Bill 85. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends MADDE 85- 1/7/1976's No. 65-Year-Old Needy, 2022, added a temporary clause to the Law on the Monthly Bondage of Weak and Lonely Turkish Citizens. "Securities and interest due to the monthly payments that have been paid and should be taken back until the time this clause is in effect have been abandoned to those within the scope of this Law. No judicial, administrative and executions will be followed about the interests. Collects made by the administration are returned to its subjects before the matter is implemented as part of improper payments." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0098par0143	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0097par0144	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0099par0145	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0097par0146	Mr. Ayşe Nedret Akova will speak on the motion, Balıkesir MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0100par0149	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to discuss Article 85 of Law Bill 639. We were sent by the government to negotiate with the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on May 30th and met with an accident on May 13th -- as a result of this disaster -- an offer of law to improve the mines, to improve the conditions, the living conditions, the workers' rights. This bill was presented as 61 clauses -- I believe it was presented with very good intentions -- but the Plan Budget Subcommittee reached 149 plus 1 temporary clauses in the Charter Subcommittee, 106 articles, and the Computational Plan Overstance Commission has reached 149 articles. Again, we see that there have been additional materials during the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, this bag bill reminds me of a poem by Edip Candor. The poem is long, but I want to read a verse because I think he briefly told us what this bag bill has become. The man put his keys on the table. He put the flowers in the copper bowl. He put the milk in the egg. He put the light in the window. He put the sound of the bicycle, the sound of the wheel. He put the softness of the air. He put the things on the table. Respected lawmakers, the bag bill began to meet with the Plan and Budget Commission on 3 June 2014, while our motions for the working conditions and rights of our miners were rejected. For miners, the road has been changed, and is now an incomprehensible text with violations of the law. Naturally, our miners are reactive. Moreover, the key developments in the agenda are being tried to bypass by distracting the ruling public with a bag of legislation. While each section of society is waiting for something to come out of the bag for its own benefit, the Middle East region we are in continues to cry blood. Turkish citizens are prisoners, they are not heard from, and the news on this issue is censored and wrong. The fact that the bill is not discussed in the secondary commissions, that it is only discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission, is incompatible with the seriousness of the legislative activity. The bill has not been submitted to the Economic and Social Council, which became a constitutional institution with a constitutional amendment in 2010, without the opinion of NGOs, unions, and has been brought to the Plan and Budget Commission without these opinions. Turkey has been brought to the Grand National Assembly. We see that while we wait for this bill, called the Soma bill, to address the subcontractor problem and to heal the wounds of the Soma disaster, the subcontractorship, which is a system where labor is exploited, remains to be maintained. Unfortunately, this bill, which has created serious expectations in public, was not opposed to subcontracting, but has been removed from the point of the issue by adding unrelated arrangements. In addition, many of the regulations that violate the principles of our Constitution's rule of law and the principles of dissolution of powers have been added to this bill. The bill became a bag of bills that served in privatisation, staffing, subcontractorship and capital, over the suffering of the Soma disaster. All promises made to our miners have been forgotten. Mining workers and relatives were promised 15 promises by the ruling authorities. We see that all 4 of them have been fully fulfilled, 3 of them partially fulfilled, but 8 of them have not been fulfilled. Indeed, we have many martyrs among our 301 citizens from Balıkesir. We've only lost 85 casualties from the Battlefell. Therefore, they reach out to us, tell us their troubles, and declare that the changes in the bill they hope for are not the answer to their problems, and that we must tell them from the stand. Article 138 of our Constitution shall regulate the independence of our courts. According to this article, no body, authority, authority or person can give orders to courts or judges in the use of judicial authority; it cannot send orders and instructions; it cannot give advice and advice. Thank you very much. I will refer to Balıkesir's SECKA (SECA) in the next talk.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0101par0159	Thank you, Mr. Akova. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Sequential Bill of Law, dated 1/7/1976, shall be replaced as "returnable" in Article 85, which stipulates to add temporary material to the Law on the Monthly Bonding of Powerless and Unwanted Turkish Citizens of 2022. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0102par0166	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0101par0167	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0103par0168	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0101par0169	Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0104par0171	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the 85th Amendment to the Law and Law Act 639, and on behalf of the People's Democratic Party. The bill provides a temporary extension of the Law on the Monthly Connection of the Poor and the Lonely Turkish Citizens to the 65-Year-Old People, who have ranked in 2022 rows. According to the interim clause to be added to the law, the people under this law have been left behind on charges and interest due to the monthly payments that should be paid inadvertently until the time this clause is in effect. No judicial, administrative and executions will be followed about the interests. As part of improper payments, collections made by the administration before the application of the clause are not returned to the interested. As part of Law 2022, the honorable MPs are a more comprehensive reality in the period of the AK PARTY governments, which are linked to both our needy citizens and disabled individuals who have reached 65 years of age. The number of citizens taking advantage of their 2022 months has also shown a significant increase in the past decade. On the other hand, their 2022 months haven't reached enough levels yet. It's impossible for a citizen with no other income for 2022 months to live his life. The process of the 2022 month-long commitment to the rightful owner is long and challenging for the citizens. Both the 2022 months and other similar social benefits are an important requirement of the policy of the social state, but unfortunately, during every election period, the AK PARTI government is also involved in populist approaches to these salaries, which are connected to our victims, as is the case with most of our citizens. Dear lawmakers, in some articles of the bill, as we know, there is an arrangement on the interest of public interest, and the debt of citizens to public institutions is made to be easy to pay, but it is a very different situation to be made with this clause. Under the Law No. 2022, it is expected to be paid unwarranted -- in a more explicit way -- that the collection of money paid to those who don't deserve the monthly allowance is waived. This practice, which the government wants to do with its populist approach, leads to tremendous injustices. Dear lawmakers, it is neither legal nor social policy to pay public money to people who have not actually earned it and then to give it back to them. This practice is intended to open the way for the laundering of these people and public personnel who have been paid unfairly -- just to appear nice to a pre-election citizen -- even though they did not deserve to apply for 2022 months. Mr. President, good lawmakers, governments do not have the right to corrupt public money by means of political interests and then cover it up. The understanding that rewards this unjust and unlawful practice is unacceptable, as it does not bring any sanctions to public personnel who are not being recoupled and who are being paid illegally. The government can't pass the money to those who don't deserve what our disabled and elderly citizens deserve, and then forgive this irregularity with stuff that's stuck in a bag of laws. This unjust practice is also a slave's right to believe, and it is a sin, and it is a social injustice to the legal state and social state principles. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0105par0179	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 86. The motions are the same. I'll read it, I'll process it together, and I'll promise it separately in the form of demand. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article 86 of the Common 639 Numbered Bill of Law, dated 4/2/1924, and under Article 4/6 of the Telegraph and Telephone Law, which envisions changes in Article 33 additional. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Hasip Kaplan Sebahat Tuncel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 86 of the Law Bill be removed from the draft text of Article 86 of the Law shall be changed under some Law and Law. Erkan Akçay S. Nevzat Korkmaz Kemalettin Yilmaz Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Mustafa Kalaycı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Numbered Business Law and the amendment to certain Laws and Laws shall be made to be adopted from the draft text of Article 86 of the Charter. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Haluk Eyidoğan Fatma Nur Serter Haydar Akar Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0106par0207	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0105par0208	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0107par0209	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0105par0210	The first speaker is Free Special, Manisa MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0108par0213	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've been promised to discuss our motion on the 86th article of bag number 639. The dams in the mouth of the furnace where the accident occurred ten days ago have been removed, as far as the mines can be done, the furnaces have been handed over to the company, saying there is no new legal process to do. We all know that one of the Soma Inc's closed furnaces is preparing to open at any moment. What's worse is that since Soma has no agricultural income, we're all going through a process in Soma where people are condemned to mines because they don't have enough industrial investments, and they're worried that if the mines don't open soon, they'll be out of work and they won't be able to bring bread to their homes. Just two or two months ago, all of Manisa, all of Turkey, the Republican People's Party, the AKP, the MP, the People's Party, the People's Party, all of us together, we were crying and crying and moaning and swearing that we would never make such a mistake again. We won't have to let our children, our brothers and sisters land in these mines again until the mines are safe. If it's work safety, if it's work safety, if it's labor health, we have to take whatever measures need to be taken to prevent work accidents. If the coal miner in Germany didn't have death in his body, he shouldn't have been in Turkey either. If there have been no fatal accidents in Germany for 50 years, we will do whatever it takes to prevent it from happening in Turkey. Now that we have arrived, our sons, our brothers, the only lambs of the mothers, the only husbands of the wives, are forced to return to the mine. So, what did we do in those days, crying and swearing? Quite frankly, it's nothing! I'd like to underline that here. Where the process brought us, whatever we claimed about Soma as the Republican People's Party, whatever we've established in the Council's research commission, in the presence of stenographers, in the official records, all of our claims have been filed into the transcripts, the authorities, and it's been confirmed. We told you about the headman system, it's on the record. The training was on paper, that's how it was recorded. From the carbon monoxide masks to the running of diesel vehicles underground, from the abuse of the underground to the come-on system and forced-to-do rallying, whatever we said on this stand or in public, they've all gone to the police. Well, we've expressed them, we can't explain them, but I suppose everyone would hand over the fact that we're liars to the Minister. It was Turkey's safest mine, which exploded and was the scene of Turkey's biggest business accident. Now this mine or another mine of this company or the mine next to it will continue to work. All right, let's ask: In Eynez, the tape did not go up in flames, so the fire surrounded the whole place. Is there a non-flammable tape now? There's no such thing. They died of a carbon monoxide mask. Did we put an oxygen mask on the law? We couldn't. There were shelters missing from the ground, did they do it? They didn't. The plastic pipes caught fire, we couldn't bring in fresh air. Are there other mines? None of them have it. We were missing a tracking system that showed the worker's whereabouts in the mine at the time. There's one in Germany, so let's take it. All right? It never, never happened. But, on the one hand, in a mine that wanted to be opened, according to the president of the Business Investigation Board's statement, the sensors that measured the toxic gases inside were tried to be deceived by bypassing and blowing fresh air from the outside, even by the government's controllers. The same culture, the same understanding may try to bring our children to their deaths again. We have submitted joint motions to the Soma commission: let all opposition parties report that we have identified their shortcomings so far, whether it is immediately legal or secondary, third-legal legislation is completed by ministries. Finally, these motions have been rejected. At the coming point, the safer the Eynez mine was on the morning of May 13th, the safer all the mines that are now working or asking for permission to work. We're about to send our children to their deaths once again with our own hands. The last time I spoke to the ruling party who felt the regret of saying no to the research commission, please consider once again the necessary measures, and I am deeply concerned that a new disaster is at the door.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0109par0223	Thank you. The other speaker is Mr. Necati Özensoy, Mr. Bursa MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0110par0227	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion to the esteemed MPs. I salute you all. In all these talks, in this bag of law, in the laws of the past, we see that you know very well -- the most appreciated part of you -- to protect crime, criminal, corruption by law. Look, the examples are... the collection of coals distributed to the poor by TKI until 2011 is an institution that is subject to the Court's Law on Public Contraction, which you can't take directly -- you can't get the coal that costs 160 lira at that time -- but you can't get it directly from the fields with the law taken out, which has the right to redevelopment and cont. It's covered by the law. By the way, the privatisation of the links came back in the bag of legislation. In fact, if I hadn't interfered, the number 2840 Law would have been open to privatisation of the boron and all other mines. You just took care of it with one item. You've wiped out 676 million debt from the capital gas. Again, by adding $500 million to his balance sheet with a piece of paper in the bag, you made it easier for him to sell, and you gave it to the buyer. Even though the Prime Minister said the offer to the capital gas was low, it was registered with that number. Again, as described at 4+4+4, those arguments were completely... at first, out of nine billion in purchases. Again, you legitimized the talks with the PKK just before that law. What are you doing with this stuff now? Again, in those suggestions brought by the Court, you add a clause to eliminate investigations carried out by the Transport Ministry Investigation Board, which is those investigations expressed in the 2012 report. Here's what the 31st article here is, by keeping the TÜRKSAT, which is not already subject to those proceedings of the Public Relations Agency, again, in violation of Article 31, which is the 31st article of the Constitution, which is: to those assigned to the Board of Directors and Directors of the Board of Directors of Laws, to those who are appointed to the Board of Directors, to those who are appointed to the Board of Directors of Public Affairs, to the Court of Public Affairs, and to those who have been appointed to the Court of Public Affairs, to the Court of Law and to those who have been appointed to those who have been appointed to them, in accordance with the Court of Law, in accordance with the Court of Law, in accordance with the Court of Justice of Justice of the Commission, the Commission, to remove the Commission's provisions of the Court of Justice, to be paid in violation of the Court of Justice, in accordance with Article 31. Other than that, the third proposal is the same: the amount of monthly fees and other payments stated by the High Planning Board each year; the payment imposed, bonus, bonus, provision, and such payments are closed by the Supreme Planning Board, according to Article 399, and the above-the-level section of the Court of Law shall not be presented to those concerned within a month, according to Article 34. God bless your country, everyone!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0111par0238	Thank you. The other speaker... Mr. Kaplan, who will speak?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0112par0241	Motive...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit04spe0111par0242	I'm reading the reason: Many articles discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission have been submitted into the draft text by violation of the Civil Code and the Constitution. This bill, envisioned to be about the miners we lost in Soma, should then be added to a large number of non-related substances, the legislative technique, the Civil Code, and constitutionally, subject to the right legal process. With change, these problems are intended to be resolved. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit to your votes the 86th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 86th article has been accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0111par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 130th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The Commission and the Government are here. There are three motions on article 87: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 87 of Law Bill 639 be changed as follows. Erkan Akçay S. Nevzat Korkmaz Kemalettin Yilmaz Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Özcan Yeniçeri ADDE 87-22/12/1934 has been added to deed number 2644. The State is responsible for all the damage caused by the holding of its Tapu record. The government is the one who purposely causes the damage to happen to the officers. In addition to this, the damage caused by negligence is compensated for the funds created within the institution without paying off the officer. Due to payments on the deed and cadastro transactions due to the state's perfect responsibility, the motions for the graft against neglected personnel have expired for two years since the payment date, since the process, which has caused damage in any case, has expired by ten years. Article 73 of the Turkish Law of Debts No. 6098, dated 11/1/2011, is kept for personnel with heavy defects. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the following amendments to Article 87 of the current 639 Numbered Bill of the Law. Mehmet Ali Sesame Rahmi Love Türeli Levent Gök Sakine Öz Ayşe Nedret Akova ADDE 87-22/12/1934 has been added to deed number 2644. Due to payments made due to the state's perfect responsibility for the EK MADDE 2- deed and cadastro transactions, the motions to initiate against neglected personnel have been delayed for two years since the payment date, however, the ten years have passed since the process that has caused damage. Article 73 of the Turkish Law on Debts No. 6098, dated 11/1/2011, is reserved for people with a defect-based responsibility." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Numbered Bill of Legislature, which was dated 22/12/1934, be removed from the draft text of Article 87, which stipulates to add additional items to deed number 2644. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Hasip Kaplan Sebahat Tuncel Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0113par0032	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0111par0033	Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. Who will speak on the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0114par0036	Motive.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0111par0037	I'm reading the reason: Many articles discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission have been submitted into the draft text by violation of the internal and constitutional code. This bill, which is supposed to be about the miners we lost in Soma, should then be added to a large number of non-controversial substances, legislation, and constitutionally compromised and subject to a proper legal process. With change, these problems are intended to be resolved. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 87 of the 639 Numbered Bill of Law be changed in the following way. Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends ADDE 87-22/12/1934 has been added to deed number 2644. Due to payments made due to the state's perfect responsibility for the EK MADDE 2- deed and cadastro transactions, the motions to initiate against neglected personnel have been delayed for two years since the payment date, however, the ten years have passed since the process that has caused damage. Article 73 of the Turkish Law on Debts No. 6098, dated 11/1/2011, is reserved for people with a defect-based responsibility." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0115par0049	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0111par0050	Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Mehmet Ali Sesame will speak on the motion, İzmir MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0116par0055	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this motion is a motion made to further clarify the matter regarding the state of heavy defect. I'd like to share with you a recent incident from this bench, which I've come up with through this motion: The Justice and Development Party Group has proposed a amendment in Article 84. What are the amendments for? It is given for a improvement at the point where legal regulations discussed in the commission can be reached with compromise. This Commission has worked for months, making decisions, making them a book, and coming down here, we're talking. Look, folks, the motion has been made to change a situation regarding the tradesman in the Commission. In Article 4/a, the insurance period of Article 4 of the Law (1) (b) was included in the article. It has just been discussed in Article 84 that those who have retired from office and have been rehired have earned an unfair profit and are not paid for it. We've brought forgiveness for them, but we've taken away a right to the tradesmen who have been accepted here in the Commission, and we've taken out the (1)th joke of the matter, and we've continued to apply it to the other insurance people who started the (1)th joke of the 60th article. I asked the Commissioner Vedat Demiröz, and I said, "Why did you take it out, brother?" I said, "Ya, there are few others, there are many of them." This brings burden. I mean, we don't give them their rights because they're too many, because it's not enough for them to be right, but we'll give all the rights to the people we've appointed, who've retired, who've taken the wrong money. You see the BUG-KUR, the tradesman and artist as second-class citizens. You see them as people who are supposed to be ignored, who are normally lacking rights. That's the way it is with all social security services, when you're giving pensions to all other social security members, the 4/A/A-A-A people, to the 4/C-L people, on a business day of 7,200 days, you're retiring the BUG-KUR people in 9,000 days. The pensions of the BUG-KUR are minimal and maximum. At the end of the second 61 days, if they don't pay the premium, they can't benefit from health care. But, even though the insurance premiums that we bring back in this law, which are not paid by employers in municipalities -- months and years -- are not paid by employers today, everyone is taking advantage of health care, but the shopkeeper can't get services at the end of 61 days, and performs health care while being grounded. Likewise, the unfairly paid officers receive their pardon today, and when this tradesman works, 15 per cent of their social security benefits are cut. Dear friends, these injustices have been made a law here, and new burdens are being placed on the BUG-KUR. When you say we're going to make people easier with this bag of laws, you're going to re-sign the BUG-KURL people to second-class tradesmen, second-class people -- artists and artists. I present this to all tradesmen, tradesmen and publicists from these microphones, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0117par0062	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 87 of Law Bill 639 be changed as follows. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends The following article has been added to Article 2644, dated 87 ▪ 22/12/1934. The State is responsible for all the damage caused by the holding of its Tapu record. The government is the one who purposely causes the damage to happen to the officers. In addition to this, the damage caused by negligence is compensated for the funds created within the institution without paying off the officer. Regarding the deed and cadastro transactions, due to payments made due to the state's perfect responsibility, the motions to start against neglected personnel have been delayed by two years since the payment date, since the process, which has caused damage in any case, has been delayed by ten years. Article 73 of the Turkish Law of Debts No. 6098, dated 11/1/2011, is kept for personnel with heavy defects. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0118par0074	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0117par0075	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Erkan Akçay will speak on the motion, Congressman of Manisa. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0119par0080	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made in Article 87. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, under the principle of the responsibility of the state, the records on the deed must be in harmony with the actual legal situation. However, despite all the attention and care of the employees, there may be a lack of information or error in the record or a lack of actual legal status, and as a result, rights owners or third persons may be harmed. The damage can also undermine the trust of not only the rightful owners, but the public's record of the deed. Therefore, it is clearly and clearly arranged by law that the state should be responsible for the damage done to the citizens who have been damaged from these misdeeds so that the deed is not lost in credibility. According to Article 1007 of the Turkish Civil Law, the State is responsible for all the damage caused by keeping the registration of the Tapu. The state gives respite to officers who have a flaw in the birth of harm. The statute of limitations is set on the time-out process against the employees of Tapu and Kadastro. According to this, due to payments on the Tapu and the cadastro transactions due to the state's perfect responsibility, the motions to initiate against the neglected personnel will be timed for two years from the date of the payment date, since the process that has caused the damage has been done. It's not a big deal so far. This is a positive arrangement for efforts to bring a partial solution to the serious problems of Tapu and Kadastro personnel over the years. Alone, dear friends, rights and kindness, justice and consistency fall to all parts of society, primarily those who govern the state. As we are on the eve of the August 10th election process, I benefit from reminiscing some of the issues that are in Turkey's Grand National Assembly's transcripts, files, and time-to-time agendas and information into the conscience and knowledge of our beloved nation. Can you imagine, for twelve years, you're going to run the state because of the public duties you're running and the public resources you're using, embezzling money on you; counterfeiting in public transport tickets; resetting money in official documents; building pools with businessmen; building responsibility for criminalry; praising crime and criminal; provoking people to hatred and hostility; inciting people; Alo Fatih; collaborating with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK); and all those who claim to sit down with them; and accusing those who claim to sit down with Kurdistan (PKK); eliminating money; creating pools with the ISIS terrorist organization; and all kinds of support for all kinds of ethnicity; and all kinds of ethnicism; and all of those who say so --and-so-called --and-and-involved shoes; all of them --and-and-and-and-and-and-and-so-and-and-and-and-and-so-so-and-so-so-and-and-so-and-and-and-so-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-so-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-so-so-so-and-and-and-so-and-so-so-and-and-and-and-so-and-so-so-so-and-so-and-and-and-and-so-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-so-and-and-and-so-and-and-and-and-and-and-s. Who's going to get all this corruption? So, these guys are gonna get away with it? The latest is the use of the fake polling compass we had in Turkey's Grand National Assembly the other day. Is there anything defendable about that? I wonder what the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the ruling party group will do about it. Let alone two MPs in the Assembly General Assembly, although outside Ankara, the fake, non-registered signatures and roll-call ballots are being issued and included in the inspection. What more can we say, it stinks of salt, everything's fucked up. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0120par0087	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 88: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current Law Bill 639 rows is 88. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Haydar Akar Osman Oktay Soşi Article 88: 15/7/1950 and Passport Law 5682. The third joke of the article was added to the service coordinators for the service following the declaration. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 88 of Law Bill 639 be changed as follows. Erkan Akçay S. Nevzat Korkmaz Kemalettin Yilmaz Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Özcan Yeniçeri Article 88 - 15/7/1950, article 13 of the Passport Law has been changed in the following way. "Diplomatic passports are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its embassies and embassies of the Republic of Turkey in foreign countries. Diplomatic passports are given to those who go on a regular mission or travel, according to the nature of their duties or travel, or to those who go on a journey for a maximum two years, or to those who go on a permanent mission during the time of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. (Change: 28/5/1988 - 3463/1 md.) Diplomatic passports to members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to ministers who are not members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to ministers of the Constitutional Court and members of the Supreme Court, to the Supreme Court, to the General Secretary of the Military Supreme Administration, to the Chief of Staff, to the Chief of Staff, to the Chief of State, to the Presidents of the Republic, to the Presidents of the Parliament, to the Presidents of the Parliament, to the former prime ministers of the Constitution, and to the former ministers of foreign affairs, to the General Secretary of the Parliament, to the Secretary of the President of the Grand Assembly of Turkey, to the Prime Minister of Turkey, to the Prime Minister of the Parliament, to the Chief of Ministers, to the President of Foreign Affairs, to the Presidents of Foreign Affairs, to the Presidents and to the Presidents of the Union, to the Presidents of Turkey, to the Presidents of Turkey, to the Presidents of Turkey, to the Presidents of Turkey, to the Presidents of Turkey, to the Turkish Parliament, to the Turkish Parliament, to the Presidents and to the Presidents and to the Presidents, to the Presidents of the President of the Turkish Parliament, to the Presidents of the Presidents and to the Turkish Parliament, to the Presidents and to the Presidents of the Presidents of Turkey. to the Presidents and to the Presidents, to the Presidents and to the Presidents of the President of Turkey, to the Presidents of the Presidents of the Union, to the President of the President of Turkey, to the President of Turkey, to the President of the President of the President of Turkey. (Change: 25/2/1981 - 2418/1 md.) It is possible for anyone who is able to obtain a diplomatic passport or who has received an adjective or adjectives to be granted diplomatic passports, even to their spouses, or to be registered in the escort house of their wives' passports. (Different fifth joke: 23/7/2010-6009/58 md.) As long as those who receive diplomatic passports continue to receive adjectives and duties, their children who are underage or immature, who are not married and have no job are granted a valid diplomatic passport, the same length of time as the passport of the person who is not married to them, even if they are still adults, and who is not married, and who is not married, and who is also in need of constant care because of at least one of their physical, mental or mental or mental barriers. Diplomatic passports, owners, or those registered in the house of escorts need to conduct a continent photo. Diplomatic passports are not subject to any tuition or painting." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the 88th article of the current Law Bill 639 rows, dated 15/7/1950, under the 13th Amendment of the Passport Law. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Hasip Kaplan Sebahat Tuncel Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0121par0120	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0120par0121	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0122par0124	In fact, I've been looking for female parliamentarians all day long. I've just spoken, and I've been waiting for an answer from female parliamentarians, both your power and your opposition, but I see there's no sound. Of course, I'll just... [[The preacher played a recording with an electronic device]] This is the Baghdad Parliament. There's an Ezidi woman speaker named Vian Dakhil. Listen carefully, he calls for mankind and says: "Those who say, 'Allah is God' cut off the heads of men and slay them.'" He doesn't say Ezdi, he doesn't say Ashuri, he doesn't say Turkmen, he says "Muslim," he says Alevi, they slaughter where they go. And in parliament, in Iraq, a parliamentary parliamentarian Vian Dakhil is committing crimes against humanity. He says and calls. We wonder which president heard these cries and spoke in the squares. In a parliament like this, 20km south of Zaho, they made 500 women their concubines. Look, be careful, a man who says, "I am a man of religion, a man of conscience," has to come out here and say two words. I swear to God I'll do these massacres...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0123par0129	Don't shout!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0122par0130	...have they anything to say to those who have committed the 73rd massacre of Ezidi, the Assyrians, the Turkmen and the Kurds? That's the whole point.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0124par0131	Damn it!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0122par0132	Curse us all together, and we'll curse them all.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0124par0133	Cursed be all the oppressors!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0122par0134	We curse and curse those who have committed these massacres, those who have unleashed these gangs, those who stand behind these gangs, those who support these gangs!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0124par0135	Damn all the tyrants, damn them all, including the PKK!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0125par0136	Please don't talk to the speaker.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0122par0137	We curse everyone who supports them. Now, one more thing that's very clear. Here's a passport issue related to the 88th article, diplomatic passport, green passport, under the name of the Din coordinators. His lawyer goes to Strasbourg court, he can't get a passport; college professors go abroad for science; he can't get passports; former mayors of the city can't get them; but do you ever wonder how many of these diplomatic passports you're going to give under the name of the co-ordin coordinator's office, how many of these massacres, how many of them, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, do you think? Have fear of God. Have fear of God, I say to you. Do you ever wonder who's going to buy these diplomatic passports? You know, being an elementary school graduate is enough to be a religious coordinator. It's so low, so limitless, so reckless, so middle, so, so... you can't put that kind of stuff in the law, you guys! You see that you live every day. In Rojava, in Kobani...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0126par0140	Tell me about Turkey.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0122par0141	...now in Mosul, now in Shengal, Sincar, I have read the document of those who committed this massacre, the ministry's generality on this stand. Is there any one who denies and denies the Day of Judgment? No. He said to support these groups of jihadists. Now, the government must return from this error. Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is running for president, needs to come out and say two words to these ISIN gangs in the squares. Where do they get the courage to attack everywhere with such daring, who do they get their support from? Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Israel, America, Turkey? Who's involved, and why are the hostages still at the consulate in Mosul, your own consuls and citizens? Someone has to come out and answer that, and in the name of humanity, this House needs to say two things, in the face of the understanding that the Speaker and all of the MPs are all women's concubines, heads, arms, and hearts are being eaten raw. Are you with him or behind him? That's the whole point.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0127par0143	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 88 of Law Bill 639 be changed as follows. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Article 13 of Passport Law No. 5682 dated 88-15/7/1950 has been changed as follows. "Diplomatic passports are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its embassies and embassies of the Republic of Turkey in foreign countries. Diplomatic passports are given to those who go on a regular mission or travel, according to the nature of their duties or travel, or to those who go on a journey for a maximum two years, or to those who go on a permanent mission during the time of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. (Change: 28/5/1988 - 3463/1 md.) Diplomatic passports to members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to ministers who are not members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to former presidents and members of the Constitutional Court, to the Supreme Court, to the Secretary-General of the Military Supreme Administration, to the Chief of State, to the Prime Minister, to the Prime Minister, to the Presidents of the Republic, to the Presidents, to the Presidents of the State, to the Presidents of Turkey, to the Presidents of the Union, to the President of Turkey, to the Presidents of the Union, to the Presidents of Turkey and to the former ministers of Foreign Affairs, to the President of the Presidents of the Republic, to the President of Turkey, to the President of Turkey, to the Presidents and to the Presidents of the Union, to the Presidents of Turkey, to the Presidents of the Union, to the Presidents of Turkey, to the Presidents of Turkey, to the Presidents of Turkey, to the Presidents of Turkey, to the Turkish Parliament, to the Presidents and to the Turkish Parliament, to the Presidents of Turkey, to the Presidents and to the Presidents, to the Presidents, to the Presidents and to the Presidents of Turkey. (Change: 25/2/1981 - 2418/1 md.) It is possible for anyone who is able to obtain a diplomatic passport or who has received an adjective or adjectives to be granted diplomatic passports, even to their spouses, or to be registered in the escort house of their wives' passports. [[The fifth different joke: 23/7/2010-6009/58 md.) As long as those who receive diplomatic passports continue to receive adjectives and duties, their children who are underage or immature, who are not married and have no job are granted a valid diplomatic passport, the same length of time as the passport of the person who is not married to them, even if they are still adults, and who is not married, and who is not married, and who is also in need of constant care because of at least one of their physical, mental or mental or mental barriers.]] [[1]] Diplomatic passports, owners, or those registered in the house of escorts need to conduct a continent photo. Diplomatic passports are not subject to any tuition or painting." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0128par0161	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0127par0162	The government... We don't agree, Mr. President. Isparta MP Nevzat Korkmaz will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0129par0165	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first I pay my respects. We're going through a presidential election process. Sometimes there are those who are bewitched by the magic of the squares, who have forced their private doors, who have denied what they said in the past, who have said a great deal of things, and have insulted them. One is AKP Vice President Süleyman Soylu. He's describing the National Movement Party as metrics. In the past, he has insulted the AKP and Erdogan, and is now throwing insults at the nationalist Movement Party at the ruling gate, where he has taken refuge with his desire for power and future. Erdogan, on the one hand, is cute as my country brothers, and his assistant shows their true faces by insulting an entire community. Those who teach this country political mistressy are obvious. Today, political mistresses are the ones who entered power's bed in exchange for honey-smelling interests while insulting the AKP and Erdogan yesterday. In front of their heads, they should be walking in shame, but today they're being condemned and political assassins. They're the ones who sell their parties and ride the train of blessings when they're president. They're off the hook. See what this person said yesterday: the Prime Minister wants to be king. We're gonna show this government the root of shit. The government is in the pit of corruption. Shall I continue?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0130par0169	Meat, meat.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0129par0170	Oh, for crying out loud, Prime Minister. You're a bad influence on our children. Yes, this poor Zat came from the Democratic Party's General Staff, who died yesterday for democracy and national will in Turkey. He's the dwarf leader of a big tree. Get well soon to my Democratic brothers. I wish the AKP a good man who will land at the first stop tomorrow and sell you as well. Use it from top to bottom. That's not all that's wrong with your mouth. Ekmel Beye, the common candidate of the nation, says "The son of the king," and says "The professor of the king." One of you can't say, "Pick up your mouth." No mistake in the analogy, fellas, the horse, according to its owner, is a quichner. It's only natural for the AKP's deputy to do so, while the public's president of the AKP is making insults to those who come in front of him. Candidate Erdogan calls the other candidates sold. He says, "No spine, ungrateful, pot, monshere."
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0131par0173	Why don't you listen to what your president has to say?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0129par0174	And he's doing it by doing propaganda like a king's king's king's king's son on a bus with the money of the state and of the nation. The presidency, dear friends, is in the pocket. He put up a mortgage on people's will. You never think he won't win. And if he doesn't win tomorrow, will he throw the bridges with the presidency? With what face will he ascend to Çankaya, and to Mr. Ihsanoglu? What kind of government is that? He says we brought you there. Who brought you there? Guys.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0132par0175	Guys.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0129par0176	May the people bring Ekmeleddin Bey there. If you mean task or support, who appointed Mr. Erdoğan to establish the government? Ahmet Necdet Sezer.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0133par0177	Who did the MP? Baykal.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0129par0178	Then did Ahmet Necdet Sezer bring you there? He sees himself in Mount Qaf. That's how it is when you're Prime Minister, God forbid. While Ihsanoglu, the gentleman's personality, in his gentle manner, does not respond to these insults, Erdogan is increasing the dose of insults. As this law came out, all the parties said: "There will be a feast of democracy. The national will will decide directly to the head of the state, or the President. Look at what happened: Candidate Erdogan has stretched the nation out like a Teftar.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0134par0180	You're the one who's nervous.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0129par0181	If I don't become president, let the people burn, let the people fall. He says, "Alevi-Sunni," he says, "Kurd-Turk-Zaza."
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0134par0182	Let's not make a distinction.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0129par0183	What kind of mercy is this, what kind of revelation is this? Will you not fear God when you have separated the people? I would like to remind Erdogan that this state is not a tribal state, and this nation is not a rootless, floating lotus flower. You and your government, in the Turkish history of history, would only be a speck of water.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0135par0184	Three days to go, three.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0136par0185	That's what they see when they can't be themselves.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0129par0186	By the destruction and destruction you have done, and by the will of the Turkish nation, on August 10th, I hope you will be vaporized.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0137par0187	People will give you an answer.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0138par0188	People will answer.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0129par0189	Stop that language as soon as possible. What you're doing is not for the good of the people. Either you fix your apology to the people, or this people, on August 10th, they're going to end the cycle anyway, and there's no escaping it. I salute the great nation.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0139par0192	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of the current Law Bill 639 rows is 88. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends Article 88: 15/7/1950 and Passport Law 5682. The third joke of the article was added to the service coordinators for the service following the declaration. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0140par0200	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0139par0201	Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. İstanbul MP İhsan Özkes will speak on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0141par0206	Mr. President, I have made a promise on Article 88 of the agreed-upon bag of legislation. I salute you all. There are photos of the Prime Minister in some mosques of the Alexandrian, Skopjedar, and Sultangazi, for propaganda for the presidential elections.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0142par0208	It's not the mosque, it's on its way.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0141par0209	Can't you see, mosque!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0143par0210	Don't lie, but don't lie!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0141par0211	You're good at lying, you're good at lying!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0144par0212	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0141par0213	Recep, it's like an imam in a mosque! No president, no imam. Can Imam tell you that theft is forbidden?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0145par0214	Speak well of your language! Your Prime Minister is what you call Tayip. Speak well!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0141par0215	Whether you're a Sunni or a Flame, be human first, and not a thief.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0146par0216	Be a human being!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0147par0217	Look at you!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0148par0218	Are you the man to measure his humanity?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0149par0219	Allah will not ask whether you are Alevi or Sunni, but he will surely ask about theft and corruption.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0148par0221	Sir, he's talking dirty, be human." It says...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0150par0222	Congressmans, what are you pointing at? I don't hear anything.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0151par0223	He's speaking against the law.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0150par0224	I don't hear anything, but you're yelling.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0152par0225	Upon a question asked whether the prayers of the Prophet would be accepted from him who goes on a pilgrimage, our beloved Prophet (Muhammad SAW) will travel a long journey, and his hair will be scattered, and his head will be covered with dust, and he will raise his hand to the sky and pray, "My Lord, O my Lord, what he eats is forbidden, and what he eats is forbidden, and what he eats is forbidden. How can God accept such a person's prayer? An old minister sued me for reading the report. In fact, not me, but the coming of the Holy Prophet Muhammad, our beloved Prophet Muhammad, was brought to trial. The verse on theft, the reading of events, is now forbidden in this country? The Prime Minister exploits religion by dating the Koran, but he doesn't mind burning the Jaferi mosque and the Qur'an. I've even written a book called Cami Lies, and you're doing politics through mosques. Well, Jaferi mosque, isn't it the mosque? Isn't it the mosque that ISIS terrorists burned down and destroyed in Iraq and Syria? For Muhammad's sake, he was proud of the conquest of Mecca, and we will not be proud of him. Speaking in the words of Minister of the Interior, Efkan Alaίya, you insult Ahmet Hoxha of the Cübbe, you will not be like the Prophet, you are a greater man than the Prophet, so Allah has warned the Prophet, how ignorant you are, how ignorant you are, the most ignorant of the earth? You can't say that to my prophet. Why aren't you reacting, texting, e-mailing? You have no place of rest, nor does the Messenger turn away from you. It will not save you from God, nor will it save you. You insult the Prophet. For one thing, where does this man's ignorance come from? And he said, "That's outrageous." I know that he loves the Holy Prophet, instead of telling the minister who defamed the Prophet. That's why I don't talk about it. He tried to justify it, as he didn't have the guts to say it. Shame on you! In the election logo of Recep Tayyip, the name of our beloved Prophet was written in Arabic, says a minister. If the logo says "Hazreti" Mohammed...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0153par0228	It's advertising, advertising.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0154par0229	By God, someone from CHP is logoing, it's amazing!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0155par0230	Mr. Speaker, please do not display any ads from the podium.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0156par0231	...why is the name of Muhammad after the rally underfoot? Have you no fear of God? Don't you have the love of the prophet? After the rally, if it says "Muhammad," why is he walking underfoot?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0157par0232	You're high, you're high!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0156par0233	Tomorrow in peace, holy Muhammad...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0157par0234	You're high, you're going up, Hodja! You're high.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0156par0235	Why did you use my name in your dirty politics? What will you say to him?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0158par0236	How did this mufti...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0156par0237	Don't be afraid of God.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0159par0239	What suffering, what suffering, what suffering, what woe!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0156par0240	...no love for His Grace Muhammad?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0160par0241	Mr. Ozkes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0156par0242	Can the name of Muhammad be used to corrupt, devouring, lying politics?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0161par0243	It's gone, it's gone! Yeah, he flew, he flew.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0162par0244	Time's up, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0163par0245	Mr. Speaker, your time is up.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0164par0246	But they shut me up, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0163par0247	Your time for conversation is over, Mr. Ozkes, please.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0165par0248	Come on, it's gone. There's no such thing. Come on.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0164par0249	I need a minute.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0165par0250	It's a shame about the seniors.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0166par0251	Mr. Ozkes, your time is up, please.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0164par0252	Be fair, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0167par0253	Sir, they haven't said a word about the motion.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0168par0254	Your time is up, sir. It's gone, it's gone.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0169par0255	Mr. Ozkes, would you please take your seat, your time is up.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0170par0256	Okay. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0171par0259	What was the motion, the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0172par0260	Come on, he's gone! He's going up to the sky.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0173par0261	Come on, teacher, don't talk to me, come on. They just yell at him, come on.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0174par0262	May Allah make you crawl on the earth.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0172par0263	He'll make you crawl, you. The evil word belongs to the owner. You flew, you flew!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0175par0264	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 89: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 89 of Law Bill 639 be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Sumer Oral Münir Kutluata It has been changed to the mayors and mayors and mayors of the cities of the capital city status, who have earned first-degree pension with the public officials who have been appointed to the 14th Article (A) of Law 89, 5682 (a). Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 89 of Law Bill 639 be changed in the following way. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Ayşe Nedret Akova Levent Gök Haydar Akar The "public officials" of Articles 89-5682 of the Law (A) have been replaced as "public officials and mayors who have earned first-degree pension and faculty members of the foundation universities," and the following joke has been added. "As of last year's income, the first, second and third heads of institutions in the provinces of the year-long institution tax, and the first and third heads of institutions across Turkey, the first, second and third heads of the income tax, and the executive directors of firms who have held at least thirty million dollars or exchanges in the previous calendar, are issued a valid passport, as a matter of one year, as a matter of concern to the top 250 taxpayers across Turkey, according to the fact that they have paid at least the first installment of the tax. Specially stamped passports expired are possible to be renewed at the same time. It is imperative that this right be used the year it is earned. The procedure and basis for the removal of passports, notifications, and the cancellation of passports are identified by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs and Finance ministries under the above paragraph." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 89 of Act 5682 from the bill's text, which stipulates a change in Article 14 of Law 639. İdris Bauken Nazmi Gür Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0176par0290	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0175par0291	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Erol Dora will speak on the motion, Mardin MP.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0177par0294	Mr. President, before I speak, I salute the General Assembly. I'm not going to discuss the motion, even though I have made a commitment to the motion. As you know, there are some very important developments in our geography today. I take it it's my duty and responsibility to have such a conversation. You know, on June 8th, ISIS, its gang invaded Mosul, and Kurds, Arabs - Ashuri - Suryani, Keldanis, Armenians, Turks, Shabaks and Ezidis who lived in the region sought refuge in relatively safer areas. The Barbarian ISIS organisation has become increasingly a danger to the entire Middle East with its support. It is clear that this created monster will soon pose great dangers for the governments who have supported him and are giving him their support. In Iraq, despite the ongoing massacres and murders in Syria, and the persecution of the Palestinian people in Gaza, we are primarily observing the insensitiveness of the United Nations, the United States and the European Union, on the other hand, of all the neighbouring nations and their double standard attitude towards human crimes. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as seen in recent horror photographs, Middle Eastern geography has become a natural killing field. The demographic map of the Middle East is changing. The ancient peoples of the region, their culture and beliefs, are being completely wiped out of their homes, and no one's making a sound. In the Middle East, human blood has been made cheaper than water or oil. Dear lawmakers, it is well known that the Islamic world and all its values and gains are at stake. It is not only the Kurds, the Kurds, the Turkmen, the Arabs, the Turks, the Shiites, the Alevis, the Muslims, the Muslims, the Muslims, the Muslims, who have not received the tolerance of Islam and have become a pawn of imperialism, but all must stand up and stand up against the barbarism of ISIS. All political parties, especially in power, must be more sensitive and equal in their domestic and foreign policy and rhetoric, to be able to develop an approach and attitude that emphasizes the brotherhood and peace between cultures, beliefs and peoples, and does not alter any ethnic culture and belief. Now, I'd like to bring you the latest updates from Iraq. The Kurdistan Patriots Association calls the world from the mountains of Shengal Basime Shengali, who is in charge of the Shengal Women's Arms. ▪ The whole world must hear our screams. If you see the persecution, the brutality of the people of Ezidi, and it can sting even a little bit, then your conscience calls out to us, "Don't be silent in this massacre." We, the Ezidis, have been through 72 massacres so far. Today's 73 is practiced in the name of Islam in front of the whole world, which has nothing to do with Islam. ▪ Don't be silent about our cry! Viyan Daxil, an MP who responded to the brutal massacres of the Ezidi Kurds in the mountains of the Shengal, is all humanity in the people of Ezidi. He wants to prevent the massacre in tears: "Rescue us! Save us! We are being massacred in the district of Şengal, where Daxil, who has brought up the massacres in order to elect the country's new prime minister. Please, brothers, let's put all political differences aside. Stay with us as human beings. I speak for humanity. Please save us! He calls out: "Save us! Now, when we look at these events, in the world today, as you know, there is a United Nations established after World War II; its goal is to prevent wars, to protect human rights, but today there is no sound from the United Nations. The European Union, which boasts of Copenhagen Kriters, has not heard anything. There is no sound from the United States, nor from the United States, who is considered to be an apostle of democracy and human rights. At this point, our government has not made any statement about this, including other ethnic groups, but we, the Middle Eastern people and the peoples of the world, are watching all of this, and we're going to write down their notes in history. In this respect, we invite everyone to be sensitive again at this point. I repeat these developments in the Middle East, and I salute the General Assembly again, that everyone should make a sound of these screams.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0178par0301	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 89 of Law Bill 639 be changed in the following way. Osman Oktay Soshi (Istanbul) and his friends The "public officials" of Articles 89-5682 of the Law (A) have been replaced as "public officials and mayors who have earned first-degree pension and faculty members of the foundation universities," and the following joke has been added. "As of the previous year's income, the first, second and third heads of institutions in the provinces of the state, and the first and third institutions in Turkey, and the heads of the board of directors of the first and second and third in terms of income tax, the first, second and third in the provinces, and the managers of firms of companies who have made the most of the first 250 tax in Turkey, are given a stamp on the first installment of the tax, at least thirty million dollars or a year in the previous calendar. Specially stamped passports expired are possible to be renewed at the same time. It is imperative that this right be used the year it is earned. The procedure and basis for the removal of passports, notifications, and the cancellation of passports under the above paragraph are identified by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs and Finance Ministry. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0179par0311	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0178par0312	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Haydar Akar will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0180par0316	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, yes, there are 128 articles in this bag, but there are no ingredients in this bag that can solve the fundamental problems of society. Again, a provision of passports was issued in Article 89. Am I finding this right? I think it's true, actually. Should it be? It should be. But is it enough? It's not. Why? When you look, passports are given four types of passports in Turkey. One is a normal passport, which we give to all citizens, not to do public work, not to work in private, a passport that a normal citizen can get. The other is a private passport, which we call a green passport. Not in many countries, but there seems to be an exception to our country. We also have a diplomatic passport, which is called the red passport, which is a slightly more privileged passport. Again, there's a service passport. If the public works and short-term jobs go abroad in the name of the public, the service passports are issued here. There's not a lot of trouble in and out of this either. But there's something else: there's foundation colleges, right? Again, based on decisions made by the Parliament of the Republic of Turkey, there are foundation universities, which are subject to higher education, which are subject to their laws, which are autonomous only in financial and administrative operations, and there are faculty at these foundation universities. What's wrong with him? There's an investigator, an assistant, a doctor, an assistant, a professor, and when you look at public universities, there's people in the same position. The people who work there, the teachers who work there, the professors who work there, when they get to a certain degree, they get a green passport and they put their passports in their pockets, but at the foundation universities, they're also under control by the Republic of Turkey, and they can't take advantage of it, the faculty at the university, the professors at the university, whose rules are the same as state universities. It's not right. It's not just that. I worked in the private sector for years. Look, people in the private sector are not subject to 657. They don't count on me to put their backs to the state and go down to the 1st degree, to the 2nd degree, to the 3rd degree. There are many successful factory managers, very successful production managers, technical managers, general managers serving this state, working for years, exporting. These people, as if they weren't a man of this state, as if they weren't serving this state, a public manager is more reliable, but a general manager in the private sector isn't reliable, he can't get a green passport. Is that the way it's supposed to be? Because of my wife, because of my wife, because she was a teacher, I got a green passport because she fell to the third degree, and as my profession, it was written by the teacher's husband, the teacher's husband, as a teacher's husband, as a profession. Is that even possible? Why can't I get this green passport because I work in the private sector? That's a question to ask. All these private sectors... you boast of the export of Turkey. So in this motion, the Republican People's Party is in this motion, which, in fact, I'm a limited -- I'm a big fan of expanding -- factory managers, production managers, technical managers, engineers -- they can engineer for 30 years, they don't necessarily have to be managers, why can't they get that right? So you're going to lean on 657... we're run like a public state, we have a government understanding run by public staff. Is that an understanding? For years, people will serve, produce, find new things, contribute to the development of Turkey, but you'll say, "He doesn't work in public, this is not a reliable person, let's give him a normal passport. While I was going abroad on a green passport, my general manager had to get visas every week or every 15 days, every 20 days. Something like this isn't right. When a law is made for him, when something is added to the law, it must be investigated in all its details and done right. Again, we're missing here... with this proposal, I think we can complete some of it. So I would like you to agree to this motion and vote yes. Like I said, it's important. Especially the faculty at the foundation colleges... there are a lot of faculty among you, at the ruling party. They don't necessarily have to serve in the state, you can also serve in the universities of the foundation established by the state. The rights provided for him there should be given to those professors, professors, professors, research workers, if there is sufficient service time, and the criteria for this should be given to them in the same criteria as at public universities. Besides, you give it to the prosecutor, you give it to the judge, you don't give it to the third-foot lawyers on the same mission, which is not the right idea. So I say this law must be reconsidered, reviewed, and eliminated, and I give you all my respects.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0181par0324	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 89 of Law Bill 639 be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends It has been changed to the mayors and mayors and mayors of the cities of the capital city status, who have earned first-degree pension with the public officials who have been appointed to the 14th Article (A) of Law 89, 5682 (a). Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0182par0332	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0181par0333	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Mehmet Erdogan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0183par0338	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the amendment proposal on the 839th Article of the Bag Bill, which we are discussing. I hereby salute your high council. I'd like to make some point as we begin. The power, which abused Turkish nation's absorption for asylum in our country from Syria, showed the necessary generosity and tolerance for our Muslim brothers from Syria and allowed these guests to be scattered throughout the country without passports and without permission, despite the risk of breaking the social structure. Syrian refugees scattered all over our country are supplying illegal labor brokers. This increases unemployment that already exists in our country. However, the same government did not show this sensitivity to Turkishmen who fled Iraq, Syria, to escape the PYD persecution of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), who the Prime Minister feared to even call a terrorist organization, who fled the massacres of ISIS. The government has closed its eyes to ignore the massacres of the Turkmen, who once held the meetings of perverted terrorists within the country's borders. From God, there are people who hold their pride and consciousness in their hearts, who hold the morality and grace of Islam in their souls, who have delivered the help that the entire government cannot. There are some people in this country who have crossed the borders that AFAD could not cross, who have not said, "Allah forbid, we are under pressure from the PKK's patron Barzani." The Turkish nationalists who were worried about the problems of the Muslim brothers there, who felt the pain of the murdered babies at the bottom of their heart, were at their side. Turkish nationalists, who are accused of being morgue keepers by the underdogs of nationalism, do not know how to read Fatiha. In these difficult days, Turkish nationalists will continue to be with their Muslim brothers and relatives. On this occasion, I'd like to thank the National Institute for Education and Culture, which has worked to convey the help of the Turkish nation to our relatives in Kerkuk. Now, my dear friends, we all know the exit point of this bag of law. The work was launched with suggestions offered after the disaster, with proposals for a variety of changes in the law. We agree that some of the laws in the bag are essential, but we all see that some only contain cuteness for the presidential election. These changes are one of them. I mean, what does this change have to do with the relatives of our citizens who lost their lives in the disaster in Soma? What does this change have to do with the measures that need to be taken in the absence of new disasters? While one of the greatest sufferings lies in our nation's waiting for the victims of painful families to be removed, the measures needed to prevent new disasters, the unrelated, unrelated changes to the agenda, the unnecessary busyness of the parliamentary agenda delays the solution. Dear lawmakers, according to the existing Passport Law, employees and pensioners in the 1st, 2nd and 3rd-degree ranks are taking advantage of the green passport in accordance with the Law of State Officers No. 657. Only the current mayors and mayors are granted green passports, special stamped passports during their duties. If our goal here is to give retired mayors a special-marked passport, why is the condition for our elected mayors to retire from the 1st degree? So, after the duties of mayors and mayors who have the green passport to work are completed, they should be allowed to benefit from these rights as former mayors and should not cause any separation here. So the matter of the mayors, those who are related to Law 657, will be resolved, while others will not be able to benefit from it. Let's solve this mistake here while we can. Also, members of the city's general council and members of the city's municipal council, who have been devoted to all parts of our country, expect to be given green passports. Let's all solve this problem with our city council members and our city council members. Also, professors who serve at foundation universities cannot obtain green passports because they are not in official status. The problem must be resolved by the professors who attend many scientific studies at the foundation universities. These are people who serve as public officials, and these are many scientific gatherings in different parts of the world representing this country. Let's get them to take advantage of this right as soon as possible, including the presidents. I want to thank you all for these feelings.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0184par0346	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions in Article 90, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Sequential Bill of Law, dated 5/12/1951, be replaced by the 90th article, which envisions a change in Article 47 of Idea and Art Works of Art Law, "Turkish citizens in Turkey or outside Turkey," which has been announced since 1980, and has been forced out of the country due to political opposition to today." İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Hasip Kaplan Sebahat Tuncel Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. I'm going to make a request, one at a time. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the 90th article of the current Law Bill 639 rows be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay S. Nevzat Korkmaz Kemalettin Yilmaz Mesut Dedeoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Özcan Yeniçeri Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 90th draft of the Law Bill, 639 rows. We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Levent Gök Ayşe Nedret Akova Do you agree with the motions, Commission?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0185par0373	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0184par0374	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. İstanbul MP Oktay Soşi will talk about the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0186par0379	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs... Mr. President, first, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to share with the General Assembly a few thoughts on the position of the Presidential Court, especially the citizens, and, of course, my words will be directed directly at you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the position of other vice presidents I don't want to mention because they're not here and you're not in charge of the General Assembly seems to me as if they're not aware of what the General Assembly expects of them. I'd like to extend the carelessness of this matter to the attention of the General Assembly. From time to time, the vice presidents of the administration, the chairman of the General Assembly, who are where you sit, make statements that put themselves first. As a matter of fact, today, a respected MP asked you to speak to him, and you said to him, "I promise when I want to, but not if I don't want to."
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0187par0383	The president has discretion.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0186par0384	Your Honor, I don't think you have the right to make such a statement for two reasons. First of all, the statement is an exclusion of the Presidential Court. The Court of the Presidential Court is a whole with its clerks, with its deputy president, and the person who sits in the office of the vice president can only make a statement on behalf of the Presidential Court, and has no right to say, "I am." Secondly, I think you -- as far as I know -- your legal identity -- I'll give you your reasons for not making promises if I want to, not if I don't want to. It's necessary to stop you from saying that. You have the right to say, "I can't promise you this, only according to this Article of the Civil Code. " Other than that, statements in matters expressed in the name of the Presidential Court are not meant to be in such a way that if I want to or want to, I'll make the decision if I want to.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0188par0386	Mr. Sour, please come to the point. My first warning.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0186par0387	Mr. President, it's me...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0189par0388	The congressman talks as he pleases! What a warning!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0190par0389	He's very kind, Mr. President. Excuse me.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0186par0390	Mr. President, I believe the congressman has the right to speak, and you have the right to respect it.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0189par0391	Then get down from there.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0191par0392	Go ahead, please.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0192par0393	He's very kind, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0189par0394	Come on, warn me! You're used to it.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0193par0395	Respected President, the General Assembly is a rookie teacher...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0189par0396	They won't let you sit there with that management style of yours!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0193par0397	...to enter the naughty class and lead them in the manner of trying to discipline them.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0189par0398	And you're laughing like it's a big deal!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0193par0399	This is not appropriate for the structure of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and for the identity of this Assembly. I'm asking you and your acting vice presidents. I assume there are some complaints you've expressed here and there about the manner of the MPs. We all need the Presidential Court to set an example in order for those words to be fulfilled. I'd like to bring this to your attention, Mr. President. The second issue: The item that has been brought here, which has changed the 47th article of the Law on Ideas and Arts, does not show why the substance, which has been in force for fifty-three years, has been brought here in a modified manner. It is entirely arbitrary that the Council of Ministers will confiscate some published artefacts and conclude a monopoly and seriously attack on their rights of opinion. In fact, if the application for the provisions of the law had continued, there would have been no cause for complaint. It's not clear where it came from, it's not clear why it was brought in, it's completely arbitrary that someone... if it's true that the e-mails indicate, for example, the work of Sadi Nursi is aimed at being monopolized by the Council of Ministers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't know if that's the case, but whatever it is, I'd like to ask that our motion be accepted because it constitutes an attack on the rights of opinion. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0194par0407	Thank you, Mr. Sour. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0195par0409	Mr. President, you've discussed the motions of the same nature, and I want you to vote separately...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0194par0410	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I've been told by the Republican People's Party. I'm going to call a speaker from MHP, Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu will speak. However, Mr. Halaçoglu, before you speak, I'd like to say a few words: I'm trying to run the House on the basis of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0196par0414	You don't know anything about the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0194par0415	If I don't behave in accordance with the Civil Code, if I don't, or if I haven't...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0196par0416	You're running the coven so happily, so much fun.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0194par0417	...the opposition parties here follow me very carefully and immediately open up a discussion. Mr. Sok, I'll tell you this very briefly: for some reason, you don't come to the House very often, but the Civil Code here is very different. It's something that can be learned more and more.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0197par0419	That didn't happen, Mayor. That didn't happen.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0198par0420	Is that all right, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0199par0421	It's more than an apology, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0200par0422	If you'd discussed this as a matter of procedure, if you'd been discussing the procedure, I think it would have made more sense in terms of what you said at the time...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0201par0423	You can open it now.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0199par0424	What's the point, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0200par0425	...and I'm shutting this down because you criticized me, and I told you my criticism of you. Thank you. Let's just leave it at that, please.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0202par0427	Mr. President, I want your word, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0203par0428	You put Oktay Bey in the non-permanent category.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0204par0429	Mayor, you picked on me, don't tease me.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0202par0430	Mr. President, I want your word, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0205par0431	Yes, Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoglu will speak on the other proposal of the same nature.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0202par0432	Mr. President, I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0205par0433	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0202par0434	You've said things that teased me.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0205par0435	I didn't pick on you, I just told you my thoughts.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0202par0436	I want my say-so.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0205par0437	I didn't pick on you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0206par0438	You made Mr. Oktay an absentee student, an absentee student!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0202par0439	Mr. President, I'd like to exercise my say-so. What you said about me...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0205par0440	I didn't pick on you, but I'm here for you, for your age.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0202par0441	Thank you. You're wrong.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0207par0443	You're too weak to understand the meaning of what's coming out of your mouth.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0208par0444	You have respect for your age, but why are you talking there, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0209par0445	Mr. Oktay's going on, and I'm a witness, he's even coming to the commission.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0210par0446	Mr. President, the Civil Code is not promised because of age.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0211par0447	Every word is a foul, every word is a foul!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0212par0450	Your Honor, since I may be sitting behind the desks, I can't reach your high spirits, but I believe I'm one of the most ongoing MPs in this House...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0213par0452	The people who go through the back see it.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0214par0453	He'll sit in the back.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0212par0454	...and my fellow Justice and Development Party members will hand it over because they saw me pass by. First, I'd like to point out that at this point, your statement is unfortunately incompatible with the facts. Secondly, my request is that both you and the MPs who speak here and anyone who speaks of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey use a language that shows respect for the dignity of this Assembly. I don't think it offends you that I'm asking you, that it offends you, but if there's anything that offends you, I'm prepared to take those words back. I said that because I want grace here, kindness here, respect here. I respect all of you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0215par0458	Thank you. Everyone's respect is in their own way. Yes, now, Mr. Halaçoglu, please...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0216par0461	You have to say something, Mr. President, you have to say it!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0217par0462	You don't seem to understand what words mean.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0215par0463	Mr. Sok, instead of answering me, you should hear what the congressman you're sitting in a back row talking to on his behalf, and then talk, okay?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0217par0464	Don't I have a name?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0215par0465	That's what you do from now on. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0217par0467	Don't I have a name?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0215par0468	That's the real respect.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0218par0469	Mr. President, you're just confirming me with these words, and I'm sorry, but you're confirming me.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0215par0470	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0219par0474	Thank you. Sir, even though my ten seconds are gone, what I want to say will be over in less time than that. Dear friends, in fact, the 90th article is really a unique substance in the world. So there is no other law in any democratic country in the world that allows political power, ideas and works of art, to allow work to be allowed, without the benefit of the public, without a condition.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0220par0477	A new concept!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0219par0478	Now, you can do this: you keep an old piece with public or national values in your national libraries, you can give the right to publish it for a price, but you can't take a stand to prevent others from publishing it. Secondly, let's look at this article: I couldn't understand the word "Property of the Council of Ministers" with the rights of the rightful owners to demand a reasonable price. After the death of the owner, there is a law on what kind of royalties to be paid. Before the end of the protection period, it could be public property. Dear friends, think of me as writing a piece. It's the government's decision to make my work public; what kind of nonsense is that? I'm alive, I've got kids, I've got heirs; can that be bullshit? I mean, what in God's name do you think you're doing? You're bringing in a law proposal that's not gonna happen anywhere in the world. In order to make a decision on this matter, the work must have been created by Turkish citizens in Turkey or outside Turkey. What are you going to do now, then, in Iran, in the national library? Do you have any idea how ridiculous this is? So, in France, think of our book, let's say, written in the Balkans in the Ottoman era. What are you going to do then, not put it in there? Let's say a Turk didn't write, an Ottoman citizen did.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0221par0481	That's their goal, Hajji, don't you know that? He's bringing it for her.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0222par0482	Teacher, they're going to confiscate your book! They're going to confiscate it!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0221par0483	That's what they're for, that's why he's bringing it.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0223par0484	There's no such thing as nonsense. Let's say I write six volumes of books about tribes. It's also seen in the public interest. Now, are you going to confiscate my book? And where do you find such a ridiculous thing? Okay, I know you're doing it because of Saidi Nursel's risals. All right, brother, like the risalites, I'll tell you something even more important, so take the Qur'an. No, you're saying it's in the public interest. Look, here...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0224par0486	C'mon, c'mon, c'mon, c'mon, c'mon,
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0223par0487	This isn't about anything, it's not about anything. Look, the Qur'an, much more, the Islamic world...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0224par0489	It's the religion that makes it.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0223par0490	Don't do it. Look, I'm talking about the artifact, I'm talking about the book. So you're just going to print the Qur'an as a government, and you won't let people press it? Come on, you're doing it wrong. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0225par0491	It needs to be controlled.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0223par0492	Control... Look, I'm saying that in every country in the world, by their permission, the government allows artefacts to be published for a certain fee, and anyone, anyone, can publish them. For example, the XIV. Louis had a book in Bibliotheque Nationale, France, under the name of the Istanbul Conquest Project. I bought both copies of the book and the microfilm; they're also selling their publishing rights again, and I bought that too.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0225par0494	Teacher, don't confuse the Qur'an with the other books.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0223par0495	Brother, do not confuse them with books. So you're saying that Risale-i Nur works for everyone, but the Qur'an doesn't work?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0225par0496	No, Master, you can't print without control.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0223par0497	Come on, no, look, try to understand what I'm saying before you try to understand what I'm saying. Now, do you see the Qur'an that every Muslim needs, the Qur'an that every Muslim needs, less than the rest of them, so you're trying to tell me about it?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0225par0499	Don't mention it!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0226par0500	Oh, hodja, oh, hodja!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0223par0501	Come on, my example is a very serious example. I'm saying that things like this, look, you get it wrong, you get it wrong. If you want to be blocked or printed by someone, it's like banning a printing press, don't do it. The best way to spread our cultural values is to get everyone, anyone who wants to, to be allowed to print on a controlled basis. You won't get anywhere with the bans. If someone's doing it wrong, you can't solve it by involving everyone in that ban. So you'll see, in the coming days, that this material is very wrong, and so will you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0227par0504	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639 Sequential Bill of Law, dated 5/12/1951, be replaced by the 90th article, which envisions a change in Article 47 of Idea and Art Works of Art Law, "Turkish citizens in Turkey or outside Turkey," which has been announced since 1980, and has been forced out of the country due to political opposition to today." Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0228par0511	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0227par0512	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Adil Zozani will speak on the motion, Hakkari MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0229par0517	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of the government, members of the ruling party, if you had written this clear article, you would have said: "We are confiscating the works of Saidi Kurdi. No one outside the state can publish and publish these works.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0230par0519	There was no need to argue.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0229par0520	That's your obvious intention, if you'd put it that way. I mean, this isn't the answer either, but if you put it like this, at least your intentions would have been clear. Instead, would you not have done a better job of doing something like this: (The values of this country cannot be altered in any way on cultural values, ideas and works of art that lay the groundwork of this country's cultural infrastructure?) Wouldn't you have done a better job? You'd be doing a better job. Risals belonging to Saidi Kurdi were tampered with and reversed in Turkey. It was printed and distributed, as if it belonged to Timeless things. Why don't you get in the way of that? Look at the 1986 editions, when Saidi Kurdi was a member of the Risals, there was a clear destruction. I wonder, when you press, when the government publishes, when the Ministry of Culture publishes, will these artifacts be removed? In no form of time is the province of song written, in the original manuscripts, there is no concept of the province of song anywhere, there is a province of Kurdistan. But in all the pressures made after 1986, the cities of the song were replaced. Are you going to stand in the way of this breach? I wonder if that's what you'll say when you press, when the government press. Will you or will you not remove the concept of the provinces of song and replace it with the definition of what came out of the pen of Bedizen? If you're going to do that, I'll tell you. Simplify the subject, don't generalize it. I'd like to say that I agree with Mr. Halaçoglu at this point. Yes, this will lead you to permitting the Quran. You're holding such a clear title, you're making such a wide arrangement; it's not true. One more thing, since we started with Risaley-i Nur. We brought it up last year, and we told you where his grave was, and we told you the location of the tomb of Bediztime on this stand. Expose his grave. Those who love the poor may go to the shrine of Bediztime and read a prayer. Why are you holding this back? Look, we've been waiting a year for an answer. For over a year, we've been saying this on this bench, we've told you he's in Isparta, we've given you the name of the village, why haven't you taken a step in the matter? Let's take a step forward on this. Isparta MPs know where it is, tell him to come here. Second important thing, see, our orator friends who spoke before me spoke: There is a massacre of mankind today and a second Kerbela. People are buried alive in the ground, babies have their heads cut off, people are dying of hunger, this Parliament has not said a word. There's no difference between chengal and Gaza. This Parliament, which is sensitive to Gaza, must approach the Shengal, the Yezidi citizens and the people at the same distance, with human emotion. But I understand that you can't step forward, especially the members of the ruling party, because when they do, they'll see the Prime Minister's promise in Elazıg two years ago. Two years ago, in October 2012, when we were being criticized, what did the Prime Minister spend in a speech in Elazığ? He says: "These are Zarathust, Yezidi, and they also perform the ritual. Who knows what else is there? Yes, what the Prime Minister said that day. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the people who live in Şengal are being massacred today.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0231par0529	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0229par0530	I've just received a request from a Yezidi MP in the Baghdad Parliament...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0231par0531	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0229par0532	We played it for you. We expect this Parliament to show some sensitivity and do its human duty, and there's still nothing said about it. Mr. President, we expect you and the other members of Parliament to show some sensitivity in this matter. I thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0231par0535	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0232par0538	We're against all oppression, all oppression!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0233par0539	President, say it on the stand, he's on the stand!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0232par0540	I will.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0233par0541	Two years ago, Yezidi are being persecuted today. You were accusing me of Yezidi.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0234par0542	Members of parliament, Kütahya MP Alim Ik and his friends have a motion for a new substance violation. The amendment is proposed in Law 6136. However, since Law 6136 is not a law on the proposed bill, Article 87 of the Civil Code will not be carried out.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0235par0543	Mr. President, why can't this bag get into the law? It's urgent.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0233par0544	Is the bag full, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0234par0545	Mr. Light, in order for you to add law to the bag, even if it's a bag, there must be a bill and order in the bag. Like this.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0235par0546	Mr. President, you know the laws that aren't in the bag are added here. If it comes from the government, why would it come from us?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0233par0547	Mr. President, how long have you been studying this?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0234par0548	I've been acting as group president, Zozani, I know that. Okay, I know how to do this.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0233par0549	How long did you study it? 108 points gone, really?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0234par0550	I've been acting as group president for four years, okay, come on!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0233par0552	You don't have to say come on!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0236par0553	No, President, it didn't! It doesn't suit me!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0234par0554	Congressmans, there are four motions in Article 91. I'm having them read...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0233par0555	Mr. President, you're gonna take it back.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0234par0556	Okay, I take it back.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0233par0557	No, then rewind to be heard.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0234par0558	Okay, I got it back, okay. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 91 of the 639 rows of the Law shall be replaced as follows by Article 6200 and Article 6th added to the Law. Nurettin Canikli Erkan Akçay Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman love Look Recep Special Yilmaz Bronze "If water structures are opposed to legislation and approved project, it will be given a period of no more than 30 days by the DSI to correct the situation on the written notification of the executive control company to the DSI. At the end of the deadline or in emergency situations, the DSI immediately partially or completely stops the work," he said. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 639 Numbered Bill of Law, dated 18/12/1953, envisions adding additional articles to the Law on the Organization and Missions of State Water Affairs General Directorate 6200. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Sebahat Tucson Hasip Kaplan Congressmans, since the two motions I'm going to now read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, and I'm going to make a separate commitment in the form of a request. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 91 of the current Law Bill 639 be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay Özcan Yeniçeri Mustafa Kalaycı Kemalettin Yilmaz S. Nevzat Korkmaz Mesut Dedeoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 639 Orders Numbered Bill 91. We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. Mehmet Ali Sesam Oktay Soci Levent Gök Haluk Ahmet Silver Ayşe Nedret Akova Musa Pine Does the Commission participate in the reading of the motions?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0237par0587	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0234par0588	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0238par0593	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, we propose that this item be removed. We talked upstairs, and our friends say we're making a little correction. Now, that kind of understanding is not possible. Why is this substance here? Because earlier, there was a change in Law 6111, and in view of that -- let me tell you very briefly -- the Ministry, the DSI, has issued regulations, and it is envisioned to transfer control tasks to the private sector. That's the gist of it. Now, dear friends, I really don't understand such a thing. The reason for the cancellation is in violation of Article 128 of the Constitution. When we look at the things that are done here in Article 128 of the Constitution, the original and permanent tasks required by public services are seen by officers or public servants. Well, now, you're looking here, just by taking the sanction of the audit yourself -- that's the essence of the job -- we saved it. Look, what happens in this situation? Besides, you're not paying for the contract, giving the contract, determining the outcome of the contract, it's a government-opened... look, if the state were to open a tender, I'd understand. There's a private company, HES, and they're going to be audited. The HES company will pay for this audit. The Ministry opens the tender, decides who to give it to, then collects it from that company and collects it here. I've never heard or seen anything like it in my life. I don't understand what you're doing. Now, there's independent control companies here, there's sworn financial advisors, there's building control companies. Mr. Secretary, I don't understand. Is the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization opening the tender for building control companies? So, who's going to supervise your company, if you have a construction company -- which YMM you're going to work with in your company -- is the Ministry of Finance going into the tender and telling you? No. So, all the work is done, and we're supposed to give it to the company, or what? Is this the one who gets the contract? Ha, then, we asked the Minister how much is there? Oh, there's so much honey cream! We've learned that 833 -- if I don't remember correctly -- there's a project going on in the private sector right now, so each of these will be audited, and there's 832 storage available, and the DSI has 622. I mean, there's a potential for inspection of nearly 1,500 companies. Well, friends, mercy, conscience! Is it the same place that gives the job and supervises it and deals with its money and sets its standards, Minister? I mean, this is really weird! I still don't understand how something like this can be written and brought here. Look, there's an EPDK. There was the Accounting Standards Foundation here, you all remember, we put it together, we have a Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Foundation, setting the standards of control. Editing the electricity market, overseeing task is in the EPDK. So, well, I'm asking you this... politically, you come here and you form a Department of Regional Watch and Evaluation in the Prime Minister's Office, where there's the Department of Development -- the Ministry of Economics and Co-ordination General Directorate, where there are social sectors, where there are experts in all sectors in the Ministry of Economics, you get 402 advisers. Let's give him 400 inspectors. Let's get him, brother, have the inspector check it out. Why can't he check it out? How come he doesn't have an employee? Here you come, we'll give you 40,000 teachers at a time. I mean, you're getting 402 reporters to the PM for no reason at all. Everyone has to serve the Prime Minister anyway. The Prime Minister's office, the coordination unit, it'll be there. So there's no further side to this, guys. So we have the right to be like this, so don't be angry: Who has received these tenders before? Are there any of these companies close to you? We'll ask if any of the minister's relatives are close. Otherwise, there's no explanation. No one who's ever done a mind, a logic, the tiniest of audits can allow that to happen. So I appeal to your mind, to your conscience. The passing of this substance, if you're a saint's grandson, it'll put you on trial tomorrow. Whoever that minister is, that general manager, let no one be anything, make a four-quarter tender, Mr. Secretary, you'll all be charged tomorrow because you can't handle it. ▪ Why were they given to those companies? Why was he not given here? Everyone speaks. For him, this substance needs to be removed. If there's anything relevant, the law on the electricity market says that we need to set up a new standard of control by making the necessary arrangements.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0239par0600	Thank you. The other speaker is Mr. Musa Çam, MP of İzmir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0240par0603	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on Article 91 of the Law Bill 639. An additional clause is made for the Law on the Agency and its duties of State Water Affairs General Directorate No. 6200. Dear friends, State Waterworks was founded in 1954, a very important public economic initiative with a 60-year tradition, an important state institution, a very serious investment, a face-to-face institution in Turkey. There are about 4,502 engineers currently working, about 7,900 officers, 12,000 employees; a massive institution and organization with 20,000 staff. We discussed the arrangement brought here in the Plan and Budget Commission in a very, very serious way, loud and clear way. There were two proposals brought to you by Mr. Vedat Demiröz, and the other to you by Lord Matlı. Then it turned out that someone was a repeater. There were long discussions. We have had this discussion for a long time on the motion given by Vedat Demiröz. The department's relevant officials were there, the general manager was there, the legal advisors were there. We've asked clearly and clearly what to do with this proposal, but we've seen clearly and clearly that there is no arrangement that satisfys the Plan and Budget Commission. This arrangement completely privatises a number of jobs and functions that the State Water Affairs should be doing now, as required by Article 128 of our Constitution. The State Water Affairs will no longer perform certain tasks, a number of audits and organizational tasks will be carried out by outside service, and so they are completely privatized. The head of State Water Affairs said there, there are now 128 hydropower plants, and only 4 of them are public, making all of them private sectors. So far, a total of 450 licenses have been issued, so these are hydropower plants that will be produced in the coming days. Dear friends, with so many hydropower plants, 20,000 employees, the State Water Affairs Agency should be in control, overseeing, and carrying out some of its duties, unfortunately with this arrangement, this power falls entirely to the private sector. There's a decision the State has made on this matter, folks. The court decides to stop the execution of these services. Not enough, the State Court takes the issue to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court cancels the issue, cancels these regulations, and State Water Affairs Director says: "We visited, visited the President of the Constitutional Court with a delegation, we told him about our problems, we made this legal arrangement on that affliction and meram, and brought it to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. You're now trying to pass this clause, which the Supreme Court has cancelled, which the State has decided to cease to execute, by law, by making a legal arrangement. It's not right, friends, it's wrong. Now, look, there's a State Waterworks foundation law, folks. In his 2nd article, his work is clearly and clearly in order. There's no arrangement here for you to receive counseling. I'm reading the supplement (r) clause, the task given here: to check whether hydropower plants open for operation are operated in accordance with water rights agreements, to do all kinds of accounts and collections on these things. Now, by setting up this arrangement that is not within the Agency's law of State Water Affairs, with a law clause here, you open and privatise all the jobs that State Water Affairs should be doing to the private sector. Recently, Mr. Veysel Eroglu said: "We are bringing in a new water law. " A draft of a new water law has been drafted, my friends. It's always one after the other. Privatisation is a path towards the privatisation and attracting of Turkey's public institutions and subterranean and subterranean wealth, one of which is one of them. Mr. Secretary has just announced that the water law is being drafted, my friends. He's kind of walking around. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For about 32 articles and forty-nine years, Turkey's water is given to the private sector, and the private sector is being sequestered.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0241par0615	Thank you, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0240par0616	Therefore, with this motion, we demand that this clause be removed. I salute you all, friends.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0241par0619	Mr. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0242par0621	Sometimes the mind stops, friends, but I mean, when it's in the best interest, it flies!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0243par0622	It's sold, it's sold, it's not flown, it's sold!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0242par0623	I mean, there's a motion coming up that ignores the Constitution, ignores the Civil Code, doesn't meet the commissions, comes up with a pirate proposal, and goes into this bag. The pirate motion inside the bag is about State Waterworks. Editing supplement. In addition to the additional clause and the amendment to the Power Market Act and the right to use water. HES projects, which ruined the world's most unplanned, messy, wildest rivers, its nature, its culture, its tourism, were given during the AK PARTI administrations. For him, in the Prime Minister's hometown of Rizzo, mothers draw the flag of resistance, taking care of their rivers and streams. Grandma of Tortum says to the forces that brought up the gendarme against her: "We will meet him at the bridge. For him, thousands of people who claim the Munzur River are protesting against him by pulling up 5,000 men. That is why people in Allianoi still have not forgotten the account of what you left underwater. You've ruined the Gediz River, the Ergene River is flowing with poison, at the end of 2014 on the Tigris River, you're sacrificing a historical value, like Hasankeyf, tens of thousands of years of various civilizations, places of worship where Muslims, Christians, Suryans, other religions were all. In fact, if you think about it too much, it's no different than ISIS's head. Isil finishes at once, bombing mosques. They destroy mosques from the Ottoman era, the churches of the Prophets, the churches of the Christians, then the places of worship of the Ezidis, where they go, they destroy, they destroy, they destroy, they destroy, they destroy, they destroy civilization, the traces of history, the roots of Mesopotamia, not their colors, not their people. Now we're looking from here, for God's sake, what do you want to do? Who do you want to favor by giving State Water Affairs a bag of law enforcement? Anyway, all of the tenders for these HES dams are unhealthy, they're all controversial, and in the name of 13 HES projects you've done between the Nation and Beytüşşebap, even crows will laugh if you call it the security dam. Come on, guys! Look, you're going to be building the Cizre dam soon. In Şırnak, the GAP project. But you failed to water it, and you failed to water it, which is the 40 years of hope. We all owe thanks to the governments that laid the foundation of the GAP, but we have to continue to ask accountability for those who can't keep it going. Why haven't water been moved through the canals of the Plains of Mardin in 40 years? In Şanlıurfa, where you get 70 per cent of the vote, why is the Sanliurfaian agricultural producer still drawing water with electricity, with drilling, a mile away from the Ataturk Dam? You didn't do the math. You've spent 17 billion dollars on this unemployment fund; you say, "Don't supervise this; don't inspect the canals." You say, "Don't supervise the regulators." You say, "Don't supervise the destruction of nature, don't inspect the culture." You've already turned it into a rogue system, connected to the EPDK, the Department of Energy or the Ministry of Forestry? Mr. Secretary of Defense is already here, the right, the most indifferent Minister, and they brought him here today, I don't know if it's the watch, but I don't want to take his sin, you're doing the wrong thing, my friends, and that would hurt you, too. Because anything that harms Turkey harms all of us.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0244par0627	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0245par0629	Mr. President, before we vote on the clause, who is this company, who is going to be doing this audit?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0244par0630	Can I ask you a favor?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0245par0631	Sir, look, we're making a very important law here.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0244par0632	When I start a sentence, if you'll excuse me for a second...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0245par0633	Well, you promise me, too.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0244par0634	I'd like you to finish my sentences and tell me what's wrong with you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0245par0635	Okay.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0244par0636	Yes, I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I'm having the other motion read...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0245par0638	Now, this is important, Mr. President. Now, look, we're taking control of 1,600 HES and dams -- even though they have engineers -- we're giving them to a company founded according to the Turkish Trade Law. What's so special about that? I mean, is he an engineer or an architect to supervise here?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0246par0640	The motion for engineers is coming in, it will be corrected.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0245par0641	Ahmet, there's a human mind here!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0246par0642	Read the motion...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0245par0643	If you started a company, if you're bringing in such embarrassing motions to make money, that's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0246par0644	Take a look at the motion...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0245par0645	All right, let's have the motion.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0646	Thank you, thank you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 91 of the 639 rows of the Law shall be replaced as follows by Article 6200 and Article 6th added to the Law. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends "If water structures are opposed to legislation and approved project, it will be given a period of no more than 30 days by the DSI to correct the situation on the written notification of the executive control company to the DSI. At the end of the deadline or in emergency situations, the DSI immediately partially or completely stops the work," he said. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0248par0653	We agree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0654	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0249par0655	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0656	I'm having it read.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0657	Mr. President, please, let the Minister make a statement. I'm the one who's in charge here...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0658	Mr. Young, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0659	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0660	Look, this morning...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0661	No, let's understand the law, sir. What's so special about the company that's going to do the inspection?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0662	Excuse me... I have all the records. Mr. Sour, you can listen. I'm not reading these transcripts so I don't have to go into a new polemic. When I opened the union, you spoke to me in a way that did not sound good in the matter of making promises to you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0664	Maybe.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0665	Mr. Young, Mr. Sour, a person can't stand up and talk at any time, wherever he wants, in this Parliamental study.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0666	He can't talk...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0667	There's a way to talk, and it's my way of letting it happen.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0668	I'm asking permission.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0669	Because I'm the head of this Court, I'm the Vice President, and I represent the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. You say you know the Charter well.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0670	I guess so.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0671	But can you tell me, in what article of the Charter, is this behavior?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0672	Sir, according to Article 60...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0673	Is this the practice of Article 60?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0674	Like this.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0675	It's not like that.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0676	No, how am I supposed to get up and ask you?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0677	I promise... you'll take care of it with your own group, not with me.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0678	No, sir. Mr. President, what do I call you now? I mean, can't I stand up, Mr. President, and say something about it?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0679	Yes, you will.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0680	That's what I'm telling you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0681	But you won't say, "Woe to you!"
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0682	No... sir, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0683	Get down from there, you won't say.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0684	Now, a very important law is being brought here. Look, this is for tomorrow... Look, I've been in the D.A.'s office, and I've been a judge.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0685	More, sir, let me read to you: You must learn this! You must not say this!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0686	Mr. President, listen to me.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0687	You're not gonna say that.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0688	No, just hear me out.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0689	Mr. Sorik, you've used your kind words for me to say these words, and I think you'll be a little upset if you read the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0690	Sir, I don't have to butter you up. First of all, if you're honest with the presidency...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0691	Also, let me ask you one more thing: Read the Civil Code to the 72nd article, including 60, and you will know how much you have offended me. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0693	Yeah, look, about that Charter...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0694	Are you, sir, talking about the HESEs? Tell me what you're talking about, what you want.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0695	Mr. President, I'm saying that I'd like to make a statement based on the 60th article on the control companies here.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0696	Okay, I gave it to you, you talked.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0697	Where did I talk to you?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0698	What are you doing now? Until now, of course, you've been silent.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0699	No, you didn't.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0700	All right, come on, I'll give you a minute, I promise.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0250par0703	Now, Mr. President, there are very serious laws here. Look, I've been in the DA's office, I've been a judge for 14 years. Because of these laws, there will be conflict tomorrow, and when this discrepancy goes to trial, it will be asked, "What has been spoken to the assembly about it?" Now, here's the audit... I mean, they're taking control of private companies that make HESFFs and dams from the State Waterworks, and they're given to companies based on the Trade Law. But what are the properties of these companies, technical employees, accounting companies, or lawyers, they are not specified, they are not specified. Look, it's against the law. So it seems that there are certain companies that AKP's executives have set up, and once they pass this law, they will tender these companies for large fees. In the beginning of everything, AKP executives chase after him, asking, "How will money flow into my pocket when making a law?"
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0704	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0251par0705	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0706	Mr. Secretary, are you going to talk about the motion or the bullying?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0251par0707	The deputy's asking... no bullying, I'll make a statement.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0252par0708	Don't be coy...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0709	An explanation according to 60...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0251par0710	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0252par0711	There's no teasing!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0712	Guys, please, I'm holding it down, I'm not talking about pleasure here, I have to ask.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0252par0713	Is that the way to ask?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0714	That's how you ask.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0253par0715	We asked him a question, he'll answer.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0716	Mr. Secretary, are you going to make a statement?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0254par0717	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0247par0718	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0254par0720	Mr. Young, there will be counseling here, some of our institutions are still receiving it. Look, if a fast train is being built, the high-speed train gets technical counseling service from the State Railways of the Republic of Turkey. This is counseling, technical counseling. Look, I'm from the naval background, and friends who are sailors know it. There are between 15 and 20 naval control companies in the market, and they get a certificate of accreditation, and they're related to this firm. Here, with a technical regulation, which firms can do technical counseling, technical auditing, then the tender will be made. What's more natural than that?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0255par0721	It's not in the material.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0254par0722	I mean, it's a consulting firm, and it's going to be a technicality. Thus, the institution has done so before, and it would be much more appropriate for an independent institution to do the counseling work. Look, when there's an earthquake in the southeast -- is it true -- what are the first buildings to collapse? We call it the buildings of public enterprises. Why? There's something wrong with the inspection. So you're an independent...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0255par0724	Let's call off the government!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0254par0725	I mean, the counseling service... you can call it the trial, or you can call it the civil service.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0255par0726	Let's call off the government! You're in charge of the government.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0254par0727	It's not like that, it's not like that! Okay? No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0255par0728	You have no confidence, no self-esteem.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0254par0729	People will see him. We put the service of 80 years ahead of the public, and we put the service of this decade ahead of it.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0255par0730	You've sunk Turkey in ten years, you'll pay for this.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0254par0731	Let everyone look at their scales, for God's sake, and let them know when they're better served, but not if we're biased. There's no such regulation, no technical counsel service, and we're saying we're gonna do it next semester. We'll see what companies they're in again.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0255par0733	Write it down. Write it down on the law.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0256par0734	Mr. Secretary, why don't you write?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0257par0735	Let's not talk mutually, please.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0258par0736	This is a technical counseling service, which will be enforced...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0259par0737	Is it in the material? Write it down.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0258par0738	...the tender will be provided with technical counseling. We'll supply it.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0260par0740	Thank you. I'm reading the reason: The provisions for the audit of matter and water structures are laid out in detail. In addition, the DSI General Directorate has detailed sanctions for the implementation of the audit duty and authority of the water structures, which will be carried out under the consent of the executive audit company. The amendment to Article 4 with the motion is envisioned for all sanctions to be carried out by the DSI General Directorate. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are two motions in Article 92: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the statement "In non-city municipalities" to come after the declaration of "Official:" in the second joke of the 639 Numbered Law Proposal in Article 92. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Hasip Kaplan Sebahat Tuncel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 92 of Law Bill 639 be changed in the following manner. Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı S. Nevzat Don't Fear Kemalettin Yılmaz Özcan Yeniçeri Mesut Dedeoğlu The joke of Article 3 (g) of Article 6245, dated 92-10/2/ 1954, has been changed as follows. "g. The official's office: the municipality where the officer and the servant are originally employed or where the municipality of residence is located and where the towns and towns are located outside the municipality limits, while the residential areas of the town and the towns are continuing and the municipal services are taken away, and in the cities where the urban municipalities are located, you will be able to go to the municipality and to the municipality where the official and the servant are originally employed or to the municipality's municipality of residence, along with the residential areas of the districts and districts of the districts where they are located; and you will be able to stay outside of the municipality of the municipality and the municipality of residence; and you will go to the municipality of the municipality and to the municipality of residence of the municipality by the municipality; and you will go to the municipality and to the municipality of the municipality of residence of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality and the municipality of the municipality of residence." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0261par0768	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0260par0769	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Halaçoglu, who will speak?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0262par0772	Lütfü Türkkan...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0260par0773	Mr. Lütfü Türkkan will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0263par0775	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to Article 92 of the Law on Business Law and the restructuring of some of its creditors. I salute the grand jury. One of the most important elections in the history of the Republic of Turkey will take place on Sunday, and we're here to discuss bag law. It's an endless bag; there's all kinds of stuff, all kinds of laws, it's complicated. This bag is a really good soup, and we're trying to get out of this soup. May our people forgive us. I don't think it's going to be a very pleasant anecdote to the history of the Republic of Turkey today. The most important thing, folks, is to go to the polls in this presidential election. From here, I warn everyone, the Turkish nation: No matter who you vote for, go to the chest in this election that will determine the most important process of the 90-year-old Republic of Turkey. Because everyone's doing the math that you're not going to the trunk. If you leave, you should know that there will be no more corruption in Turkey from December 17th to 25th, that there will be no more crates, no more shoeboxes, no more ships to talk about. So, go ahead and use your democratic rights in the chest, vote for it. If you don't go to the polls, you and the entire Turkish nation will be seriously harmed by the events that will take place the day after tomorrow. There's an operation going on with the police while we're talking about it. There was another operation yesterday. I'm looking at the reasons for the operations: wiretaps, fraud in official documents. The biggest fraud was done in the House; you were accusing the police, you were faking it the day before, and you were voting for the nation. Didn't those cops say in their interrogations that we saw you in the House, that you were cheating, that we learned from you, that we tried to do something? What are you going to say?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0264par0779	What do you think about being here and writing it down?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0263par0780	When I'm not here, I don't have any friends to stand up and sign for me.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0264par0781	What do you think about sitting here and writing it down?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0265par0782	My friend, he's none of your business, he's in the Charter, but you can't sign for someone else.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0263par0783	Signing for a friend in Cyprus is a fraud. To resort to such fraud is the work of a weak man, so do not suffer. I'd like to move on to the presidential nominations. On one hand is Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who received the Jewish Medal of Courage from Israel, who slaughtered the Palestinians; on the other hand, Mr Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu, who was awarded the Star of Jerusalem State Order by the Palestinian state when he was the general secretary of the Islamic Co-operation Organization. I mean, on one hand, Mr. Erdoğan, who defended Palestine, sold Israeli aircraft diesel, proudly carried the Jewish bravery badge around his neck for years, traded his sons, ships to Israel; on the other hand, Mr. Erdogan, who started campaigns to reconcile Palestinian organisations, to condemn Israeli state terror, and was awarded by the Palestinian state, by Mr. Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu. I don't look at words, I look at action. You're saying, here's the action. On the one hand, there's a candidate who can't even call the ISIS terrorist organization a terrorist organization that cuts heads off and makes slaves of women. This ISIS raided Turkish soil, kidnapped consulate employees. Do you realize the consulate employees are still hostages? No. 49 officers are hostages, including the consul of the Republic of Turkey, and you can't call them terrorists. Whose fear? You can't tell because you're afraid of ISIS. ISIS scared you. And ISIS...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0266par0786	They're cooperating. They're cooperating.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0267par0787	Co-operation with Pennsylvania...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0263par0788	You'll tell that to those who spent eleven years arm in arm with Pennsylvania. Yesterday we called it Pennsylvania, and today we call it Pennsylvania. We didn't swear to anyone after him today. (Applause from MHP rows) In our book, there's no turning against the man we're arming.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0267par0789	Congratulations on your partnership.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0263par0790	That's not in our book. Once we're in a man's arm, we're friends. We don't dagger our friend, we don't make enemies, we don't betray.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0268par0791	People will decide, they'll decide on Sunday.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0263par0792	We don't do that. Write down the work you've been doing for 11 years, and then talk.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0269par0793	Come on Tuesday, talk here.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0268par0794	People will decide on Sunday.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0263par0795	You've been together 11 years, you'll have to answer for this. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0270par0798	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. [[Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, ……]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the statement "In non-city municipalities" to come after the declaration of "Official:" in the second joke of the 639 Numbered Law Proposal in Article 92. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0271par0806	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0270par0807	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0272par0808	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit05spe0270par0809	I'm reading the reason: The job was presented with this motion to correct the narration disorder in the article statement and to make it clear that the first statement belongs to non-majority municipalities. [[Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you expect respect from me, please respect the Court. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0270par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 130th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. Commission? Here. Government? Here. There are three motions on Article 93. I'm going to read these proposals in the same context and then I'm going to process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 93 be removed from the draft text of the current 639 Numbered Bill of Laws, dated 31/8/1956, which envisions adding additional articles to Forest Law 6831. İdris Bauken Nazmi Gür Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Sebahat Tuncel Pervin Buldan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 639 Orders Numbered Bill 93. We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. İlhan Demirözöz Mehmet Ali Sesam Osman Oktay Soşi Levent Gök Ayşe Nedret Akova Haluk Ahmet Silver 93 of the 639 Numbered Legislature. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Bill text. Alim Ik Mehmet Erdogan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0273par0026	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0270par0027	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0274par0028	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0270par0029	Mr. Alim Ik will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0275par0031	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 93 of Law Bill 639, which is being discussed. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Mr. President, especially since you're taking a 20-minute break at an open hour, I'd like to invite you to be more sensitive about this, especially in the interest of our great nation to give up these arbitrary behaviors.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0276par0033	Kütahya is watching you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0275par0034	Dear lawmakers, I would like to share with you the idea that it is not right that the Republic of Turkey, for the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, for the first time, our citizens are preparing for the presidential elections that will vote directly for them, that the High Assembly should be engaged in a bag of law talks, which many of the articles it aims to provide to its supporters. Instead of the lawmakers working on this issue in their territory today, I would like to say that I don't find it true as a member of parliament under the roof of this Grand Assembly, in a hurry to get some of us -- some of us -- through some of the issues that I'm about to express -- through here. I hereby call upon the members of the government, who have avoided informing this great Assembly of the fate of the hostages held by the Islamic State of Damascus since 11 June, to say that their actions have never met the public conscience. Dear lawmakers, with the exception of Article 93, Article 6831 of Forest Law and this added clause in this bag, I'm afraid that so far the base area of the forest or forest regime has been 250 m and floored -- except for the city forest, the city forest, the nature park, the nature monument, the wildlife protection and development grounds, and the plans for the construction and facilities to combat the forest protection and fire -- and to ensure that there is no longer a plan to move forward, except between the basements and the roof -- except for the city, the city, the city park, the nature park, the nature monuments, and the development sites, and the development sites, and the plans to ensure that there is no further development in order to develop, and to ensure that there is no further development in the structures and facilities and the need of the visitors. Thus, the Law of Forestry No. 6831, both under the Law of Land Hunting No. 4915 and under the Law of National Parks No. 2873, the criteria of national and international ecological, biological, social, cultural, wildlife, and so on are allowed to open up the range of areas that have been given special protection status so far, and the status of protected areas are being breached. With this arrangement, a plan is secretly planned to build dozens of luxury villas in Istanbul Park Forest Park, and is adopted without suspension. So, there's a ground set up for it. Two: Against the law, especially for our citizens of Alevi, the Istanbul Tuzla Hacet Deresi Nature Park, where the execution of tens of luxury villas built by non-lawful contractors has been added in order to halt the trial launched in the Forest Engineers' Chamber for annulment. In addition, third: The National Parks Administration, which was drafted by the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs on March 18, 2014 and published in the Official Gazette 28945, has been sentenced by the Court of Parks, which bypassed its long-circuited development plans in violation of the 2873 National Parks Act, allowing the construction of non-planned facilities in the national parks parks areas, and has been added by the Forest Engineers' Chamber to prepare a legal cover for the cancellation of the court.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0277par0043	Thank you, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0275par0044	And it shows that it's a completely random arrangement, which is impossible to accept, and by the admission of our motion, it reminds you of the saying "stop" to this Talan again, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0277par0046	Thank you. Mr. Light, you've said your thoughts about turning off the TV. I didn't mean it like that. What matters to me is that what you and my fellow lawmakers have to say is more important, not to show up in front of the TV, but to have their words more important, more important. That's what I think. Of course, I respect your desire to be on TV, but more urgent than that...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0278par0049	It's not what he wants, it's what the citizens need to know. What does this stuff bring?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0277par0050	I have to take into account the demands of my fellow clerks and fellow staff members in the background, my friends in Laws and Decisions. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0278par0052	Mr. President, you never gave me 20 minutes. That's not right.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0279par0053	Mr. President, this conversation, however, is very unappreciative.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0277par0054	Why?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0279par0055	I mean, people don't come out here to be on TV. I don't want people to know...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0277par0056	But he's also giving criticism, and you closed it on purpose. He says, Mr. Halaçoglu, let it be love!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0280par0057	People need to know that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0279par0058	Mr. President, they're going out to spread the word. For him, you can't describe him as being on TV.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0277par0059	You closed it on purpose. It says. And I'm not intentionally closing it, I'm saying there's some needs, and they're equivalent.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0279par0060	You can't describe it as being on TV.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0277par0061	Please, let's not look under everything. Mr. Ilhan Demiröz will speak on the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0281par0065	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the motion that we have made as Republican People's Party for Article 93 of Bag Bill 639. I salute you all with respect and love. I'd like to say that we've made SMSs for our friends in Bursa and Turkey, between 18 and 7:30, and I've told the fellow officers there -- please watch us, we're going to be very important about forestry, forest looting. But come on, Mr. President, in a 20-minute period of exactly seven minutes, I'd like to say that our conversations can only be monitored on the Internet. Dear friends, the 14th article of the Law of the Forest, number 6831, has brought some bans on the preservation of the forests and on the state forests. I mean, what did he say? He said, "You can't cut down the forest, you can't shoot dynamite in the forest, lakes, ponds, dams, you can't hunt, you can't buy land, sand, gravel for trade, so they brought a preserve to protect the forest, and so we've come to this day. But, what's coming now, fellas? With this added clause, here comes a bill of law to legitimize inappropriate, illegal areas of construction in the forests. What's this additive? In areas that are subject to forest or forest regime, city forest, national park, natural park, nature monument, wildlife protection and development sites, part of the hunting grounds -- 250 square meters and a floor-level basement floor and a roof -- are made according to long-term development plans or development plans. What do you mean? So, very briefly, it's just that, with this clause, it's bringing up the data -- it's continuing to make legal arrangements that are fundamentally disrupting the state's rule of law. It's the law that makes a personal delivery to an address. I would like to say that an arrangement has been made for the Union of Turkish Architecture Engineers to cancel the Chamber of Forest Engineers -- to cancel their plans for illegal development, to prevent unplanned illegal structures. Dear MPs, the Minister of the Ministry of Forest Engineers of the Union of Turkish Architecture Engineers has not been able to connect the Chamber of Forest Engineers to him. Of course, when he couldn't tie it to him, I'd like to say that the Turkish Chamber of Architect Engineers came to you with such a law to block the application of this room in the sense of law. In light of the phone call I made to the head of the Forest Engineers' Chamber, and the information I received from them, I would like to say that dozens of luxury villas were built in Istanbul Park Forest Park, illegally, unlawfully, and in violation of the zoning plan. Secondly, against the law again, I would like to say that the execution of dozens of luxury villas in the Tuzla Hacet Creek, which are sacred to our citizens of Alevi, was made to block the court of Forest Engineers for a mistrial. As my dear friend has just expressed in the Official Gazette, I would like to say that the National Parks Convention, which has been published and is in effect, demonstrates that by bypassing the National Parks Law, they can work as they please in any way they want. Dear friends, there are friends here who run the forest district, head office. Haven't these sites ever been built? It's all been done. Now, why do you want to talk about a four-story villa with a basement and concrete? It's not appropriate. It's combo. Please... I submit to you all the acceptance of this motion on the withdrawal of this clause, and I offer you all respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0282par0074	Thank you, Mr. Irony. The AKP wants to continue by strengthening its rant and looting economy with this clause. In areas of matter, forest or forest regimes, which are subject to occupations, city forest, national park, nature park, nature monuments, wildlife protection and development sites and development sites, construction and facilities to combat forest protection and fire, exceptions to the implementation and the construction of structures that will meet the essential needs of visitors, and the construction of structures that will be carried out, regardless of the nature and development and management plans and the structures of structures that will be carried out in accordance with the structures and structures of structures and structures that will be structures and structures that will be executed in accordance with the nature and structures that are kept on the shores and shorelines. Today, however, many areas that are forbidden to build and to build have been sacrificed to the structures and places where the government has ignored them illegally and unlawfully. In forest and other protection areas, most of the illegal villas and facilities in particular have faced obstructions of justice. As a result of irregular zoning plans, many places that have been opened to Ranta and Talan have developed legal problems. With this law, the government plans to launder its illegal and illegal activities and to open its new domains to subsidized equity groups and individuals. Protecting forests and allowing certain structures under the guise of fighting fires is intended to open the way for unstructed construction in forest areas under cover. Despite the fact that the Cari forest legislation has given adequate opportunities for such protection activities, it is unacceptable that AKP power needs such an arrangement. With change, these problems are intended to be resolved. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 94: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the third amendment to the 639th amendment of the 639th Amendment, which stipulates that the 639th amendment to the 639th Amendment, dated 15/5/ 1959, should be replaced in the following manner, in the following way, in the following way, to add temporary material to the Law with the Helps to be taken by Numbers of Humanitarian Disasters, Number 7269. According to the first joke, the number of dwellings on the unmovables cannot be more than the number of first-degree heirs of those who died in a mining accident. The dwellings of those killed in a mining accident by the President are hereby issued without charge to the heirs of the deceased. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Hasip Kaplan Sebahat Tuncel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 94 of the current Law Bill 639 be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay Ali Halaman Mustafa Kalaycı ♪ You've brought in the scholarly light ♪ ♪ Lightning ♪ MADDE 94-15/5/59, dated 7269, and added the following temporary clause to the Law with measures to be taken in accordance with the Antiquities of Public Life No. 7269. "MADE 24 - Without constraints in other laws, the property can be acquired from the property of the Afet and Emergency Management by the Afet and Emergency Administration, in order to be handed over to the heirs of those who lost their lives in the mine accident in Manisa Ili, Soma County on 13 May 2014. The movers in private property of the treasury or under the government's jurisdiction and those in addition to Article 10 of the Law have been removed from the forest limits and are needed for the same purpose as those in areas to be removed from, and are assigned to the Ministry of Finance. The privatisation of these premises does not include the Privatisation Supreme Board's Decision. According to the first joke, the dwellings on the subsidiaries are issued without charge to the heirs of those who died in a mining accident by the presidential office. The heirs of the miners who died in the accident will receive a total of two dwellings, if they are alive with a wife or a child. In one house, there are separate dwellings for the heirs of miners who have lost more than one life. Following the year when the buildings that were built and handed over to the rightful owners were transferred, 10 years from the budget year will be granted temporary exemption from the extension of Article 5 (c) of Property Tax Act 1319, dated 29/7/1970. What remains of these dwellings is assessed according to general provisions by the Finance Ministry." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 94th draft of the current 639 rows. Article 7269 added to the bill is Interim 24. We propose and propose that the statement of "The Ministry of Finance" in Article 2 shall be changed to "The Council of Ministers." Haluk Ahmet Silver Rahmi Free Special of Love Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0283par0103	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0282par0104	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0284par0105	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0282par0106	The Manisa MP will speak on the motion, Mr. Free Private. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0285par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a commitment to our motion in Article 94 of Bag Number 639. We've been saying for a long time, 15 promises to the miners after the mining accident, the ones that were broken, the ones that were kept, the ones that were kept, the ones that were held... In this article... let the High Council decide whether or not the promise to the miners is true. Because the Prime Minister told the miners who met with the Prime Minister after the accident that each family, every family of miners, every family of our martyrs, would give one to build a house. Later, various institutions and organizations made statements. One of them is the Birth Holdings and the Gaziantep Chamber of Industry and Commerce. One is a public institutional organization, one is a professional organization, and the other is a completely private company. They said they wanted to build a place, they said they'd give a house. And that's where they're going to build a house; we're making an arrangement about the land, and we're assuming that the Prime Minister's promise is being held by Birth Holdings. That's not the right approach for once. If the state has promised to build a house, and the government, who has received the commission to rule it, if this is to be done by the TOKI, it must be done by itself. If a private company has made a commitment to this, it has to meet its plot, and it has to go and fulfill it. It turns out that both these companies and their professional organization both keep their word and that their prime minister keeps their promise instead of theirs. It's completely against the facts. You know, five of the 15 words are kept, and the one that is kept is held in half, and it is kept in the shape of a patch. Look, one of the promises kept is a second salary for Eynez in the mine. They said, "If the company does not pay the company, we will pay the company." Now, the state is going to be a father, and he's going to be a father, and he's going to look at the boy, and he's going to say: "I'm going to buy you shoes at the festival, torn shoes at your feet." Later, the holiday comes, and he says, "Bring your piggy bank." He takes money from the child's piggy bank and buys it for the child's money. That's not gonna happen. Payment from the unemployment fund means that if your father fails to keep his promise, the child will receive a gift from his own piggy bank. I mean, there's no way to really understand how this government, how this government, how you can't promise, how you can't really keep this promise. And Huseyin Çelik said that it is our government's duty to do what is necessary to do. We think so too. But look, lawmakers, Soma AŞ may not be a coal company, let's assume that Soma AŞ is an airline for a moment. On the 13th of May, 301 people died in Soma's plane. Now, Soma Ash says: I want to fly the same model plane, the same training staff, all the same, all the same. You all have children, you have grandchildren. May God give to the great ones whom everyone loves, and forgive to those who love them. Soma Inc, 301 who killed our lives on May 13th, now when Soma Ash wanted to take off again, which one of you would put your child and your grandson on their plane? But now you say: "Let our sons of Soma take this plane again, and let them take off." What conscience can allow that? Please take care of this. In a football match, we're talking about how if someone throws a pet bottle on the field, they're banned from the game for the rest of their life. If someone does drugs, they're banned from competitions for the rest of their life; if it's found that they've damaged the state in the public auction, they'll never be able to enter public tenders again. But this company, which took 301 lives, will continue its mining activities again, and then, on the other hand, it will enter another energy tender and take the contract for the thermal plant. Aren't these the issues that this House needs to be careful about? On the other hand, only 301 people who died in this accident in Soma are given certain rights. Those who died before... you tell them clearly: "Friends, your fathers are in a bit of a hurry to die, so no. " This kind of government doesn't exist. These efforts to silence Soma are incompatible with the seriousness of the state. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0286par0119	Thank you, Mr. Special. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 94 of the current Law Bill 639 be changed in the following way. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends MADDE 94-15/5/59, dated 7269, and added the following temporary clause to the Law with measures to be taken in accordance with the Antiquities of Public Life No. 7269. "MADE 24 - Without constraints in other laws, the property can be acquired from the property of the Afet and Emergency Management by the Afet and Emergency Administration, in order to be handed over to the heirs of those who lost their lives in the mine accident in Manisa Ili, Soma County on 13 May 2014. The movers in private property of the treasury or under the government's jurisdiction and those in addition to Article 10 of the Law have been removed from the forest limits and are needed for the same purpose as those in areas to be removed from, and are assigned to the Ministry of Finance. The privatisation of these premises does not include the Privatisation Supreme Board's Decision. According to the first joke, the dwellings on the subsidiaries are issued without charge to the heirs of those who died in a mining accident by the presidential office. The heirs of the miners who died in the accident will receive a total of two dwellings, if they are alive with a wife or a child. In one house, there are separate dwellings for the heirs of miners who have lost more than one life. Following the year when the buildings that were built and handed over to the rightful owners were transferred, 10 years from the budget year will be granted temporary exemption from the extension of Article 5 (c) of Property Tax Act 1319, dated 29/7/1970. What remains of these dwellings is assessed according to general provisions by the Finance Ministry." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0287par0130	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0286par0131	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0288par0132	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0286par0133	Mr. Erkan Akçay will speak on the motion, Congressman of Manisa.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0289par0135	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion in Article 94, and I salute you all. Because of the dirty relations between this politics, bureaucracy and the capital trio, my hand was killed in the mine disaster at the Soma Coal Company, Eynez Ocay, you know, 301 of our miners died. Prime Minister Erdogan advertises that the miners who lost their lives in Soma have given their families 156,000 lira, as if in a demonstration, the citizens had given their contributions and contributions to the AFAD, as if they had given them to them or to the government or to their own personal gains. Later, housing was promised, housing was said to be to be to be built, and at another group meeting, there will be two dwellings for the inheritors of the miners who lost their lives in Soma, and we learn that these two houses are to be built in the private sector. Which private sector, you have to look at, so how does it do it, we have to look at it well. It's done with good money, you have to look at it first.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0290par0137	It's very important.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0289par0138	Good or bad? I'm no expert, let the fetal authorities give me a fatwa, but let's say what we know, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0290par0140	That's right. That's right, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0289par0141	Yeah. Now, who is this private sector? Birth Holdings. Who is this Birth Holdings? We need to ask you, is the Emancipation Holdings, the Somali mine martyrs, which has 28 media companies, including Star, NTV, CNBC, e2, King TV, 8 TV stations, 5 Internet portals, 6 magazines and publishing houses, for the benefit of their father? We also remember that the boss of the Ethics Holdings bows to the ground as he bows before Erdogan, a shameful bow. Ramazan CAN (Isparta) - Ya, that doesn't sound right. It doesn't suit the people who do it, it's my word. I told them who didn't suit them. It is not fitting for those who bow down and prostrate themselves, but it is incumbent upon Us to say so. We need to look at the tenders from this Birth Holdings. Of course, Boyabat, Artvin, Liony dams... five minutes isn't enough, for him, he's got a lot of contracts, pools, et cetera, et cetera. On our recommendation, again, we ask that the heirs of the married miners who lost their lives in this accident be given two dwellings, assigned, one to the family of the miner, the other to their parents. Mr. President, of course, there was a series called "The False Wind" on television and on this show, there was no limit to lying. The series "The False Wind" took place last Friday at Manisa Squares. And -- and I'm reading it again -- Mr. Erdogan says in the Torba bill, we bring these, these, and these.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0291par0148	It's a gift.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0289par0149	It's like we're giving it away, like we're giving it away. It's like we're giving it away. It's like we're giving it away. It's like we're giving it And then he says, "The opposition doesn't make these arrangements for the miners, so I'm running the House until these arrangements are out." That's a lie, that's a lie. I'm so sorry I used that word, but there's no other answer in the language. We're not taking it off, so... 50 times, 100 times, 500 times, demanding, struggling opposition parties, the ruling party that won't take it off. This bag is the only ruling party responsible for the delay of the bill so far and the failure of its arrangements with Soma (Soma) because -- as if it were the Prime Minister's farm -- it does not say that the opposition said to separate the arrangements for the Soma (Soma) from the bill immediately.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0292par0151	Come to the other 301, and sing the other 301.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0289par0152	It doesn't explain that when the miners raise their salary by three cents, they want to do a 250 million-dollar favor to their mining bosses; they don't say they're laundering privatisation corruption with a bag of money; they don't say they've forgiven the slave's rights, the orphan's rights, and they don't say they've forgiven their followers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Doesn't say it does. There are many more words to be said, but we don't have time, dear friends, in the future, I hope. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0293par0157	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the third amendment to the 639th amendment of the 639th Amendment, which stipulates that the 639th amendment to the 639th Amendment, dated 15/5/ 1959, should be replaced in the following manner, in the following way, in the following way, to add temporary material to the Law with the Helps to be taken by Numbers of Humanitarian Disasters, Number 7269. According to the first joke, the number of dwellings on the unmovables cannot be more than the number of first-degree heirs of those who died in a mining accident. The dwellings of those killed in a mining accident by the President are hereby issued without charge to the heirs of the deceased. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0294par0165	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0293par0166	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0295par0167	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0293par0168	I'm having it read. On 13 May 2014, 301 mining workers were killed in a mine accident in Soma County. While this provision will provide legal ease for the heirs of those who have lost their lives, the number of dwellings that have lifted many restrictions in the existing laws should not be greater than the number of heirs. Otherwise, a large number of dwellings from the number of heirs can be built on the basis of broad powers in this arrangement and can be sold for profit. The work is intended to be made clear so that it will not be used unless it is intended to provide legal ease for the dwellings that are thought to be done with this proposal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 95. I'm going to read the same motions together, and I'm going to process them together, and I'm going to promise the motions in the form of demand. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 95 of Article 6/6/2006 and Article 5520 shall be removed from the bill, dated 31/12/1960, and Article 89 of Article 89 of the IRS Act (10), dated 13/6/2006, and under Article 10 of the Law on Institutions Taxes. İdris Bauken Nazmi Gür Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 95 of Law Bill 639 be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay Ali Halaman Ali Alum Light Ali Öz Mustafa Kalaycı Cemadın Simsek Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0296par0189	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0293par0190	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0297par0191	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0293par0192	Mr. Erkan Akçay will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0298par0195	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made in Article 95. Dear lawmakers, the 95th amendment is being made to Article 193 and Article 10 of Article 5520 of the Law on Taxes of Institutions. The same and cash grants are all changed in the form of the Prime Minister or the Council of Ministers, which have been issued in exchange for receipts for aid campaigns launched. In the 95th article, two different laws, even in the same regard, are regulated. We don't think this arrangement is in line with the law's technique, Mr. President, because the same clause is being changed in both the IRS Act and the Institutions Tax Act. I consider that an oversight. If you think it's appropriate, there's still a change in matter, and it can be split in two. We think that's the way it's supposed to be from a law-enforcement point of view. Of course, the same arrangement, and all cash benefits must have been initiated by the Council of Ministers' decision, due to natural disasters, in order to be subject to reductions under the IRS Act and the Tax of Institutions Act. However, this arrangement allows the Prime Minister to launch a charity campaign on anything without the Council of Ministers' decision, and all the same and cash contributions to this relief campaign are included in income and institutional tax reduction. This clause, which allows the Prime Minister to launch a charity campaign by eliminating the Council of Ministers, should be re-organised, making the aid to this campaign an exception to income and institutional tax. As we look at the core of the arrangement, the valued lawmakers are a nation known for their philanthropy, a nation of high solidarity. The Turkish nation has always shared with others, neighbors, needy people, in need of help, both religious and cultural values. As a matter of fact, in 1999 and finally, in the Van earthquake, in many other social cases before that, this charity was best established. After the Soma disaster, the government said that aid can only be done to AFAD (AFAD) and did not allow other institutions and organisations to collect help. That must have been wrong, too. For this reason, only $46.5m of grants and assistance were collected after the disaster that ensued the Turkish nation and upset the entire world. This is already $16 million, given by the Association of Rooms and Stock Exchanges in Turkey. I mean, there's been a donation of about 30 million citizens. In other disasters, the government must consider why our nation, who donated billions of dollars to the Soma disaster, gave such a low amount of cash to the AFAD. Because after the Soma disaster, hundreds, thousands of our citizens have called and told us that they want to help us, and that they want to deliver these aid to those who are suffering from disaster, and they've applied to us. When we told them to help the AFAD account, and when we directed it and recommended it, many citizens said that they did not trust the AFAD and the government, that they were concerned that their help would be achieved. This is confirmed by official authorities. However, we have explained to our citizens and to the public that we have also benefited from this cash donation through an official channel. Why does this nation not trust us and the government with this cash money?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0299par0204	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Tax exceptions are provided to promote aid campaigns launched by the Articles and the Prime Ministerate or the Council of Ministers. Cari legislation states which of the same benefits are covered by tax cuts. The legislation covering the victims and assistance of natural disasters is as broad as it can be with this law and is intended to cover the assistance initiated by the Prime Ministerate or the Council of Ministers. The AKP government's contact with capital groups and interest groups has always been ahead of the Turkish political agenda. It is a fact that many of the methods and tools the AKP government prefers in domestic and foreign policy are unlawful and illegitimate today. The practice of expanding its political influence and providing resources to its constituent political organizations has been revealed many times under the name of the association and the NGO. Foreign policy has been known to provide logistical support, especially for gang-related formations, which have been sent to this association and other NGOs. Today, the group is widely believed to be supported by the AKP government. This clause will be able to pressure the capital sector towards preferential use in this area, as it is intended to fund all illegal and illegitimate activities. With change, these problems are intended to be resolved. I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 96: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 639 Orders Numbered Law Bill 96. In the article, we propose and propose that the terms of higher education be changed to the terms of the terms of the law. İhsan Özkes Osman Oktay Sokshi Mehmet Ali Sesam Haluk Ahmet Silver Ayşe Nedret Akova Levent Gök Congressmans, now that I have two motions that I'm going to read, I'm going to process them together, I'm going to promise the motions, or I'm going to have them read their reasons. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 96 of Law Bill 639 be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay Ali Halaman Ali Alum Light Ali Öz Mustafa Kalaycı Cemadın Simsek The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Hasip Kaplan Sebahat Tuncel Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0300par0233	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0299par0234	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0301par0235	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0299par0236	Kayseri MP Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0302par0239	Mr. President, I'm going to make a brief statement because we've spoken to friends in the AKP Group -- there's a discrepancy in this article. So we also reached a certain agreement on how to fix this. And since it can't be fully determined at the moment, hopefully they'll be renegotiated after the 48th article of the law, because it's being used here as a statement that says: "This is the date and this is the number of students of higher education who have chosen at least two members of every academic faculty from the 20th Article of the Law, if there are already a number of students from the academic boards, who have chosen a number of schools from each of the universities, who have already chosen a number of schools, but in fact, the expression is very accurate, and it's changing immediately, and its expression is changing as this way. To do that, it needs to be saried, made clear. So it's a great benefit to have this bag re-examined after the full discussion of the law, and it's a benefit because the previous article is the correct expression of each seminary from its own faculty because it says that their academic boards will choose, as well, but it's true, but it's just wrong to leave it to the dean, so it's not only with members chosen by the dean, it's useful to be appointed by the members of the academic boards to be appointed by the President of Diet Affairs. Our friends told us this was going to be a debate. I handled it so he'd be on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0303par0243	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. This motion restricts the right of the government to send representatives to the Candidate Register Board, tasked with identifying 24 candidates who will be appointed to be members of the High Council of Religious Affairs of theological faculty. In the current form of the law, each university of theology gives the board two members, arguing on academic boards. The government, on the one hand, restricts the rights of the seminary faculty, while predicting that the names will be decided by the deans, not by the academic boards. And that would be an anti-democratic practice. This motion aims to remove this anti-democratic practice from the text of the law. I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 639 Orders Numbered Law Bill 96. In the article, we propose and propose that the terms of higher education be changed to the terms of the terms of the law. Ihsan Özkes (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0304par0253	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0303par0254	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0305par0255	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0303par0256	İstanbul MP İhsan Özkes will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0306par0258	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs regarding the 96th article of the agreed-upon bag law. I salute you all. He orders an article to a religious professor, the teacher prepares the article, but he does not like this article, and says to the teacher: "Hocam, make the Quran speak according to our expectations." There is a language that says, "Let God speak according to our expectations." Although the professor had written an article on the Internet on the subject, the religious authorities were silenced. On Friday, December 20, 2013, the subject of the sermon will be read at Istanbul mosques. The text of the Hutbe is published on the website, but it is reported that when the 17 December bribes and corruption operation takes place, religious officials' phones will be withdrawn from the reading of the border on the subject of violence and will be read in its place.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0307par0261	It's a hit, Hajji. It's a hit.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0308par0262	Whoever understands the Quran does not take bribes.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0306par0263	Is understanding the Qur'an a deterrent of religious judgments about bribery? Today, I received many calls from Skopjedar, saying that government officials and municipal workers were being pressured to make a donation. Allah will surely question you concerning the wrong-doing, if you are believers.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0309par0265	Teacher, why don't you come out one day and give a speech without Mr. Recep? Don't you have to talk about the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0310par0266	He doesn't have any other capital.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0309par0267	Why are you talking about something else?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0311par0268	Mr. Recep, shut up. Defense, defense of bribery, Mr. Recep.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0312par0269	No small talk, please.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0313par0270	Dear God...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0314par0271	Because he doesn't have any other capital.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0313par0272	Dear God...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0315par0273	You don't have any capital, Hajji, you know? Teacher, you don't have any capital.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0313par0274	Mr. President, will you shut him up?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0316par0275	What do you object to the law of understanding the Qur'an? Why do you object to understanding the Quran? Why do you object to the judgment of the Quran?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0313par0276	Mr. President, would you shut him up? You're welcome.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0317par0277	Go ahead, go ahead, Hajji.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0316par0278	He's objecting to the judgment of the Quran! For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0313par0279	So let's not talk here unless Ihsan Ozkes is asked to speak. I'm not a congressman?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0318par0280	Mr. President, can you stop time?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0319par0281	Mr. Speaker, wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0313par0282	You're welcome, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0319par0283	Mr. Speaker...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0313par0284	That's enough!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0319par0285	So why are you yelling at me?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0313par0286	Shut him up. So I'm not a congressman? Don't I have the right to speak?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0319par0287	Am I a class rep, or am I supposed to write the speakers on the board? I can only ask.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0313par0288	What is it?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0320par0290	What are you yelling about?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0313par0291	What is the matter with you?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0321par0292	Did you come here to yell?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0322par0293	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0313par0294	Would you please shut him up, I want to talk to him. This is the people's stand, I'll talk.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0322par0295	Go ahead, talk, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0313par0296	Please add that time.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0323par0297	Do you listen a lot as we speak? For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0313par0298	The great God says to the thief (4/Nisa, 107) and Hz. To Muhammad and to all Muslims in his person, "Don't side with traitors, thieves." It's on its way. And cut off the hands of the thieves, both men and women, as punishment for their theft, and an example from Allah. It's on its way. (5/Maide, 38) The Holy Prophet Muhammad is the one who gives and the one who gives, the one who gives, the one who is the one who is the damned, the one who is the dweller of hell. If my daughter Fatima steals, I will cut off her hand. She commands it. There's no place for a thief in Islam. You can't be a Muslim or a thief, you can be a Muslim or a thief.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0324par0300	Why do you take it personally, if you're not?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0313par0301	Arinc, who does not complain about bribes, thefts, and corruption, is a major sin and immorality, exaggerates women's laughter. Two days before the March 30 elections, Friday, the ship was read by the president of the Bible himself. It is said that stealing, bribery, and the practice of corruption which Allah has forbidden are like drilling into a ship which has been broken by Allah, so do not touch those who eat it, and do not make noise, and the ships are turned into floating ships. It was adapted to the whims of God's religious power by coercion, coercion, without the meaning of Muhammad's act. Let's see, before the presidential election, what kind of sermon will be read on Friday (August 8th)? Is it going to be a Muslim law or a parallel religion of adornment? "I came and went to the next world, vote for Erdogan on August 10th." he says. He must have met the hellhounds there. Erdoğan, in his speech in Tokat Erbaa...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0325par0306	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0313par0307	"We don't say goodbye to each other, it's not goodbye, it's basabadelmev, it's the beginning of the resurrection after death." he says. It's a light term for him to compare his politics to his resurrection on the Day of Judgment, but if the President is elected, there will be an apocalypse for our country.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0325par0308	Mr. Ozkes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0326par0309	That's not a sentence! He's insulting...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0313par0310	A rotation is a persecution for religious officials who have had a hard day's vacation a week, who are on duty during holidays.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0327par0311	Get out of here! Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0328par0312	Mr. Ozkes... thank you, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0313par0313	You made a promise, but you didn't put in the deputy imams.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0327par0314	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0329par0315	Is it up to you? Is it up to you to defend the teachers?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0330par0316	Mr. Ozkes...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0331par0317	Even though you've included everything in this bag law, you've taken away the teacher's amenities by excluding proxy imams.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0330par0318	Mr. Ozkes, you're out of words, you're out of time. Please...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0331par0319	The one who cut off the head, raped the woman...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0332par0321	Mr. President, aren't you listening?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0331par0322	He didn't tell ISIS, who destroyed the mosques, the shrines, nor did he see the terrorists.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0333par0323	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-08-06sit06spe0334par0324	I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0334par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 130th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The commission is here. The government is here. We stayed in the vote of the petition of İstanbul MP Ihsan Ozkes and his friends on the 96th article. Now, I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. In Article 97, there are three motions of the same nature, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 639th Article of the Common Law, dated 19/3/1969, be removed from the draft text of Article 97, which stipulates the regulation of Article 112 of the Law. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Hasip Kaplan Sebahat Tuncel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 97 of Law Bill 639 be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay Ali Halaman Ali Alum Light Ali Öz Mustafa Kalaycı Cemadın Simsek Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 639 Orders Numbered Law Bill 97. We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. The Great Altay Levent Sky Fatma Nur Serter Chooses Vahap Ali Serindağ Mehmet Ali Sesam Ayşe Nedret Akova Haluk Ahmet Silver Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0335par0030	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0334par0031	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0336par0032	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0334par0033	Mr. Levent Gök will speak on the motion, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0337par0035	Mr. President, I've taken a pledge on Article 97 of Law Bill 639 that we're discussing. I salute you all with love and respect. I really haven't been able to interpret how this stuff could have been put in this bag of legislation until now. We have a lot of dear lawyer friends I know in the AKP, friends we really admire, but I don't understand how to put such a clear clause into the Constitution and how lawyers can get custody of the Bar Association, which is the top institution of a very sacred profession, such as defense. Dear lawmakers, with the motion brought in, you're bringing in the conditions for publication in the Official Gazette, when the regulations that the AKP has adopted and the Bar Association has changed must be approved immediately after it has been sent to the Ministry of Justice. If the Department of Justice returns it and the Association of Bars accepts two thirds of the time again, you bring up the terms of publication in the Official Gazette, and most importantly, you try to prevent the conditions of testing with this clause, which the Association of Bars has introduced into law enforcement and employment. But is it that easy? Look, valued lawmakers, the Association of Bars has put into consideration the following issues that require a test of admission and employment to the internship. There are 72 law schools in Turkey, including five in Cyprus, according to my findings. Law schools are now -- we want them all equipped, of course, education and faculty really qualified -- but most of them, unfortunately, they're being trained with researchers, and from here, many of the students who have not been raised by professors, professors of law school, and professors are immediately becoming lawyers -- are also causing a lot of conflicts in the field of law. In 2001, the total number of lawyers, 44,000, has now reached 82 thousand. In 2001, the population of Turkey was 67 million, now 74 million, the population increased by 14 per cent, but the number of lawyers increased by close to 100 per cent. Now, look, what happens if the lawyers don't get enough training? There's a lot going on with lawyers, too. They're missing the appeal, they're filing a wrong suit, they're making mistakes in other matters, their clients are being victimized, and lawyers are being tried in criminal courts, and they're paying a very high price, and they're being suspended. The League of Bars has provided an exam in the field, looking into it. It was really important. In Germany, for example, when lawyers finish law school, they undergo another five years of training. Once again, after finishing school in Austria, lawyers have completed one education and five separate exams, they can only become lawyers after two years of internship training. Now, my dear friends, when the Bar Association's amendment was not published in the Official Gazette, the Bar Association filed a lawsuit and Ankara 10th. A decision has been made to halt the execution by the ruling court's decision 2014/452. About what? It's about the implementation of the regulation. Now what are we discussing? So this case is a lawsuit against the Bar Association's decision to enter the law we discussed through the examination, Ankara 10. It's seen in the Supreme Court, and it's still going on. Now, what does our Constitution tell us? Article 138 of our Constitution states that there is no question about the use of judicial authority in the Legislative Assembly about a case that is being held, no discussion, or any statement made.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0338par0041	This isn't about him, Mr. Levent, then there's no law.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0337par0042	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, we're here to discuss the law, let alone the negotiations. I mean, it's against the 138th Amendment of the Constitution. You think you're going to take lawyers, but all lawyers, a lot of lawyers, I'm on my side, and I'm a friend of lawyer's background, and Molierac's saying, "When we're doing our duty, we're not subject to anyone, no client, no judge, no power. We don't claim that there are people below us, but we don't know any hierarchical superiors. Seniority is no different than seniority. Lawyers didn't use prisoners, but they didn't have masters. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0339par0045	Thank you. Under Article 97 of the bill, the government shall oversee the regulations of the Union of Bars of Turkey. Turkey's Association of Bars must be removed from the draft text of this provision aimed at controlling the Governing Body. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0340par0051	Dear friends, I believe the right to defend is a sacred right, especially in this period of time, a very important area where everyone is in need and everyone can face it. We call it the independent judiciary, the independent judiciary has a trilateral hair; the argument, the defense -- the equality of weapons in these two is a very serious event -- and a trial. Now, we're looking, the government is in real trouble with HSYK. How do we choose the members? You want the council to choose? How can he choose his own members? You're in serious trouble with HSYK right now; it was a parallel investigation, there were no investigations there... but there are labour trade organizations in democracies, there are public institutions; financial advisors are, TMMOB, engineering rooms were. But there are several very important labour and occupational organizations that this government is fighting about, TMMOB is one of them. You destroyed the Turkish Chamber of Architects and Engineers and the Union -- hundreds of thousands of different department engineers -- including those of which, with a last-minute motion to bring in and limit control authority here -- to do such serious work on the government with their reports. It's not a democratic understanding, it's a silence of what's not mine. It's an understanding. And then it wasn't enough, in all the oppressive times, since Napoleon, lawyers have always bothered, lawyers have bothered in the coups, lawyers have done their duty for the right to a fair trial in democratic societies. You started putting incredible things in this bag of law. The League of Bars will issue an internship regulation, there is a judicial decision, but you go around the Constitutional Court's decisions, violation of the 138, contrary to the Civil Code, and you bring in motions without passing the Justice Commission, and you act on a political merit. You're doing it wrong, while the defense... it's imperative that the Bar Association do so, just as financial advisors count their own internships and professions. Because you've opened so many schools in Turkey that there are graduates from schools outside -- just now Mr. Gök has given me the numbers, I won't enter -- there's an arrangement here. Even you take the exams, the people who enter the KPSS, and then you interview after them. Then why are you guys doing this? Why are you interviewing me? He's getting 95 on the KPSS test, you don't like his type, his mustache doesn't match, his sideburns don't match, his hair doesn't fit, his clothes don't fit, you look right at him, he's almond, he's what, he's getting picked up or something. This understanding does not suit a democratic society, friends of Turkey, where 77 million live. Believe me, Napoleon was very disturbed by the lawyers, he said he had to cut off his tongue. The Prime Minister immediately quarrelled over a speech from the Turkish Bar Association. We're looking at it from behind... we said, "Don't do it, guys, you've brought this law, so what happens when you stretch it, and you'll always be in power? Yeah, you might think we'll stay for a hundred years, but you never know what these people are gonna do. Look, I'll tell you something else: for two years, you're bringing the law in here so the courts don't have to decide whether or not to stop running. It's terrifying. You're bringing in a law so five privatisations don't get cancelled. You're playing with the law, you're playing with justice, but this law, this justice... you've established these investigative commissions, look, the commission for the investigation of the Prime Minister has come and been read. I mean, when all this happens, the Prime Minister needs a lawyer, he already has lawyers. He's suing everyone, there's no lawmakers left without trial. What do you want with these lawyers, brother? You're bringing in the law so he doesn't have to study the case. I mean, it's not really acceptable. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, if Mr. Prime Minister is the owner of the bill, you have to worry about whether he'll veto it or not.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0341par0059	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. In Article 98, there are three proposals of the same nature, which I will carry out with me, and I will promise those who have motions in the form of demands. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 98 of the current 639 Numbered Law Proposal be removed from the proposal of the law. İdris Bauken Nazmi Gür Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tunnel Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 98 of Law Bill 639 be removed from the draft text. Haydar Akar Musa Pine of Rahmi Love Fatma Nur Serter Vakap elects Mehmet Ali Sesam İstanbul Mersin İzmir to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 98 of Law Bill 639 be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay Ali Halaman Ali Alum Light Ali Öz Mustafa Kalaycı Zuhal Topcu Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0342par0080	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0341par0081	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0343par0082	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0341par0083	Mr. Zuhal Topcu will speak on the motion, Ankara MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0344par0086	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Nationalist Movement Party on Article 98 of the Law on the Amendment to Business Law 639 and Some Laws and Laws and the Reconstruction of Some Acquisitions. We salute you all. Believe me, it's almost a month away, there's nothing showing up. My son reads the building, turns around, reads it again. He is still being beaten in the air like this. In particular, when we look at the work that has been done for 12 years, we can look at the work that has been done, and we can see in particular that the 98th article of this bill has been changed on March 2014, and it has been added in order to be replaced again. Now there's no way we can't not look behind this on purpose. So, when you're on your way, especially in Soma, you're on your way to eliminate a situation that upsets us all again, and when you look at it, you can see that it's beyond its purpose, and that it's actually a new structure that can serve some of the bad things that are no longer vague and no longer truthful, and that some of the parties may serve to be structured. If this really were to be considered the removal of problems for Soma, or the problems for our very dear brothers and sisters who work in mines, there have been thousands of mining accidents in the tens of years of power, and thousands of our employees here, who have lost their jobs in the mines -- what would have to be done for 12 years instead of removing this bag if it had been purely intentional? The precaution needed to be taken, and in the past Ramadan Day, those children would not have been left without a father, and now, I don't know, instead of the charitable efforts to distribute houses or, you know, give bonuses, or save the situation at work, here's how we can get more votes, especially for the presidential elections, and instead of calling out to the consciences, we can see how we can actually get more votes, and if there were solutions like this, it wouldn't have been negative situations, but it's not good intentions, it's not good intentions, it's not good intentions, and it's not good intentions, and behind that, we can see how we can get a lot of the government's secret business behind this, especially if we're able to do it. So, as I've just said, when we look at this new clause as the 98th article, we can see that it was passed on March 1, 2014. In addition to the requirements of the State Officers' Law in order to be appointed as a teacher, there are conditions for graduating from higher education institutions established under regulations and succeeding in the examinations conducted by the Ministry and the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement. What are you doing here? Now, what do you really intend to do here? There is a huge right-to-right process for our young candidates who have passed a giant test, such as KPSS. After working for those kids for a year, you say, "What are we going to do to get you out of teaching? We will submit to the test. Who will submit to this test? ▪ The Ministry or the Centre for Measurement and Placement says. Who's going to take the stand at the Ministry? So, is it verbal or written here? The Ministry will decide that. Well, if your intentions are honest, do you have the right to victimize these young people who have been working for a year? Believe me, during the entire festival, we've been bombarded by exposed classroom teachers, exposed computer teachers, philosophy teachers, fucking tweet Τ, what would be the solution. But what we see is that power can be a real goal, rather than actually solving it, is to keep themselves in power and prepare services for the allies. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0345par0092	Thank you, too, Mr. Topcu. Mr. Kaplan, will you speak?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0346par0094	Briefly.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0345par0095	Here you go. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0346par0097	Dear friends, I don't like to talk at this hour, but you're forcing us. When a clause comes in which 350,000 teachers expect to be appointed, the people's Democratic Party has no conscience to say, "Talk, shut up, read the reason, throw it away." Now, we're -- we're being very clear -- he's got an appointment of 35,000 teachers, 10,000, 40,000 -- thousands of teachers waiting. They're looking for us every day. They're looking for you as the ruling party MP. Now, if you're a member of those teachers' rights, forced teachers to join your own unions in public unions... we're looking at them like a bunch, not just, not just, not just, not fair, not a moral approach, if you're a member of the government, if you're a member of those teachers. This threat is not a democratic approach, it's not just, it's not just, it's not a moral approach. I don't know if there's any other power that can really be so cruel to teachers. I will be a slave to him who taught me a letter. I will make him who taught me a letter. He is transformed into one. After that, there's a mandatory rotation, as well as a reduction of autonomy rights. What do you guys want to do? You haven't had an Ideological staff in 12 or 13 years? All the government, all the staff... you've made a bag of laws, and when the law comes into effect, all the national education directors and assistants will cease to function. You've issued a law form, you've become what you want, you've got what you want. There's no point in pushing this every day, let the teachers manage different opinions, whether it's the manager or the assistant manager, in their social areas, in their own cities, in their own areas. I mean, that's how we read it, when we still see our teachers, we button up, we kiss your hand. So this is to reduce the hostility of a teacher to an ideological axis, and in exams, we know about your oral exams, friends, especially after you've disabled the SNSM. So really, if you guys want to do it right in the interview, in the oral exams, we told you, if you want to do it right, why don't you just record these on a camera, and let people see what kind of people are being mocked and asked questions. So let him have the ability to search for rights. I was wronged, I passed such a test, they made fun of me. Let him go to judgment. You're taking away that right, and you're shutting it down. Now, we've come to understand that in line with your ideological policy of political staffing, you're playing a front game with the parallel, you're playing a serious scam. When we put the TERGEEV Foundation, the education foundation, then the forgiveness of the land, the private foundation universities, their graduations, a whole new staff... now, as we commercialise education, while we commercialise education, is it a conscientious thing to play with teachers, friends? So when you really think about driving a teacher, you take a teacher from a metropolis like Istanbul, for God's sake, who lives in Silivri, and go to work at Eagle, Pendik. What does that mean? There's kids going to school, there's a social life, there's maybe a house he's paid in installments, a house he's paid for. Now, will you tell that teacher to go to Kartal, Pendik, and send him away in thirty-five minutes? So let the Ministry of National Education actually consult these problems, where there are millions of teachers, listen to different unions, organisations, and bring a solution to them. It's not a bag of legal stuff, guys, it's a very serious thing. It's a huge community, we're talking about the problems of our children's teachers. You open up the way to recruit, you open up the way to be partisan, you pressure the students according to their political status, you let them go, you drag them out, you cut off the relationship between the school and the university, then education liberalism, that's, that's, that's... No, guys, that's not an approach. I mean, why bring these laws in here without consulting on their own commissions? You're all through the Plan and Budget Commission. It's not right, we don't accept that approach. We're saying the substance needs to be removed. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0347par0103	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. İstanbul MP Nur Serter will speak on the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0348par0107	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are now signing a scandal in terms of the actual lawmaking technique. I'd like to share with you why he signed up for a scandal and how it would escape the attention of the Minister of National Education. Mr. Secretary, you know, it's just been expressed, we've made an arrangement after long discussions about this clause in March, and you've agreed to a written and verbal test for the transition from candidate teacher to teacher, which is both written and verbalized, and such an arrangement has been made. A few months have passed, and now you're reassigning the substance that we discussed in those days as written and/or verbal testing. One, I'd really like to know why. Mr. Secretary, but I'm saying something more important now: you're going to come to the General Assembly and change the same clause again as written or verbal test in Article 24 of the Law Bill 615, which was withdrawn because the bag came later. Then why are you changing this substance today? It is stated in Article 24 of this bill, which you will change again when Bill 615 comes to Parliament. This is the proper arrangement, the proper arrangement, which is brought with 615. The written or verbal test is correct, the right is in line with justice, but it is necessary to constantly occupy the Parliamentary General Assembly by changing a clause of a law three times in a row, I think, by you, and by the National Education bureaucrats to be aligned. It's shameful, it's inappropriate, it's scandalous. You're going to change one rule of law today, after the House opens, you're going to change it again with another law. Then why are you changing it? Besides, Mr. Secretary, we've had a long discussion about how the verbal exam could be a problem. Now, please don't pay attention to those who whisper in your ear, don't care, don't let yourself be misled. Look, you're getting a candidate teacher under the name of the oral exam, and you're taking an oral test on what? The concept, the summation, the ability to express, the ability to reason, the ability to communicate, self-confidence, persuasion, openness to scientific and technological advances, the ability to represent and train in public. Tell me, for God's sake, how many hours of verbal testing can you determine the qualities of a human being? How and who will decide whether a candidate who comes before you has all these qualities and whether or not he can be a teacher on this oral test? What does oral or/or written test mean? Sometimes it's verbal, sometimes it's written, and when it's written, and when it's done, it's written, it's written, it's spoken, it's spoken, it's spoken, it can't be done, it's against the equality of opportunity. In the face of failure in the oral exam, the right-seeking routes are closed. No one can prove that they failed the oral exam, but the written exam is on paper, it can be proven. Therefore, I ask you to withdraw this meaningless temporary change that will eliminate the right to appeal, eliminate the equality of opportunity, change over years, regions, circumstances, people, and, in the first place, leave you in the dark. Let the appropriate arrangement be made with the relevant article of Law 615. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0349par0114	Thank you, Mr. Serker. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 99: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 639 of the 639 Numbered Bill of Law be replaced by Article 99 and Article 1 of Article 20/B (a) which is added to Article 20/A after Article 2477. Haydar Akar - A Vahaap Picks the Way of Love Musa Pine Mehmet Ali Sesam Fatma Nur Serter Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and We propose that the 20/B clause "d" be removed from the text of substance, which is expected to be added after Article 20/A to Article No. 99 of the 639 Numbered Law Proposal and Article 2577. İdris Bauken Erol Dora Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Hasip Kaplan Sebahat Tuncel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 99 of the current 639 Orders Numbered Bill be removed from the draft text. Erkan Akçay Ali Halaman Ali Alum Light Manisa Adana Kütahya Ali Öz Jamaletdin Simsek Mustafa Kalaycı Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0350par0138	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0349par0139	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0351par0140	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0349par0141	Mr. Zuhal Topcu will speak on the motion, Ankara MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0352par0144	Mr. President, we have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on Article 99 of Law 639. Yes, in fact, we've been trying to explain since we said that 98 to 99 is actually about the basic problems of education, or rather making the problems of education more complicated. Now, especially when teachers are subject to rotation again, in Article 98, especially when we look at the article, the procedure and the basis for teachers' service and/or optional transfers of municipal or non-instructions are determined by regulations. We can see very clearly that there will now be arbitrary instructions. Now, when we go to the 99th article, we can see that there is a clause in the 99th article that says there can be no objections to the test results and should be in ten days. Now, we know that the results of the exams do not explain the questions. The explanation of the questions, in fact, is one of the things that we could express as feedback, and as one of the ways that children could learn not to make those mistakes again by seeing them, although we constantly raised these test questions, and the last test -- as we have seen -- was not revealed; we could see that the test had been canceled by the court without anyone knowing it. Now, it will be possible for a parent or a student to appeal to any court on the basis of the examination or whether the questions are wrong, but with the explanation of the questions, which is probably not easy with the opportunities that power offers. We don't know what questions are true. That's why the parents are tied up. Now -- Mr. Secretary is here -- especially in national education, we can see the problems pile up like mountains. So, the last time there were scandals, the TEOG exams were canceled twice, the rankings changed, and we can see very clearly that the Ministry of National Education has gone on with this incident and acted as if there were no problems, let alone any apology from these students and parents. In particular, the use of teachers' appointments in these tasks as a regular selection material is now upsetting to the professionals. Every time the elections are coming up, the teachers' staff is declared, especially close to the election, 30 grand, 40 grand. We've learned that planning especially in education planning needs to be done very well. According to OECD figures, we also know that the education system in Turkey, especially with recent changes, has a lack of education, but it will be put aside and appointed as 40,000 teachers on August, as it is now. After the news is reported, an environment has been prepared specifically for teachers to break each other, and reports that psychologically collapse has been regularly reported to the press. While the candidates for teachers were really victims, even in the past weeks, one of the candidates for teachers, one of them, the minister, will now commit suicide. When I told him of a situation in the form of my nephew, the Minister's response was to be taken care of, don't. I think it's actually very important to solve this problem at the root rather than go into these. It is now necessary for certain numbers to be appointed and to not be used as a selection material, both for teachers and for these appointments. For that, national education should no longer be a toy, and it needs to be unexplored, not called an excuse, but a radical change. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0353par0154	Thank you, too, Mr. Topcu. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and We propose that the 20/B clause "d" be removed from the text of substance, which is expected to be added after Article 20/A to Article No. 99 of the 639 Numbered Law Proposal and Article 2577. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0354par0161	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0353par0162	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0355par0163	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0356par0164	Motive...
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0353par0165	I'm reading the reason: Speeding up the judicial process on exams is an important arrangement in these difficult processes to return to. As a matter of fact, after the examinations, after the long trial, the test scores were announced, and the change in the decision to cancel the results of the examination and placements has negatively affected many people's lives. However, it is a violation of the right to a fair trial if the decision is not granted to appeal against the decision to stop the execution. The work cannot be contested on these grounds and on the "d" specified at the time of the request for a halt of the executive." The purpose is to remove the sentence from the article text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 639 of Law Bill Number 639 be replaced by Article 99 and Article 1 of Article 20/B (a) which is added to Article 20/A after Article 2477. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0357par0174	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0353par0175	Government?
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0358par0176	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0353par0177	İstanbul MP Nur Serter will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0359par0180	Mr. President, I don't know what change we're making in the same law -- since the CPS Act came out today -- I think it should be eight or nine that I can count. Each bag contains a number of changes to the OSYM. It's a very clear proof that the laws are not being properly treated in the course of the law. The NGO is undoubtedly Turkey's most privileged institution. But what you call privileged, as I have shared many times with the Minister, is a privileged institution in scandals. When there's a test that doesn't end in scandal, society becomes confused, surprised, how is it that there's no problem with this test? The president of the CSI is the most privileged administrator because he has immunity. He's protected no matter what he does as a high-ranking public manager with immunity without a legislature. Questions are being raised under the Information Information Act, which is so privileged that the student who takes the test does not have any information or sounds about the questions; in each case, great sacrifices are experienced after each test, but they are protected all the time. See, in June's LYS exams -- perhaps some of you have escaped attention -- our 9.343 students failed to take the test, because they were unable to complete their transactions in the bank due to a misdemeanor or lack of a test. Let's not say 9.343. If you had a child of your own, the meaning of 9,343 would have been a different kind of heart. All of these students could not enter the SNSM even though they had petitioned and told them that they had deposited their tuition. Twenty-three of these students have failed to take the exam, 23 of whom have applied to the National Ministry of Education applications. You know what this is? In schools, the principals and teachers process it. I mean, even because the principal and the teacher were missing and the procedure was wrong, these 23 kids weren't taken. We met with the Minister at this time, and we asked him, and he said he was leaning on the matter. But you know why they weren't taken? Because the CSI said that the exam brochures were inadequate and that they couldn't be reprinted, the SNSI President couldn't get them because he couldn't afford to print them in another printer. Of the 9,3343 children, eight have applied to the court. Only those eight were put to the test, so the judgment justified them. But the rest of them, who couldn't apply, were prevented from coming a year, maybe more years, and walled up in front of them. What does that mean? This shows that those who still hold the president of that institution privileged still have a picture to share that responsibility with. Do you know how many of those eight kids they won from the people who went in with the trial? They won medical schools, they won the best schools. These 9,3343 children should have been called by the Minister of National Education first. It's not enough to be sad, it's not enough to be sad, it's the manager's job to make the responsible do their duty. The head of an institution such as the CSI has no right to block and steal the future of 9.343 children. If I were such an executive, I wouldn't keep him there one day, but one more day, I'd fire him to keep him from harming a single student. I would condemn someone who made a mistake so often for not forgiving a mistake that would cost the students their lives. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit07spe0360par0186	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-08-06sit08spe0360par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 130th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion, and I'm going to read it: The following proposal was deemed appropriate for the General Assembly's approval at a meeting Wednesday (April 6/8/2014). Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is the Vice President of the Vice President's Group. Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is the Vice President of the Vice President's Group. It was suggested that the General Assembly not meet on Thursday (August 7, 2014) and not work on Friday (August 8, 2014), which was agreed to work ahead of schedule. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with Human Rights Review Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which are part of the 5th agenda, in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the disabled. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the Commission will no longer be found, it is Tuesday (August 12th) that we will discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Tuesday (August 12th). I'm closing the meeting at 00. I wish all my fellow lawmakers and staff, the press, a happy holiday.
