tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 80th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now we'll read the Istrillal March. [[Identical March]] Congressmans, Mr. President has honored our great House of Honor by taking its place in the audience box. I welcome them in the name of our coven. [[Applause]] And welcome to our guests. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, in accordance with the decision made in the 77th Union of the General Assembly, dated 16/4/2014, we move to talks to celebrate the 94th anniversary of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day and the significance of the day. Members of parliament, as the Turkish nation, we celebrate and celebrate the 94th anniversary of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On this occasion, I honor and praise all of our veterans and martyrs, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, leader of our national struggle, and veterans of our first House. These heroes of our national struggle have left us with an honorable history and a glorious past, always giving our hearts great hopes and thrills. On April 23, 1920, Turkey was the leader of the new Turkish state in Anatolia as well as the opening date of the Grand National Assembly. Our nation made a new start in Anatolia, ninety-four years ago, and every member of our nation must understand the deep meaning of April 23rd. The flag has been lifted from its place, with all kinds of threats and difficulties, and new horizons have opened up in the future of the Turkish nation. As it was announced to the entire world that we could never give up our freedom and independence, after the heroic struggle against imperialist and muslim forces, Anatolia was restored to peace and quiet. Our national struggle, which began from Samsun, under the leadership of Gazi Mustafa Kemal, resulted in a blessed victory when the enemy was thrown into the sea in İzmir. The heroes of our ultimate struggle have written a great epic in those difficult conditions. The heroes of this epic will always live in our hearts and in our history. At that time, when dark clouds fell upon Asia Minor, hope lit torches and brought our nation out of darkness into the light. The lamps they lit in Ankara have rained down on the enemy like fireballs on various corners of Anatolia, in the Inönon, and have destroyed the invaders. For the last century and a half, they've been trying to stumble and stumble and try to get the Turkish nation back on its feet, trying to make a strong path for it. They have made an effort to make Turkey a developed modern country, to bring the wealth of independence, republic and democracy into our country. They have fought to bring the gains of the modern world into our country, to dominate science, production, industry, wealth and development in our country. Dear MPs, ninety-four years ago, our House opened with great excitement. After prayers and prayers at Haci Bayram Mosque, our Assembly began its work. He held his first meeting, accompanied by tears of 115 MPs, whose hearts were broken and whose ears were on the news from all over Asia Minor. On that day, as the oldest member, Sinop MP Sheriff Avkan Bey, in full and utter independence from our nation, I am declaring to the world that our nation has taken direct responsibility for its destiny and begun to govern itself. I am opening the Grand National Assembly with address and repentance, and the MPs accompanied this historic event with light in their eyes and hearts. Our Veteran Assembly has ruled and succeeded in our national struggle. From time to time, the heroic legislators of our first coven worked at the front for the future of our nation in Parliament. They've never done anything to our nation's hopes and interests, but they've fought in that fire with a national sensibilities. While the MPs were fighting on the frontline, they also created the infrastructure of the new state with faith in independence, passed the law, accepted our national anthem. We are proud of the great achievements of the heroes of our national struggle, the 115 MPs who could come to Ankara in the harsh conditions of the period, and the nameless heroes of our Imperial War. Their actions will always be said, told in our history, and will guide us as landmarks. We will continue to learn from their actions and their thoughts, to develop our democracy, and to strive for our country to join the ranks of modern countries. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has taken significant distances on its road to troubled civilization. He developed his democracy, institutionalized it, strengthened the superiority of national will, turned it into a functioning system. But it's a fact that in the course of history, progress has not stopped, and democracies have been monocled, evolving towards more liberal interpretations and practices. We need to catch this, too, or we may be at risk of falling behind the age. One of the most important problems ahead of us is how we can develop our democracy, how law is completely dominant, how we can build a political structure that is multi-partisan, pluralistic, and representational. In a more democratic and liberal understanding of social problems, we can find solutions based on law. We can solve our problems within a high level of understanding, understanding of respect, trust, and tolerance of the common mind. We need this, and we can all build it together. This is the only way we can move our democracy forward, strengthen our social peace. Therefore, it is our common responsibility to leave them with a better future and a better democracy as the only country to present the opening of the House to their children as a holiday, and that is a sin on us. We have to make the best of the legacy that comes to us from our past, leave a beautiful country for our children. They will do better than us, and they will build a more advanced and prosperous country. They will build a structure where there are no problems such as poverty, political, economic and religious informality, where democratic channels operate freely. Because the continuation of our state, the survival of our nation, the guarantee that the Republic of Turkey will be a shareholder forever is our children and our young ones. Our future will be shaped in their hands. They will rule tomorrow's more peaceful and bright Turkey, and they will deepen and immortalize our brotherhood. With these thoughts, I most sincerely celebrate the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of our nation and our future children, the first President of our Parliament, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his fellow soldiers, the veterans of our first Assembly, all the MPs who have served our democracy, our country, the nameless heroes of our national struggle, our veterans and martyrs. Members of parliament, I will now make a ten-minute commitment to the leaders of the political party groups represented by the Turkish Grand National Assembly and to the leader of the political party, which does not have a group. I read the order: Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, chairman of the Justice and Development Party and Parliament Group, MP Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Chairman of the Republican People's Party and Chairman of Parliament, İstanbul MP Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu, Chairman of the National Movement Party and Parliament Group Chairman Osmaniye MP Mr State Gardenli, Chairman of the Peace and Democracy Party and Chairman of the Parliament Group Mr Hakkari MP Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, Deputy Minister of the Group Iğdir Buldan, President of Peoples' Democratic Party, Mr. The first statement is for Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, chairman of the Justice and Development Party and Chairman of Parliament Group. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0002par0027	Mr. President, Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, I salute your delegation with love and respect, and I congratulate the 94th anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with the utmost emotion. I wish that Turkey and all the children of the world, National Sovereignty and Children's Day, would be a blessing. I once again remember Gazi Mustafa Kemal, the first president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and all the MPs in the first Parliament to drive and run our Liberation War, with mercy and gratitude. I give thanks to all of our parliamentarians, our country and our nation, who have served for the nation under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for 90 years. Mr. President, when the First World War ended and the Ottoman Empire was invaded, the last time the capital city of Istanbul fell, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was set up as a hope for salvation in Ankara. On April 23, 1920, when the Grand National Assembly of Turkey opened, it was left unclear whether the Assembly was a founding parliament or a parliament equipped with extraordinary powers within the Ottoman state. In a telegram announcing the opening of the parliament, Gazi Mustafa Kemal said the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was above civilian and military authorities. The decision of parliament as the highest authority and authority before it was declared a republic in Turkey on that day was a major innovation. Gazi Mustafa Kemal repeatedly stressed that Turkey is the highest authority in the Grand National Assembly at every stage of its life, always pointing to Parliament as the solution to each issue. I must say, in fact, the 90-year history of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been the scene of this great debate. The people adopted the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation with great enthusiasm, always believed in it and trusted it. The public has always embraced the Turkish Parliament as its own institution, as its own representative, and has always maintained a conversation. However, parliament remained a position where it had to share its power for the one man, for those eager to become dictators, for those who look down on the public and the public's preferences, and for the communities. Some happy and privileged people have not been able to stomach the removal of sovereignty from one person to one group and hand it over to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Ninety-four years, that's what he's been fighting for. Military coups, bureaucratic coup attempts, postmodern coups, judicial coups, weakening the people's assembly, taking power over the people and building their own power. I am proud to say that the House, despite all its coup and coup attempt, has been preserved by the nation itself as a position that has stood firm in order to establish the sovereignty of the nation. Although ninety-four years have passed, today he knows that there are still those who cannot accept the national sovereignty, the public power, the power of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey above all authorities and authorities, and unfortunately we are experiencing its reflections even today. We're witnessing that some of the institutions that have been established after the coups want to see themselves above the House's national will. We see that gangs, illegal structures, dark organizations, mean and live for their own personal and organizational interests by disregarding the House and its national will. In the same way, we're witnessing that those who see themselves above everything with their pen or capital in their hands are in love with the Parliament and the rule of national will. As there have been for 90 or four years, we see today that the House wants to be silenced, to be pressured, by the hand of judgment, bureaucracy, or by creating violence in the streets. Looking down on the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a custom of ninety-four years ago -- to investigate the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to weaken, to ignore the republic, to exclude the republic. On April 23, 1920, this Parliament was established as a founding parliament. As a matter of fact, it was this Parliament that founded the republic. Everyone in and out of this House must accept that the House is the highest authority, that it is now digested, that it should refrain from committing to non-accession. Attempts to ignore parliament, weaken parliament are no longer just attempts at armed coup, but other vehicles can replace weapons in the modern world, and these vehicles can be used as an attack device against Parliament by Parliament and the dissatisfaction of national will. We've experienced this a few weeks ago. We've seen that social media can be a means to attack a national will in the hands of evildoers. We've seen how illegally obtained audio recordings, audio editing, blackmail images created by entering and spying on people's privacy target the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Sadly, we've seen political paws co-operating and conspiring with focal points from outside Turkey, meaning the Grand National Assembly over and over again, as they've been doing throughout their history. What happened before and after April 23, 1920 happened in these last few months. The country's President, Prime Minister, Chief of Staff, ministers were targeted. The political parties' headquarters have turned out to be illegally bugged by mayors and are being used as a means of threatening and blackmailing them. It has become clear that our artists, our journalists, our writers have been blackmailed through listening. In fact, the top secret government meeting at the State Department of this country has been heard and audio recordings have been broadcast. Our nation understood the nature of this attack, just as on April 23, 1920, and went back to the chest, as if fighting for independence, once again powering democracy, national will, our House. Once again, our people sided with national will, democracy, and Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Aside from the negatives we've witnessed for 90 or four years, our people have adopted democracy, national sovereignty, election and his chest as an indispensable form of governance. The people's devotion and faith to the national will have grown stronger. In 1947, the ark is our honor. The women of Mersin, who said, "The ark is our honour." They have now established what they call an atmosphere of 77 million people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In addition to ninety-four years of experience, our coven has the excitement, hope, dynamism of April 23, 1920. This is the thrill of walking to the 100th year celebration. Hopefully, in 2020, we will realize the 100th anniversary of the opening of the House and then the 100th anniversary of the founding of our republic in 2023. In our Republic, we will reach the 100th year as one of the world's largest, strongest, most peaceful and stable countries. In the last 12 years, we have worked hard, and Turkey has met with great dreams. In education, health, justice and security, transportation, housing, energy, agriculture and industry, social policies and culture, we gave Turkey the first ones. We've raised Turkey's economy more than three stories in 12 years. We followed a policy in foreign policy that was active, peaceful, standing next to the righteous and the oppressed. For decades, we have reached Turkey, where 77 million walk into the sisterly future from a country that has paid heavy prices for terrorism. For the next nine years, we will continue to strengthen our republic by working harder, producing more, taking more of our democracy and brotherhood. These good people deserve the best and the best of everything. This holy nation, with blood, with life, with sacrifice, takes care of and trusts in it, as it lives, as its child. We will continue to build our future without disappointing our nation, one and all, just as we will. Once again, I'm reminiscing about the precious memory of the First Assembly. I pray to all our martyrs and veterans for mercy from my Lord. Blessed be the 94th anniversary of the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I respectfully salute your committee.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0003par0044	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0004par0045	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0003par0046	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0004par0047	Mr. President, in his speech earlier, Mr. Prime Minister spoke of respect for national will, and as a reflection of the national will, the political parties in this parliament, including the ruling party, collaborated with the foreigners, with the external focus. I couldn't describe his accusation of the day and himself.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0005par0049	There is no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0003par0050	Thank you. Members of parliament, the chairman of the Republican People's Party and the chairman of the Parliament Group, İstanbul MP Mr. Kilicdaroğlu, is now in charge.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0006par0053	Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party, Mr. President, I sincerely wish that this great day be the harbinger of light and peaceful times for our country. Our Republic is the work of the revolutionary staff and the spirit, who trust and respect their people enough to give the world a holiday, to make national sovereignty the crown. In reference to Mustafa Kemal, the chains have melted, the crowns and thrones have been sunk and destroyed in the light of national sovereignty. Members of parliament, it is imperative to understand what the revolutionary staff that founded the republic means by the concept of national sovereignty. Those who try to form a dictatorship by distorting this concept today must first learn from Mustafa Kemal Ataturk (born February 7, 1923) how Mustafa Kemal Ataturk spoke at Balıkesir. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk says: "The national will is not only the thought of one individual, but the composition of the desires and ambitions of all the nations. " The opinion of this great Assembly, which crowns the struggle of a people with independence, is free and free of conscience, and today its members are in a difficult struggle. I am confident that this difficult struggle will be crowned with a true democracy and freedom that reflects the sovereignty of the people. Honorable MPs are a matter of national sovereignty, pluralistic regime, representation of justice and the rule of law. A system where the majority is strong and powerful are right, where citizens are driven by threats of oppression, fear, bans, hatred, poverty, and instability. I'm out of the box, I'll do whatever I want. His understanding of national sovereignty is incompatible with the concept of national sovereignty because national sovereignty is not based on the number of votes that come out of the chest. Sovereignty belongs to the entire nation, to the last of its members. (HPP) To understand and use the numerical majority as dominance is the denial and abuse of national will. Such a form of governance does not apply either to the word "democracy" or "publicity." Democracy is the regime of free citizens, free media, a sense of power that is not trapped in a ballot box. Democracy is the name of the regime they account for every day, not at certain intervals and from the chest to the chest, which is the source of power. The 10 per cent election dam is a product of a warped mindset that ignores national sovereignty, steals representation rights by ignoring our citizens' preferences, and resuscitates everything to stay in power. However, it is openly disrespectful to the nation's sovereignty to reduce the election dam to a condition of accepting a new election system that will result in extremely unfair representation. Unregistered and unconditional sovereignty of the nation cannot be used as a weapon to seize the will of the nation and exclude certain elements of society. Dear lawmakers, where the rule of the superior rules, the nation has no sovereignty. We know that our people use national sovereignty through legislation, executive and judicial bodies. Use this authority alone to the executive body. It will not be said that it has not been called. To maintain a system of non-biased and independent judiciary, where the legislature is neutralized, is to disregard our nation, the source of national sovereignty. Those who create special courts to intimidate society and its opponents, even those who challenge the Constitutional Court when they dislike their decisions and respond to corruption investigations by dynamited the law, have also violated not only the Constitution, but the national sovereignty as well. How can those who view separation of forces as a liability claim to respect the will of the people? That's why we're so upset on this holiday day. I regret to inform you that our Parliament, which owes its presence and dignity to its commitment to the principles of law and legitimacy, has been stripped of its budget control authority. Two years ago in this Parliament, I would like to reacquaint you with a statement I made today: the history of democratization of the Republic of Turkey is the date of defending and expanding the powers of this Parliament. Even today, those who covet the powers of this great assembly should never take it out of their minds. Dear MPs, April 23rd is also the first and only holiday given to children of the world. Societys that depend on freedom, equality, and science can breed the idea free, free generations of conscience, as Mustafa Kemal put it. If we draw our children's horizons with love and honesty, not hatred and hatred, our country will flourish, our country will move forward. We want to raise our children in a science-based, love-filled, hate-free, future-turning education system. We want to raise our children as individuals in harmony with the globalized world, who use communication and communication opportunities effectively and question the world they live in. Because we know that a free and equal future is possible with generations that grow free. Dear MPs, as I end my words this year, on behalf of my group, I dedicate the April 23rd National Sovereignty and Children's Day to the beautiful memory of our young people who sacrificed their lives for their basic rights and freedom, and of Berkin Else, who was buried in the heart of the people of Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0007par0064	Thank you, Mr. Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0008par0065	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0007par0066	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0008par0067	Sir, I advise those who mention the dictatorship to look in the mirror first.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0009par0068	Sit the fuck down!
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0010par0069	For God's sake, there's such a thing as shame!
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0008par0070	Let them look back on your past, and then they'll see the real dictatorship.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0011par0072	Don't talk in front of me.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0012par0073	Hey, guys, guys, guys, I need a minute of your time. We're making a special agenda today.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0008par0074	It is the will of the nation that provides the numerical majority, and we all have to respect the will of the nation. The real disrespect is those who disregard the will of the nation, who disregard the thought, the choice. We do politics for the people, and we exist for the people, not for the people like someone else.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0013par0076	Mr. President, there's no such thing as a procedure.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0012par0077	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0014par0078	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0012par0079	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0014par0080	Sir, look...
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0012par0081	I promise, Mr. Hamzacebi. Friends, today we have a special agenda, a different agenda, a different day. I offer this sensitivity to your appreciation. Please, it would be appropriate to express our thoughts without offending or hurting each other, considering it's a holiday. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0015par0084	Sir, Mr. Prime Minister has accused opposition parties of cooperating with external focus. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] In response, Mr. Engin Altay stood up, made a statement, and said, "I don't think so." Our chairman, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, has made a general assessment, has not mentioned any party names.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0012par0088	Please, friends...
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0015par0089	So you're saying that we built this dictatorship. Is that what you're saying, Mr. Aydın? I don't think it's right for you.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0016par0090	I've said my piece.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0012par0091	Please... It now belongs to the leader of the National Movement Party and the chairman of the Parliamentary Group, Osmaniye MP Mr. State Bahçeli. [[Standing ovations from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Gardenie.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0017par0095	Mr. President, Mr. President, we have gathered in this special merger to mark the 94th anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. At the beginning of my words, I salute you and our fellow saints watching us on their screens. I remember the blessed memory of our Veteran Assembly from a 90-year-old past with joy, prayer, and respect. We think about the meaning and properties of this saintly nation's work, this temple of high democracy. First of all, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a unique manifestation of love and respect for the Turkish nation, a very valuable product of loyalty to the national will, loyalty to the national sovereignty, very clear proof of the importance of legitimacy. The opening of the Grand National Assembly is an epic breakthrough, a decisive step when we consider the terms of its time. As of April 23, 1920, our nation announced its future to the world with its representatives. In the words of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the Grand National Assembly has gathered to defend our right to live against those who wish not to let us live. The course of independence has been shaped and mapped in the middle of Ankara. April 23, 1920 was the most effective answer to the deception and invasion plans in Mondros. April 23, 1920 was the national resistance that anchored the Bosphorus and turned its cannons into the revolutionary capital of the revolution. On April 23, 1920, the most consistent message to guardians and colonial forces, who have been pining for centuries for the invasion of their homeland, pining for Turkish-free Anatolian longing. Without forming his state, the Turkish nation, who had the courage and the vision to open its parliament, defied slavery through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and defied captivity. To stop the painful and painful retreats, he focused on Ankara's goal of independence, the only way to create a new initiative, a new resurrection, and a new beginning. On Friday (April 23, 1920) the door to the first Assembly was opened with the Quran tilaves, the salvatars, the Hatji Bayram Veli Mosque in Ankara on Friday (April 23, 1920). In the stone building of the nation, all our nation's longings, all its dreams, are reflected in the flesh. The sons of nations, who had no intention of living addicts, being pariahs, walking without honor, have become one in Ankara. The nationalist patriots, who rejected captivity and chose to die rather than submit to this, flocked from all over our homeland to Ankara. Sinop Mebusu Bey, who made the opening speech of the First Assembly as the oldest member and also retired from the Maarif Directorate, reveals everything in fact: Our nation, who was determined to live in full independence, who lived forever free and independent, has firmly and decisively rejected this freedom, and has formed the Supreme Assembly, starting immediately to gather its representatives. The Grand National Assembly has voiced its expectations very well as its nation's interpreter and spokesman, who came out of it and assumed power of attorney. Despite the weight of the war conditions, the First Assembly believed in the virtues of democracy, the importance of participation and pluralism. At the same time, this blessed roof was awarded the title of veteran as the dispatch and administrative center of the struggle for salvation. It is a rare, rare fact in history that a country whose land has been invaded, its armies scattered, its people tired, its poor, its people are exhausted, its people are engaged in democracy, its parliament is open, its struggle for wealth. In this respect, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not only an institutional structure that takes away its legitimacy and its will from the nation, but also the national spirit that represents the great Turkish nation's enthusiasm for life, existence, independence and freedom. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we know very well how heavy the duties that we have taken over from our country's homeland are on our shoulders. For those of you who don't know, the courage and inspiration we need to carry out our mission is more than enough in the glorious pages of our history. We can say without question that the MPs in the First Assembly established the link between the past and the future with a sense of responsibility and a great sacrifice. There was a large group of them from the Assembly of Mebusan. They came from all parts of society, from all parts of our country, from every aspect of social and economic life. However, the first Parliament has mixed up the tuition of the Republic of Turkey, dug up its foundations, built its walls. Despite the unrelenting differences, there has been no different and inconsistencies between them in matters of country and nation. In this way, the First Assembly has managed to bring out a nation of states from our empire, which have rotted, melted, and dissolved in years of wars, endless losses, uninterrupted oppression and oppression. In the light of the Islamic gas lamps, the decision was written by the unsistered ink of the brotherhood. The cold of the rooms in the stone building is broken by the fire of faith and love. On telegraph tables, in wooden rows, in narrow corridors, together, the dream of salvation, of happy days. A vow of honor and self-defense has been made in the hot, cold nights of the morning. When we look at the first legislature, we see the Turkish nation, not the meeting of the ethnic coalition, 36, but its high institutions and relics. When we look at the first Assembly, we see real heroes who are forced to come together, not an artificial crowd who are unfamiliar with the purpose of disseminating their local heritage to the collective spirit, but who are in pursuit of the Turkish nation's back. And of course, when we look at the first legislature, we see the high virtues and achievements of Turkish nationalism. I advise everyone to approach the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with this evil eye. Apart from democracy, I call on those who seek out other ways and ways other than national sovereignty to meditate decisively on the meaning and message of the House. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I hereby congratulate you on the holiday of our dear children and of all the children in the world to whom this day is dedicated. I wish for true and lasting peace, peace, happiness and brotherhood. I pray to the great Ataturk, to his friends of the cause, to the honorable members of the First Assembly, and to the saints of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey who are not alive today. As I end my speech, I salute you and our beloved nation, and wish you the blessings of the 94th anniversary of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0018par0109	Thank you, Mr. Gardenie. It belongs to Mr. Pervin Buldan, deputy leader of the Party for Peace and Democracy and Parliamentary Group President Hakkari MP. Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0019par0113	Mr. President, Mr. President, honored MPs, honored guests and dear children, I salute you with respect and love on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Today, on April 23, 1920, we leave the 94th year of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, founded with a pluralist understanding, with great enthusiasm and hope. I celebrate the National Sovereignty and Children's Day of all our children and peoples of Turkey. Of course, such meaningful days should not be avoided only by celebration. It is a historical responsibility to address all aspects of democracy, justice, equality, freedom, the most fundamental issues and shortcomings in the context of freedom. This is April 23rd, as in previous times, where democracy and freedoms have not been settled enough, a pluralist, civilian, democratic new constitution has not been established, democratic political channels have not been fully opened, the process of resolution has not yet evolved into peace. Ninety-four years ago, however, the Grand National Assembly, the Turks, the Kurds, was established according to a pluralistic principle of representation that embraces all differences, and this principle was secured by the 1921 Constitution. The idea of decentralisation, which we need the most today, was clearly part of the 1921 Constitution as a basic principle. However, with the transition to the Constitution of 1924, this pluralism was abandoned. Instead, a single-species, insubordinate, and insubstantial system was replaced. The solid nation state structure built on this system ruled out all the identities and cultures that fought side by side in the establishment of this country, trying to destroy differences one by one. And the bill was too heavy. The system, based on rejection and denial, has caused the people of this country a great deal of disaster. We experienced the worst of these disasters at the Class massacre in 1938. We lost 50,000 people in the conflict caused by the Kurdish problem. Thousands of villages were burned down, tens of thousands of unsolved murders, none of which were accounted for. There's been a series of blows, people being tortured, parties, unions, newspapers closed. Young saplings, Sea Travelers, Hussein Believers, Yusuf Lions, who fought for the free and equal future of this country, were executed. Representatives of the Kurdish people, intellectuals, Mehmet Sincarlar, Muhsin Meliks, Vedat Aydınlar, Ape Musalar were murdered. Dear Hrant Dink, the beautiful man of the Armenian people, one of the most beautiful colors of our country, was murdered. The justice everyone yearns for was never the foundation of the estate. It didn't work for people who were looking for legal rights to work for the government. Judgement has never been a place of justice. In Roboski, most of our children, 34 of our people, were bombed by the fighter planes of this country, not asked about the account, not run by the law. With the 10 per cent antidemocratic election dam, the product of the coup era, the democratic representation of Kurds, opponents, has been constantly blocked in Parliament. In particular, all authoritarian laws, including the Anti-Terror Law, have been set before the freedom of thought, organisation, and politics. Women have experienced the most categorical of inequality and discrimination in this country. The equal and democratic representation of women granted the right to choose and be elected is again blocked by the male dominant understanding of this system and the product of this system. In economic and social areas, this country has suffered severe crises and problems. Poverty, corruption, unemployment, income injustice are increasing day by day. It became almost a policy to abuse public resources, to kill the environment, to kill nature, to destroy the forest area for more Rants. All of this is the result of a democratic, fair, egalitarian, non-sharing, non-privileged, non-responsive, non-responsive, non-responsive, monotheist, guardian system. A Turkey that does not carry out democratic structural reforms according to the needs of the world of our age and the basic demands of its pluralist structure will continue to live with crises that do not transform itself, and will not be a model in its region. Another important point is that in a growing climate of democracy, non-democracy and non-politicism structures have to gain power. If a strong democracy is also intended for an equal, fair and free country, then the only way to create it is to deal with the monotheist, nationalist, authoritarian mentality, which creates nothing but crisis and conflict today from the republic. Unless the solid nation state line is crossed and passed over to the democratic participating nation model, our historical problems will continue to increase and bring with it much larger political, social crises. Dear lawmakers, because of April 23rd, another important thing to focus on is the problems our children face. Imagine the celebration of April 23rd in color, the children in colorful clothes, and on the other hand, children exposed to all kinds of pressures, violence, exploited. What celebrations can we discuss in such an environment? See, in Roboski, 19 children's bodies were torn apart by fighter planes, whose names were not found on this April 23rd. The names of the children who were subjected to rape and torture in prisons are not on April 23rd. The baby Muharrem, whose funeral was carried with a bag on his father's back because his roads were blocked, is not named after his father's son, who was taken to court by his mother's skirt, who had been stabbed with 13 bullets, Uğur Kaymaz, who had been shot with a gas flare for two hundred and sixty-nine days, and who said goodbye to us on 23 April. Today, an unregistered $1 million of kids who are running off the books are holding hammers instead of pencils, and they're holding screwdrivers, and they're not on this April 23rd. Children selling handkerchiefs on the street, painting, being subjected to all kinds of abuse and violence, they're not there on this April 23rd. Children's brides, married as children, are absent on April 23rd, when they should be in school. The five-month-old twin brother, Free and Lorin, who will be going to prison with his mother, will have no meaning in April 23rd. I'd like to ask, are we going to give children a country like this? Is this what we're going to do to our children? Aren't the kids gonna pay for this from the people who run this country? Everyone, in the beginning, has to sit down once more, question himself, and act immediately to create conditions for creating an equal and free world for children. It's a historical and conscientious responsibility. Dear lawmakers, on April 23rd, we would like to repeat from this stand our concrete proposals for a solution to the closure of our democracy deficit and the resolving of our basic problems. Turkey's most basic need is to obtain a pluralist, civilian, democratic, new constitution. Parliament faces this historic task. The TMK, which prevents the representation of the people's will in Parliament, should be removed from the antidemocratic 10% election dam and the obstacle to freedom of thought. All imprisoned, convicted prisoners must be freed for their thoughts and political activities, especially the sick prisoners in the bleeding prisons of this country. The overcentered, authoritarian management system must now be overcome and reforms must be started to transition into a decentralisation system based on democratic participation. The Kurdish problem has more solutions than ever. The dialogue process launched with Mr. Ocalan last year in Imralı is now to be transformed into negotiations and the steps of democratic political solution must be taken without delay. The process of democratic solutions must be brought to a legal status and framework. The pressures on all different beliefs and identities in this country, especially Alevis, must be put to rest, and all different cultures must be guaranteed constitutionally, legally. The ban on education in the native language must be lifted, and children must be taught in their native language. The commission for truth and justice must be established to shed light on all dark events of the past, especially the unknown. Effective policies and solutions to prevent violence and rape of women must be produced, women's killings must be prevented. Faced with corruption, the judicial process must be run. The plundering understanding that slaughters nature, the environment, must be abandoned, the arrangements for the equal and fair distribution of resources. Our children need to be offered equal opportunities, to create opportunities to prepare a free future, to create a safe and peaceful environment. Any discrimination against our future children must be terminated, violence, exploitation, child labor and child imprisonment. Refusals of international agreements on child rights must be removed. On this occasion, I wish that all children in both Turkey and the world could live in a more peaceful world, that we would fight to create a free environment, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0020par0132	Thank you. In turn, it belongs to Peoples' Democratic Party President Mersin MP Ertugrul Kürkçı. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0021par0136	Mr. President, Mr. President, dear friends, honored guests, according to the official calendar, today is a holiday. It's a holiday dedicated to our children that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was founded ninety-four years ago. Happy holidays. The kids may be having a little fun today, but most of us, when we look at Congress, we're not getting any joy, just like the rhyme. In the first year of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, he wiped out the reign, managed to end the invasion of Anatolia by the autonomous states in its second year, leaving the Ottoman state in its third year to claim world domination in the ruins of the First World War, declaring the republic of the wreckage. Those who declared a festival on April 23rd were not wrong in celebrating their achievements that saved the community from a flood of despair. However, we do not share the blessings of this salvation equally that day and today among the members of this community. Despite the constant illusion of Republican utopia, we are never, ever, in pain, in distress, and in exultation, a non-privileged, classless mass. In a country that ranked third in the injustice of income distribution around the world, that illusion is not just dry talk. These stereotypes were a summary of the official teaching that served to create a single Turkish nation of seventy-two-and-a-half nations from the Ottomans, to unite the nation around a Turkish capital class, to create an internal market; to legitimize capital poverty, the brutal exploitation of workers and peasants, and to legitimise their substitution with heavy taxes. The entire history of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been a test and a scene of the modernisation and modernisation moves from above, which aims to bourgeoisize the great landowners and the traditional sabbatical during a long, long and painful process, regardless of the technical revolution, an agricultural and territorial revolution. Every crisis of the Turkish Grand National Assembly was the crisis of the modernisation moves of a social freak, who is not modern and has one foot on the ground and one foot on the ground in trade and interest. For ninety-four years, this fantastic doctrine has continued to reproduce itself with every military coup and intervention. It's not surprising to see the government in the grip of a similar blockage calling for the same teaching against its opponents today: corruption against our nation, service to foreign forces... cure, unity and unity. There are still bleeding and unresolved wounds, great tragedies, and their political and human burdens in the source of the republic's influxes from the Ithiat and Terakki regime, which it has inherited today's Turkey. The massacres of Armenians, Assyrians and Suryans can't be explained in 1915 unless it is associated with the need to transfer capital to the country's co-host called Anado Tigers. In the 1920s, Kurds were fed by their ambition to form an ethnically diverse nation, which was taken over by the Turkish element of self-imposed and Terakki. The excavation of the Romanians from these lands was derived from the same ethnic cleansing policy. When our statesmen put their names in their mouths, I'm sorry, Armenian, Greek, that's the reflection of the culture. Will the Great National Assembly of Turkey today be able to act to change the fate of our people, to address the will to resolve these problems taken from the 1920s and the 30s, to end the war, to give the Kurdish people and all our people a life of peace and freedom? That's the question of the day. We don't live because everything we've been through is destined. As we look back on the past, we may think that the paths that have not been held as long as the roads that have not been held are an example for what we have experienced and for what we have not lived. For example, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey could have opened the door to autonomous and democratic symbiote with the Kurds, as well as with the Turks and other peoples, if it had not sacrificed and developed the principles of governance and governance that were envisioned in the Act 1921, rather than the idea of authoritarian secularism, which would have allowed the state to enter into Islam into its service, instead of the idea that it was equally distant from all beliefs, it could have led to tensions of faith and sectivism as it is today, as well as Christianity and Judaism could have been unafraid. In the 94th year of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the reaction to the search for revsuchism and unsubstantiated sultanhood, the spiteful generation growth, also feeds on the republic's indiscriminate birth defects. Regardless of objective circumstances, we need to keep in mind that we cannot neglect the potential of human will and consciousness to shape the future, to predict the future, and to act accordingly, to become a material force. By writing a democratic and liberal new constitution, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can search its roots for the power to pave the way for society and the reunification of the state. He dares to take over the unfinished business of the 1920 coven. The 2014 Grand National Assembly of Turkey, 1920-1922, will look at it in the mirror of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and see with horror how much power has been lost to its execution. Given the fact that Mustafa Kemal Pasha had to answer to lawmakers who questioned him, put up with dictatorship reviews, and respect critics, despite the fact that he had to hold both the Parliamentary presidency and the High Command, our representatives could put a price on themselves. Ninety-four years later today, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is still the seed bed of democracy, not the owner of sovereignty, but an institution that produces public approval for the sovereignty of money and power owners, we cannot attribute responsibility to the leaders. Every deputy is led by the leadership he deserves. And children... do our children, who we test in their mirror the true nature of every social and political regime... do they do anything other than treat the children like them... when they offer their seats in a parody for a few minutes... when those who rule Turkey, 90 years after the establishment of the Grand National Assembly, owe every kind of neglect, persecution, exclusion, and apology in front of the children they've been living with? Let's end the hypocrisy. What does Turkey offer children beyond the fact that it has dedicated April 23rd to be known as a child-friendly country? According to UNICEF 2012 Report, more than 23 million children under the age of 18 in Turkey are victims of human rights violations. Girls suffer from gender inequality. One of the four children lives in relative poverty. Child poverty is higher than general poverty. Of every 10 children, one is short, so they are shorter than their age. Some of the worst forms of child labor continue. More than 1 million girls and boys are doing seasonal jobs in agriculture, and millions of others are doing continuous or dangerous jobs in industrial and service sectors on the streets. An important part of children and young people living in less developed areas and rural areas struggle with material deprivation. Problems such as infant and child deaths, shortness, schooling, and gender inequality are seen mostly in rural areas, east and southeast. Internet access, leisure time and social activity opportunities are equally limited. Children who live in the poor parts of the cities are often exposed to poverty, poverty, and social insecurity from rural and underdeveloped areas. Children who have no native language in Turkish face difficulties during the early years of knitting and fall behind other students at this age. One of the main reasons for the inferiority of primary education in Turkey is directly related to the lack of education and education in the children's native language. In the cities in which Kurdish and Arabic speakers are in large numbers, in Kurdistan, in other cities where immigrants from Kurdistan live in denseness, the problem constantly reproduces itself. Children and young people living in Kurdistan in the midst of political tensions and violence face serious risks, including psychological stress, death, and injury, in addition to their lack of material means. But our children are facing the most right-of-life violations. We're candidates for the European Union. According to the Agenda Children's Rights Report of 2013, at least 21 children such as Efe Boz, aged 6 in 2013 were receiving public services, such as health care, care, education; at least 4 children were killed without trial, such as Uğur Kaymaz, 13 years old; at least 3 children lost their lives in rural areas, such as Ceylan Önkol, aged 14; and at least 3 children during social events such as Berkin Elvan, 15 years of age; at least 41 children under the same violence as Mert Aydın, 9 years old; at least 89 children for job killings such as Ahmet Yıldız; 3.5 years of age Pamir lost their lives in rural areas and at least 101. Today, the rebellion against the children's children's marriage in Erçek district of Van Goshek must remind the Grand National Assembly of Turkey once again: children will live when they can express their will to live honorably and free lives, not in hypocritical ceremonies. What children expect from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is to be asked what their needs are and to be met. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey can begin by removing the reservations it put into the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights and fully living those rights. You are what you treat your children. Happy holidays.
tbmm-2014-04-23sit01spe0022par0158	[[Applause from HDP and BDP rows]] Thank you. Members of parliament, talks have been completed to mark the 94th anniversary of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day and the significance of the day. On Thursday (April 24, 2014) to discuss other tasks from the commissions for draft and proposals, it is now 14 p.m., according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
