tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 55th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I wish all of us good work. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri, who wants to talk about the state of law and corruption. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to law enforcement and corruption.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0003par0017	Mr. President, if you'd be so kind as to warn me...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0001par0018	Mr. Orator, just a minute. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0004par0020	Shall I not respectfully salute the High Council on this occasion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0001par0021	All right, all right, but I'm gonna ask the lawmakers to hold their peace so I can hear you better. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0004par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable MPs, the property, which was valid during the reign of a high priest, was divided among states, rulers and noble classes in the understanding of the state. The ruler of the property state took his authority from ownership of the property and ruled the state without any rules. In the sense of the police state, the ruler is not bound by any rule. In the police state, the ruler's authority is taken from his power to rule. Although the rules of law in the police state did not bind the administration in any way, it meant rules for the subject to be followed unconditionally. The state of law is the state that guarantees human rights and freedoms, removes all obstacles to the rights of those who are governed, limiting authority in a democratic, equal and fair order to the freedom of people, bound by the law and the general rules of law. It's the same rule that governs and governs the state of the law. No one is untouchable to the law -- not even the Prime Minister and his sons. The basic rights and freedoms are guaranteed by the Constitution, not by the Prime Minister. All savings of management are subject to law. In the state of law, the courts are independent and the separation of forces is essential. The legal state is a guarantee of clean politics and clean society. Dear lawmakers, if there's corruption and bribery somewhere, there's also a state order that works in accordance with bribery and corruption. Where there's corruption, there's corrupt government executives. Where there's corruption and corrupt relationships, there's no law state. Following a corruption and bribery operation on December 17th, the AKP held the judiciary hostage and ended the legal state in Turkey. The amendment of the Law of the Judiciary Law is an application that may be in a state where the prosecutors who handle the case in the Lighthouse are dismissed, that law is passed for the Undersecretary of the MIT during the MIT investigation, which is not in the legal state, but in a arbitrary state. Prosecutors and judges who handle cases of corruption related to power have been removed from office. Police officers operating in corruption have been distributed. HSYK has been put under pressure, threat and blackmail. Prosecutors have been accused and threatened by Prime Minister Erdogan in election squares. His judge, the prosecutor, the altered courts have begun to make decisions based on the expectations of power. Judges and prosecutors assigned by the AKP will be forced to cover up corruption committed by ruling members, not to ensure justice is revealed. Because those accused of corruption and bribery are officially defended by AKP officials, especially Prime Minister Erdogan. Dear lawmakers, I don't feed my minister. I don't feed my boss." He can't say the words. In the state of law, a prime minister can't say I'm the state, I'm the law. He can't say I'm the law. A prime minister in the state of law can't say that we have the security of everyone's way of life by putting himself in the constitution. Where the public's lifestyles are guaranteed by the constitution, the state of law, where their lifestyles are guaranteed by the prime minister, there is a police state. In the state of law, corrupts are not guided. In the state of law, not those who are guided, but those who are sent are punished. The savings of governance in the state of law are subject to justice, the savings of the judiciary are not subject to management. The concept of a parallel state in the legal state does not cover corruption by inventing it. The legal state does not appoint judges, judges, and police officers who are fit for corruption. Legal sanctions are applied to those who commit corruption in the legal state, but in corrupt states, individual laws are passed. Where there's a law state, there's no parallel state, there's no deep state; where there's a deep state and a parallel state, there's no law state. In the state of law, prosecutors can't be threatened, silenced, digested, or prevented from performing their duties. In the name of history, I say: I invite the AKP to withdraw its hand from the judiciary, and pay tribute to the High Council.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0005par0033	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Kars MP Yunus Kılıç, who asked for a statement on the anniversary of the death of Kazim Karabekir Pasha, the great commander and conquistador of our Istiklal War. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0006par0038	Mr. President, honorable MPs; January 26, 1948, the day of the death of the great commander, hero, poet, writer, statesman, politician Musa Kazim Karabekir. Therefore, I have been promised the 66th anniversary of the death. I salute your high council. Of course, respected lawmakers, there are individuals in the memory of what each country, the region, and even the city had done in the past, who have a very important impact on the future of it. East Anatolia, east of Southeast Anatolia, and even east of the Black Sea region, have a destiny with Kazim Karabekir. I'd like to talk a little bit about it today. In fact, Kazim Karabekir dedicated his life in the battlefields to his country, his nation, his state; he showed great heroism; from Edirne, a person who participated in the great square battles in Diyarbakır, Iraq, and Çanakkale. However, they also had great heroics on Kars, Batum, Ardahan, East Anatolia, and at the point of determining their future. I'd like to talk a little bit about that in this short time. As it is known, in the 1877-1878 Russian-Ostian War, Kars, Batum and Ardahan, these 3 banners are left to these 3 starboard Russians, as we call them. For this region, 40 years of captivity and persecution are beginning in what we call dark days, called dark days. In the early 1800s, after the Russians began to become our border neighbors, there were nearly every three or five years of Russian attacks in these areas, so there were fugitives, expositions, and atrocities. After 40 years of misery, the Bolshevik Revolution, as well as the Russians, are evacuating it themselves, and they are withdrawing from the region because of some internal confusion, as well as the right of nations to determine their own fates. Later, those who have dreams of the great Armenia, who know the opportunity, begin to fill this area. In fact, they further extend these borders to Erzurum, until Erzincan, to Mush, Bitlis, Tripoli, and in this region, even though they themselves had filled them, despite the fact that there are 70 percent of Turkish and Islamic society, the respected lawmakers are allowing only 15 percent of the land and only 15 percent of the land to be used by Turkish communities, usually in barren, barren areas. As a result, great hunger and misery endure. In fact, I know from the stories of our elders who lived in that region, that we would starve so much that we chose the barley from the dung of the Russian horses and ate it. I know what they said. Of course, while this process continues, the honorable MPs, in fact, have been asked by Ataturk to head the General Staff after talks with him in İstanbul to start the Battle of Salvation, there is a hero who insists on moving to Anatolia; this is Kazım Karabekir, as Karslı said, Kara Kazim Pasha. Yes, he goes first to Edirne, to Thraciah, then to Kars, and then to Erzurum, 15. He takes over the Corps and starts the great battle, and at the end of his heroism, he makes a deal with the Armenians, and then, in the end, he makes the Customs Agreement, that our lands, which have been oppressed under the Russian captivity for 40 years, are re-acquainted with the land of Kars, Ardahan, Bitlis, Mus, Elaziz, even Batum, and even Batum, and even to make a deal with the Armenians. Then, to put Batum (Batum) behind us again, Kars and Moscow set the limits of our present day with their agreements. In addition to his military personality, Kazim Karabekir had another feature that he said in his own mouth, which he cared about, which showed compassion and compassion, which he called our child's cause. In that region, thousands of orphaned, orphaned, orphaned, orphaned children, who had established schools and reformed them, helped them to become respectable people for the people, gave them identity, took them into their own hands and took them into their own hands. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] God rest his soul, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0007par0048	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba, who wants to talk about Malatya's problems. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0008par0052	Mr. President, I've taken a stand outside the agenda. I salute you all. We have a responsibility to our people who sent us to the House. We don't see the House as a place to sleep. We don't just see parliament as a place to raise our hand, to kick other lawmakers, to swear, to insult them, to threaten them with death. We see the Assembly as a place where the country will be ruled, where people's problems will be discussed, and solutions will be found. With that understanding, we're ending the first month of 2014. Last year, 2013 was a year of loss for both our Malatya and Turkey. We all experienced the loss of Turkey. We've seen young people die in the streets wanting freedom, and we've seen young people count money in shoeboxes in their homes. I often tried to explain from this platform what Malatya was going through, and I tried to voice it, but I said, "The AKP shut up, didn't hear." Malatya lost a lot in 2013. Malatian manufacturers lost their labor, their bread, their dreams for the future. He shot the apricots, he shot them full, he hit the TARSIM, he shot the Bank of Agriculture. Thousands of manufacturers who have sold the world's most beautiful apricots for 3 TL, and sold them for 2 TL, said goodbye to 2013 with bank loans, interest, debt; some for execution, some for debt. In 2002, the manufacturer gave half a kilo of apricots for a liter of diesel, and in 2013, he had to give two kilos of apricots for a liter of diesel. The Malatian manufacturer became four times poor thanks to the AKP. After the apricot, the apple hit rock bottom, didn't even buy the juice factories. Having failed to sell his diamond for ten cents, Doğanşehirli declared 2013 to be a black year. The club owners were forced to sell the noodles they cost $2.00 for $1. And the pear of Akchadağ, and the cherry of Greenyurt, and the grape of Arabgir, and the walnut of Hekimhan, and the pomegranate of Doğanyol, were also in the same way: and the maker was in the end, and the maker was in the end. The animal manufacturers suffered the same thing as the agricultural producers. And Merari went out, and his cattle were hungry. Let us feed them with straw. They said, they regretted it. When they sold the milk for 60 cents and bought the straw for $1, unfortunately, they found salvation in cutting cows. The milk is cheaper than water, cheaper than hay. Those who couldn't give Malatya anything in agriculture were caught stealing our cows in Sultansuyu in the middle of the night. The mines were allowed to open up to the villages, to build a quarry at the bottom of Kaptaj, which covered the drinking water of 600,000 people, to open a cement factory near the wonder of nature, the middle of rivers and teas. Malatiah was the greatest loser in 2013, and Malatiah became the land and water. In 2013, Malatya, where all roads intersect between the east and west, gave the news of the fast train only in 2023. They made it look like a trick to divide and sell the car factory, which has been waiting for years. Malatya, who was deceived on the express train, scored more goals than Highways in 2013. Unfortunately, Malatya got double staked as she was going all over the place. The road to Malatya-Adıyaman, which has been waiting for forty-three years, is still waiting to be finished in its forty-fourth year. Unfortunately, the irrigation channels of the gaterock and Boztepe dams have been forgotten. The shipping contracts are late again. Many students were able to start Malatian poor, poor student school two months after the students in Ankara. The number of unemployed has increased, but the number of people taking advantage of TYCP has decreased. The new incentive law also struck Malatya. Customized with the money in his safe... those who privatized TEDAS were cut off from power cuts. The unclaimed city's unclaimed teams closed a year of injustices, 44 Malatyaspor and New Malatyaspor. Precious MPs became poorer, poorer in 2013 than in 2012. The Malatians didn't get rich, they didn't make it with their hard work. Many Malatians had a relationship with the government, only with the executive papers that only came to their homes. Malatiah's apricot did not cost money; his diamond remained in his branch; the village had no water, and the water was not made. What did the AKP do, dear friends? The Prime Minister did what he did, accused CHP, but couldn't solve Malatya's problem. The fruit of the Malatian's children's children, whose apricots are still on the floor, is still facing the Malatian hunger limit; unfortunately, they can't figure out the apricot, they're waiting. As long as Malatya's apricot problem isn't solved, no one here who's a member of parliament will be able to do it with their hard work. I'd like to point that out. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0009par0071	Thank you, Mr. Agha. We're going on the agenda, Mr. Lawmakers. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to improve the walls of Diyarbakir, to improve them in accordance with tourism, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of Constitution 98 and Turkey's Grand National Assembly Institution. [[Diyarbakır]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 6) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 12) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Lug]] Diyarbakır Castle is located east of the broad basalt plateau, which stretches from Karacag to Dicle, the extinct volcanic mountain. The production date is not known for sure, but is estimated to have been done by the Hurri in the 3000 BC, 5,000 years before that. Roman Emperor II in 349 C.E. During Constantine's time, the castle was renovated and strengthened and surrounded by walls. Diyarbakır Walls are 5.7 km long, 10 to 12 m high, and the wall is about 3-5 m thick. The square has a polygamous and circular total of 82 signs, including the most magnificent of them with inscriptions and inscriptions - Mountain Burcu, Goat Burcu, Seven Brother Burcu, Ben-u-sen, Burcu, Seljuklu Burcu, Leblebi Breaker Burcu, Nut Burcu and Nur Burcu. Since 1945, zoning operations began in Diyarbakir, while there was no physical decay in Diyarbakir until the early 1970s, the city grew rapidly both population and spatially in the 1980s. With the obligatory migration of the 1990s, there was a particularly negative impact around historical sites in the Surici region in Diyarbakir. To prevent negative effects; In 1988, Surichi was declared the 1st degree "Central Site" and in 1990 the Protectional Development Plan was drafted. The plan was approved and implemented in 1992 by the Council for the Protection of Culture and Nature. However, this protection plan did not protect Surici and failed. On 18/10/2011, all the signs on the walls of Diyarbakır were visited by Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality and made a detailed identification. According to this, 21 signs of heavy damage. 50 of them are covered in rubble and waste. Some are used as coffee, warehouses, cafeterias. It's not clear what one of them was used for. The walls that connect the constellations have also been destroyed, and there's no way of walking without interruption. The immediate restoration of 21 heavily damaged constellations within an integrated program; The contents of 50 constellations have been cleared of waste and debris; To ensure that the cleaning process will be carried out by the Protection Board and by the Museum Directorate; A quick repair of broken doors to prevent the contamination and invasion of the cleanup; Evacuation of horoscopes occupied for purposes such as coffee, cafeteria; Repairing the wall connections between the constellations; Repairing, cleaning and evac operations within a program; Indirect investments that will reveal the city's tourism potential and contribute to economic and social development will contribute. In order to improve the walls of Diyarbakır, to improve them in accordance with tourism, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104, 105 of Constitution 98, and the Council of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and The Constitution's 98th and Interior Charter 104th and 105th Articles of the Constitution in order to establish and establish new measurements in the coastal, Saray, Surahyaka, Bahçelievs, Kale and Enterprise neighborhoods, which have been decided on by disaster, and by the necessary work, to build, urbanization, tourism and trade, to take measures to address the issues of the people of the region, and to determine what needs to be done. [[Bitlis]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] Tatvan appears to be a natural port on the southwest coast of Lake Van, located on the plain at the eastern foot of Mount Nimrod. Bitlis is a municipality in the District of Bitlis, but has a large settlement in both the population and the municipality of Bitlis. Tatvan is a small rural settlement with nearly 300 populations, although it is a town. The population was 3,179 in 1950, more than 20,000 in 1965, 20,000 in 1970, 40,000 in 1980, 50,000 in 1985. In 2012, it has over 60,000 population potential. The rapid growth of the population has played a key role in Tatvan's transformation into a transportation and accommodation centre, as well as the relocation of some tribes. As a result of the rise of Lake Van's water level in 1995, the application by the local administration of the period and by the local authorities of the period was declared a disaster zone with some measurements intended to reduce municipal costs and then feed others from the area. Following the measurements, it has been declared a disaster area in the district of Tatvan, in the District of the Coast, Sarajevo, Enterprises neighborhood, Küzıyaka neighborhood, Bahçelievler neighborhood and Kale neighborhoods. Although it was a disaster district, the Business District was built into the Selahattin Eyyubi and Hüseyin Çelik schools. While these schools can be built in a disaster zone, local people's land is closed to construction and housing. Even though they give electricity, water, and other taxes, they can't get the services they want. Many European countries, particularly the Netherlands, have been declared a disaster zone without any work in Tatvan district, as a result of studies conducted on the coast by the construction of fillings. With no work being done in the coastal area, half of the district's settlements are declared a disaster zone, and the residents of the region are victims. As all living beings can't be taken away from their rights, our people in the county have been in a process of 17 years of destruction. After the Tatvan Coast Road inspection, the Tatvan coastline has been seen to be in no danger, and in 17 years, the level of water in Lake Van has not risen. Therefore, the removal of Tatvan's shoreline from disaster and after being removed from disaster should be opened to construction and housing without being allowed to become a distorted city. A review of areas declared a disaster zone in Tatvan district must be carried out. Some of the sites previously identified as disaster sites have been re-tested and removed from the disaster. In other neighborhoods, no measurements or studies have been made. By doing these studies again, the areas declared a disaster zone can be renovated, and the necessary measures can be developed, and the victims of the people living in the region can be restored, and tourism and the region must also be contributed. It is very important to open Parliamental research by the TBMM to determine the measures to be taken to address the problems of the region's citizens by the beach, Saray, Suratyaka, Bahçelievler, Kale and Business neighborhoods, and to build, urbanization, tourism and trade, and the problems of the region. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On May 3rd, before World Press Freedom Day, US think tank Freedom House announced this year's results in the World Press Freedom League. One point down, Turkey remains in the category of "partly free" countries. According to Freedom House's 2012 report, freedom of the press could not be on average for the first time in the world in eight years, while Turkey ranked 117th with a 1 points down. Turkey is among the 117th and is among 60 "partly free" countries between 197 countries. This year, our country is behind in freedom of the press, including Nigeria, Mali, Tanzania. According to the report, the AKP government continued to press news it did not like in 2011, and Turkey is one of the most arrested journalists in the world. The report, which reported that freedom of press and expression has been partially implemented by the Constitution, revealed that the Anti-Terror Law and the Anti-Terror Law have damaged freedom of press and expression. "The developments in Turkey, which have been presented as a model of democracy for countries whose population is mostly Muslims, are alarming. Although Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's government has been making major reforms since it came to power, detentions for Kurdish rights advocates have increased, the case of Ergenekon, which is broadly and politically alarming, is under way and leads to long detentions." Their statements were included. The government is trying to create a media that "beats" itself by issuing billions of dollars in tax debts to the newspaper owners, blocking other business and business agreements made by media owners. In the process, many non-compliance journalists have also been laid off by pressure of power. On the other hand, nearly 100 journalists in Turkey are under arrest as part of various cases. Statements taken from journalists by police and special-ranking Republican prosecutors are being served by police or prosecutors and executed without trial. "Why did you do this? What is the purpose of showing the news and state institutions as two opposing groups? What is the purpose of making these publications? What is your source of news? What is the source of the photograph you published?" Their questions are clearly against freedom of the press. The 12th article of Press Law 5187 states that "any news sources, including information and documents, can not be forced to testify on this matter, as the editor-in-chief, director-in-chief, and owner-chief." Again, the ECHR has a decision that can't be forced to reveal its source. Prosecutors are clearly acting against the Press Law. The AKP's government has been pressuring the press and journalists directly, as well as arresting and preventing opposition journalists from writing through its own jurisdiction. In order to determine the issues facing press freedom in our country and address these problems, we respectfully submit that a research commission shall be established under Article 98, Article 104, Article 105, and Article 105 of our Civil Code shall be investigated in all dimensions. [[40s.]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Tunceli]] [[Bolu]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 8) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 10) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 11) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 17) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] 19) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 20) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 21) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. We move to the agenda's "Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will resume talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and with its 1st ranked First Amendment to the Turkish Parliament's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of Bart's MP Yilmaz Tunç and 77 MPs in the 3rd place, where we are left with the Law Proposal and the Justice Commission Report for Changes in Some Laws. Commission? No. It's been postponed. The 4th ranking of Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and National Security Party Group Chair and MP Oktay Vural; the Daktay Vural's Order for Change in the Anti-Terror Act; the Order of the Law on the State of Law, the Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and the Milliyetist Movement Party's Committee for Change in Decisions and Decisions on the Law and Laws; the Minister of Social Affairs and Social Affairs; the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Social Security; the Minister of the Social Affairs and the Minister of the Social Affairs; the Minister of Humanity and the Minister of Human Rights and the Minister of Humanity, the Minister of Humanity and the Minister of Humanity and the Security Act; the Minister of Social Affairs and the Council of Humanity and the Constitution, We will make a proposal with the Constitution on Fridays and the Constitution; We shall submit to the Constitution and the Security of the Constitution and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution and the Constitution of the Constitution and the Council of Humanity. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In yesterday's merger, talks were completed on the second part of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on Article 31: (x) 524 S. The Numbered Basmaz (28/1/2014) was added to its 53rd Union Charter. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 31st of the Common Legislature. In the three months in the article, we want to change the expression to ▪ in two months. Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Izzet Cetin Musa Pine Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman In the first paragraph of Article 31 of the 524 amendment proposal, we request and demand that the statement be taken out in three months in the second paragraph of the (b) paragraph. İdris Baluken Secret One for Sakık Property Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 31 of the Law Bill 524 be changed in the following manner. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Özcan Yeniçeri Tunca Tuskayay S. Nevzat Don't Fear Emin Çınar Münir Kutluata Kastamon Sakarya Article 31-13/10/1983, the first paragraph (a) of Article 4 of the 4th Article of the Highway Law (a), the "two" ibara (b) in the form of "one" in the fourth paragraph, and the "moon" in the second paragraph of the paragraph (b) has been changed into "three months." "a) High Board of Highway Safety; The High Council of Highway Safety consists of Prime Minister of Justice, Minister of Family and Social Policy, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Minister of Interior, Minister of Development, Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance, Minister of Education, Minister of Forestry and Waterworks, Minister of Health, Minister of Transport, Minister of Maritime and Communications, Chief General of Security, Chief of Security, Chairman of the Road Editor-in-Chief and General Director of Roads. The head of the Highway Traffic Safety Board is present at the meeting to provide information to the board when necessary." Does the commission agree with the final motion read?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0010par0311	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0009par0312	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0011par0313	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0009par0314	Mr. Emin Çınar, MP of Kastamonon on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0012par0317	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion that we have submitted as the National Movement Party Group on the Article 31 (31) of Law Bill 524 that is being discussed. I salute your high council. The 31st article of the bill, which we discussed today, and the usual meeting of the Highway Security Board twice a year, is scheduled to take place 1 in three months; and the regular meetings of the Highway Safety Board, which is 1 in one per month, are scheduled to take place. The High Board of Highway Safety task is to prepare for the Head of Traffic Services, assess the appropriate proposals from the Highway Traffic Safety Board, and to establish the necessary co-ordination and measures needed to ensure the survival of decisions. The Board of Highway Safety's duties are to make recommendations for the reduction of traffic accidents, to identify the impurities in the application, to identify legal shortcomings in the issues involved in its respective areas, and to prepare for the Board of Highway Safety and to monitor the outcome of decisions made on the board, to inform the High Council of Highway Safety about the consequences. The importance of these two boards will be further understood in terms of territorial security, given the fact that a large percentage of society provides transportation via the ground road. Each day, increased road traffic brings with it various security issues. Increased number of vehicles, lack of roads, infrastructure problems lead to increased traffic accidents on the road. About 50 million people are injured every year in traffic accidents worldwide, while 1,200,000 people are killed by these accidents. Given the size of the numbers, it would be clear how important road security is. When we look at our country in terms of traffic accidents, it's not pleasant. There has been a serious increase in traffic accidents in our country over the past decade. In 2003, there were 455,000 car accidents, while in 2012 the number increased to 1,320,000. In 2012, 3,750 of our citizens were killed, while 268 thousand of our citizens were injured. In 2005, Turkey was in a car accident in 51 seconds, while in 2012 there was a car accident every 23 seconds. These are due to the lack of measures taken along the road. The AKP, who boasted of making thousands of miles of double roads, failed when it came to road security. In that case, I'd like to ask the government: What is the reason why the number of meetings of the Highway Safety High Council and Highway Traffic Safety Board, tasked with taking measures to prevent accidents, despite increasing traffic accidents every day? In our country, where accidents are increasing, why are these studies blocked when the boards tasked with securing road security should do their work more often? These practices must be abandoned immediately, and even the measures and measures necessary for the more efficient work of these boards must be taken at once. Dear lawmakers, there have been double roads during the AKP administrations, which have been in power for 11 years, but quality has never been considered on these roads. The repeated repair of the roads indicates that this process is not being taken seriously. Despite having main routes in some areas, road construction, renovations and repairs have never been completed. The work on the country road of the state, which has crossed the cyclical center, has not been completed for three years, hundreds of accidents have occurred, many of our people have been injured and have died. Again, construction of the eastern circuit road, which will connect the centre of the city to the Ankara state road in my constituency region, has been under construction for seven years and still has not been completed. Again, an ongoing overpass work has been under way for two years and has not been launched in the central Sunta Crossroad area of Kastamon. As a result, these applications are wrong. I ask that these wrong practices be abandoned, and I ask for your support in our motions, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0013par0328	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first paragraph of Article 31 of the 524 amendment proposal, we request and demand that the statement be taken out in three months in the second paragraph of the (b) paragraph. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0014par0335	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0013par0336	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0015par0337	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0013par0338	Mr. Idris Baluken will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0016par0341	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Article 31 concerning traffic accidents. We've told you over and over again what should be done in this Parliament regarding traffic accidents that have occurred in the last ten days. We rephrase the need for a comprehensive assessment of this issue by establishing comprehensive legal arrangements and a parliamentary research commission. So, we'd like to point out that the order of the bag is not going to end the drama of traffic accidents in this country. I'd like to talk a little bit about your policies that lay the groundwork for these traffic accidents, especially my own constituency, the Bingol. Again, valuable lawmakers, we have repeatedly expressed here how your policies, especially at the local level of government and central government, have victimised the people of Bingol. For a long time, we have faced a point of view that did not bow to the people's persecution during the 11-year period of AKP's rule. Again, at the level of local governments, we have an understanding that does not care about the problems of the people, does not provide solutions, and at this point, the people of Bingol suffer more and more every day. At a time when a year of election year, especially for 11 years, a sleeper understanding was introduced in a panic, and immediately launched its infrastructure and superstructure tenders, unplanned, and turned an entire city into a battlefield, a city that had come out of disaster, or a city that had come out of war. At the time, we had stated that these activities should be planned, that they should be completed with the exponential structure, starting with infrastructure in the neighborhoods, but we couldn't get them to listen. This unscheduled work made Bingley a city without water, a city without corruption, a city of pits, and a city of garbage. For a whole summer, in a city like Bingol, you have created a city practice that needs a drop of water that doesn't flow for ten days. Now, at that time, of course, because the election season was coming up, some work was done quickly, and in places where the infrastructure was not properly completed, for the sake of make-up. And we also expressed that this makeup would not last long because it was not a healthy study, and this year the conditions of the season went well, the climate went well, it didn't snow, it didn't rain, but now, with the first snow of the season, Bingol is facing a complete disaster. The makeup you've made has fallen off. There's no road in downtown Bingol, downtown Bingol, there's no area for pedestrians to walk to, let alone vehicles to go to. Look, I'll show you some pictures: you've moved a river to downtown Adeta Bingol. All roads are just a day's worth of snow. Look, these are the holes in the roads that were built this year. There used to be a concept like running away from a child, and there's no such concept in Bingol, because the whole road is covered with pits. We've made a motion to the Parliament, to change the name of the city, the name of the city, the name of the city, the name of the city, to change its name, to the name of Cholik, to the name of the people, to the meaning of Cholica, from Zazaca, to the meaning of Zazaca; but you didn't give that name, but you turned the whole city into a pit, thank you. Look, your Minister of Development explained to the local press that three days ago that the province of Beijing, along with investments and developments in economic and social areas, is becoming a modern habitat. Look, let me show you again the images of this modern habitat. Again, Mr. Secretary, who has been talking about development, has been particularly encouraging investors to go to Bingley. Look, this is one of the rare industrial facilities in Bingol, the Bingol Milk Factory. It looks like he's in a sea right now. Why is that? Because you built an unplanned infrastructure, you didn't reveal the depth of the infrastructure in line with the project; you didn't do the closure of the infrastructure, the insulation material properly. And that's why you're now victimizing an entire city. Look, a mother from Bingol can't send her child to school alone, God forbid she drowns in it. It's flooded dozens of citizens' homes. Now, of course, just as the ox died in general politics, there was a breakup, and the yak died in the local politics of Bingol, and there was a breakup. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The current mayor has just moved on to the Saadet Party.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0017par0353	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0016par0354	But I want to say that you're in charge of this whole painting, that the AKP is in its eleven-year practice. Since time is not enough, I will inform the General Assembly on this matter in another motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0018par0357	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 31st of the Common Legislature. In the three months in the article, we want to change the expression to ▪ in two months. Haluk Eyidoğan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0019par0364	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0018par0365	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0020par0366	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0018par0367	İstanbul MP Haluk Eyidoğan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0021par0370	Mr. President, good lawmakers, traffic security is a very important problem in our country, so there are no traffic accidents in our country, so that our people don't die or get hurt. Our recent tragic traffic accidents and tragic losses have brought up the problem of gangrene again. Traffic deaths and injuries are a priority issue for our country. There's a lot of illegal behavior from drivers and passengers. Traffic control is inadequate on the roads. Long-distance police should be more equipped and active. The roads are dark and neglected. We built divided roads. Those who boasted that they could not bring traffic to the EU standard. Fast-breaking road sales lead to fatal accidents. In order to reduce traffic risks and deaths worldwide, the United Nations declared the Ten Year Action Plan for Road Security on May 11, 2011. In our country, it has also been published on the Highway Traffic Safety Strategy and Action Plan. According to the standards of the United Nations, the requirement for seatbelts for every driver and passenger without exception has not yet been included in our internal law. Dear lawmakers, according to Article 78 of the Law on Roads, which is still in effect, only designated drivers and passengers must use protective gear during the driving of vehicles. There are exceptions. Let's see, which drivers and passengers are the exceptions? Car drivers, M2 and M3-class cars filled with vans and busses, passengers who drive for commercial purpose in the area of the residential area do not have to go back or drive at a speed of 25 km in the parking lot, there will not be anything in the world that will not be using a safety belt when emergency services are in special positions with the task or the team working. There is nothing in the world that will not have to be used in our law. What is it? The invention of the century is a negative privilege. Now I'm going to tell you the 2012 statistics: 1,296 thousand car accidents in total. The number of fatal injuries and accidents is 153,552. 3,750 people, drivers, passengers, and pedestrians, were killed at the scene. The number of dead drivers is 1,015. The total number of injured drivers is 90,077. See, valued lawmakers, 160 dead drivers do not have to wear seat belts. We should be able to account for this to the family of those we've lost. We need to think very carefully that 21,264 (a.k.a.) of injured drivers does not have to wear a seat belt. Another important issue is the collection of statistical data on death and injuries. The number of deaths in accidents consists of deaths at the scene. Does anyone know the fate of those who didn't die at the scene? The number of wounded citizens totalled 268,079. How many of them have died in the health care facility where they were removed, how many of them have lost their jobs, how many of them have to live their lives as disabled? What about their families? We've got a draft for the United Nations, we're seeing each other, it's ready in ten days, it's ready in a month, it's out, it's out, it's coming out, you can stall, it's not sanctioned. Dear lawmakers, I would like to remind you once again that we have a great responsibility to those who do not have to use seat belts and who have lost their lives, who have been injured, who are disabled, who are disabled, and their families. We also recommend setting up a pattern for the collection and evaluation of real data, followed by at least 30 days of monitoring the state of traffic injuries, how treatments have ended. I offer my love and respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0022par0380	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 32: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 524 Numbered Bill of Legislature, mentioned in the second joke of Article 32 of Article 17 of Article No. 3065, dated 25/10/1984, shall be changed into "admissible." Pervin Buldan İdris Baluken Secret Sakık Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 32 of Law Bill 524 be changed as follows. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı "The fourth joke of Article 17 of Article No. 32 - 25/10/1984 and Article 3065 of Added Value Tax was added to the following notes. "z" does not apply the first clause of Article 30 of the Law (a) on the basis of research and development and development under Article 5/B under Article 5/2006 of Institutions Tax Act 13/6/2006, the rental of external rights related to patented or useful model documentation, the sale of non-profits (e.g.). "The engine, which is intended to be used in agricultural production, has the authority to determine the amount of electricity used by fertilizer, medicine, seedling, seedling, bait deliveries and agricultural irrigation (the Council of Ministers has the authority to determine the amount of delivery per degree and the type of product)." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'd like to propose and change Article 32 of the current 524 rows of the Bill of Law to the following. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Müslim Sarı Musa Pine Aydın Agha Ayadın Article 32 - 25/10/1984, and the second joke of Article 17 of Article 3065 of Level Value Tax is added to the following (f) and (g) column four (z) to the following. "f) Surrenders and services to these foundations and associations concerning tax exemptions by the Council of Ministers and the construction of student dorms, hospitals, nursing homes and schools for public benefit. The minimum amount of goods and services under exceptions are determined by the Council of Ministers." "g) is the surrender of the property of the Turkish Kızılay Association to the Association, which will be donated to disaster victims abroad and abroad due to certain disasters. The minimum amount of goods and services under exceptions are determined by the Council of Ministers." "z) is the rental, transfer or sale of external rights related to patented or useful model documentary inventions, under Article 5/B of Article 5/B, dated 13/6/2006 and under Article 5/B of Institutions Tax Act 5/B (a) the first clause of the 30th of the Law (a) shall not be passed in accordance with the terms of tax exception)." Does the commission participate in the reading motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0023par0412	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0022par0413	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0024par0414	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0022par0415	Who will speak on the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0025par0416	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0022par0417	İstanbul MP Akif Hamzacebi will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0025par0420	Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, the 17th article of the Law on Values, is a provision that regulates many exceptions. In this article, the section entitled "Socially Purposed Exceptions" contains very important provisions concerning our social life. We propose that some additional exceptions be made within the scope of these social-purpose exceptions. According to this, the Council of Ministers decrees on exclusion of the value-appropriate tax-exemplary tax-free funds and on the construction of student housing, hospitals, nursing homes and schools. Under the conditions envisioned in the laws of tax exemptions by the Council of Ministers, education investments, health investments, income and institutional tax, are exceptions to institutional taxes because such foundations reduce public burdens in education and health care. The law-making state has seen fit to grant tax exemption to similar investments of foundations, which predict to relieve its burden on basic tasks such as education, health, and so on. These foundations carry the burden of the state, so let's give these foundations a tax incentive so that these foundations can take over the burden of the state. There are very successful examples of this, we have foundations that have created really successful examples of health care in education, we have associations. With our proposal, since there is such an exception in the income and institution's tax, then let's reduce the burden of these foundations by providing a similar exception in the Law on Value Taxes, such as education, health care, or, in other words, student housing, the dispensary, the hospital, the nursing home. That's what our motion aims to do first. Second: An exception to the value-appropriate tax added by the Kızılay Association during the Kızılay economics of property which the Turkish Kızılay Association, of course, will donate to disaster victims abroad and abroad due to disasters. Turkey's Kızılay Association is doing a social mission that no one can argue with. Therefore, due to the assistance that Rediay will provide to the victims, such as goods, materials, it is appropriate that these goods do not pay the value of addition during the economy of materials. Our proposal has this social content. I give you all your reviews, your appreciation, your respect, and I ask for a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit01spe0022par0422	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept the motion, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0022par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 55th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi and his friends was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who disagree... there's a disagreement between the clerks, we'll use the electronic device method. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We will continue negotiations with Bill 524. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 32 of Law Bill 524 be changed as follows. Münir Kutluata (Sakaria) and his friends "The fourth joke of Article 17 of Article No. 32 - 25/10/1984 and Article 3065 of Added Value Tax was added to the following notes. "z" is a form of research and development under Article 5/B of Institutions Tax Act No. 13/6/2006, under Article 5/B, under which patented or useful model documented inventions have resulted in patental rights rented, age or sale (in terms of the exception of taxes in this scope, the first clause of Article 30 of the Law (a) does not apply. "The engine, which is used for agricultural production, has the authority to determine the amount of electricity used by fertilizer, medicine, seedling, seedling, bait delivery and agricultural irrigation (the Council of Ministers has the authority to determine the amount of delivery per grade and product type)." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0026par0019	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0022par0020	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0027par0021	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0022par0022	Mr. Münir Kutluata will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0028par0025	Mr. President, I've been sworn in on a motion on behalf of the National Movement Party regarding Article 32 of Law Bill 524. I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, last Sunday, I ask for the mercy of Genghis Yücel Akyıldız, son of the nationalist Movement Party, who was killed in İstanbul Esenyurt. We are well acquainted with the collaborators and their patrons of the separatist elements, but this hand needs to be taken into account another aspect of the case, which is that our security forces cannot be sure that whatever tasks they do, they will not be in the heat of power. Congressmans, our motion for amendments to Article 32 is about the exception of VAT to the engine used in agricultural production, fertilizer, medicine, seeds, seedlings, bait and electricity. There are huge price increases in inputs used in agricultural production. In contrast, the price of agricultural products shows no movement as far as the farmer's share of its hands. The power is responsible for the increase in input prices -- the cost increase in agricultural production -- and the power is responsible for the loss of agricultural products, which are expensive in the market, at the expense of farmers. The government's high-profile VAT from agricultural inputs, which at both points failed to carry out its responsibility, shows that it has deliberately neglected or failed to grasp the importance of farmers and Turkish agriculture and agricultural production. We'd like the government to take the high VAT from those who don't have poorer policies on them. We also have an earlier legal proposal for this arrangement that we'd like to enter into the bag with the amendment motion today. We made a statement in the bill offered by the National Movement Party Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. 18 per cent of fertilizer and electricity, 15.25 per cent of diesel and 8 per cent of agricultural medicine and animal oaths are unacceptable. It is known to everyone that the Turkish farmer uses the world's most expensive diesel and that the situation is not different in other agricultural inputs. The policies that force the farmer to produce and sell at a price must be well understood. Agricultural policies must have two main goals: one is to increase the prosperity level of the farmer living above it, and the second is to increase agricultural production. It is understood that the government has set its aim to boost agricultural production, aimed at taking agriculture from the Turkish fence. For this reason, the poorening of the Turkish farmer comes from the results of agricultural policies, and statements in this direction, which are adopted as the main policy. Therefore, the Turkish farmer can't plant and can't produce, and on the other hand, he can't sell what he sows and produces; he's finally forced to sell his land. The creation of traders who collect deeds for rich people who are not interested in agriculture all over our country is another part of this poverty policy. The rise to 600 acres of land selling to foreign individuals also reveals the extent of this poverty policy. On June 18, 2013, in a press conference note, such as WikiLeaks documents, one of the AKP's most famous businessmen linked their deep conversation with the Minister of Agriculture to their consensus on the rescue of agriculture from the Turkish farmer. During budget talks, this meeting, which the Minister had to confess, reveals the rightness of our findings. In this case, it appears that the government has a goal of saving agricultural land from the Turkish farmer. What I just described as being identified years ago is that it's being achieved by making it unplantable, then unsellable, and then forcing it to sell its land. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0029par0035	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 524 Numbered Bill of Legislature, mentioned in the second joke of Article 32 of Article 17 of Article No. 3065, dated 25/10/1984, shall be changed into "admissible." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0030par0042	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0029par0043	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0031par0044	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0029par0045	Mr. Idris Baluken will be speaking on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0032par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly again. When we talked about the motion that we had made on traffic accidents in Article 31 earlier, we tried to expose your policies that led to these traffic accidents through the state of the roads in Bingley, and we tried to use the pictures to show you what all the roads in Bingol were like, but I'll show you those pictures again so that you'll be ashamed. Your Minister of Development said that we've turned the Bonköl into a modern habitat. Look, the center of what you call a modern habitat is now experiencing this disgrace. With such heavy drama, the people of Bingol face. I'd like to make a few more points on that subject, since we didn't have enough time to talk about that motion. Of course, you're the owners of this painting, the AKP, Mr. Prime Minister, because he's known for 11 years to get record votes from the province of Bingol, but when we mention it here, he even prevents an inspector from sending a technical team to investigate the problems of Bingol. As a result of such an understanding, this victimism emerges. I'd like to invite the Prime Minister to come to Bingol. Bingöl will head these pits in the center of the city, where he will call the press. You know when you're always in the area, and he's got BDP-based municipalities running the creeks that don't go into the city, and there's no need for him to tell you his opinion about your understanding of local governments in the center of the city. It's an open invitation. Look, just a few months ago, you had the mayor, he was at your party, but with the conflict of interest over candidate preference, the current mayor has now moved to the Happiness Party. Now, the mayor says that we don't own this painting, especially the Minister, the AKP government. The minister says that the owner of this painting is the mayor. The mayor is the owner of all of this, he says. The mayor blames the firm, the minister blames the firm, the company blames the mayor, the Minister; it happens to the people of Bingol. Two days ago, I met with some of the guys from this company in the infrastructure and the superstructure. The firm now says that we've done more work than the Bank of Provinces' funding. For example, the Bank of Provinces had raised a $20 million grant, and they did a 27 million job. The city doesn't have the power to pay this $7 million to the firm right now because it doesn't have any money in its safe because it's in debt. Company officials are on their way to the mayor, and the mayor says: "I've been cut off from the central government because I've joined the Party of Saadet, and my hands are tied." I'm putting the plots on sale inside the zoning border in Bingol, and the AKP members of parliament are blocking it. Moreover, the Minister of Development arrives one day early to meet with the members of parliament and directs them to do so in private. This firm's officials are going to the Minister, and since the mayor's office has been cut off, we can't pay you. What do you say? Mr. Secretary says the mayor is not at our party. So I can't say anything about whether or not the money should be transferred. Now, would that be an understanding? So, Mr. Secretary, if this mayor were in the AKP, he would be sensitive to the transfer of assistance from the central government to Bingol. But thanks to his transition to the Party of Saadet, Mr. Secretary is partisan, punishing the people of Bingol. We can't possibly accept such an understanding. You need to get rid of this painting as soon as possible. We're not looking at a modern habitat, we're looking at a city that's come out of disaster. We've sent several times to your vice-presidents in charge of local governments, and send an urgent delegation to Bingol. We don't care who's in charge, who's in charge, who's in charge, who's in charge, who's in charge, what's in the mayor's office, what's in the firms. What concerns us is that the public is a victim there. And I'm telling you to get rid of that sacrifice as soon as possible. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0033par0056	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 32 is accepted. There are three motions in Article 33: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-three of the current bill. We would like to change the expression from all return capital fees in the article to the form of all return capital fees. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu chooses Vahab Malik Ecder Özdemir Ramadan Kerim Özkan Turhan Tayan of Rahmi Love Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the 524 Numbered Bill of Legislature, dated 29/5/1986, be replaced and changed into all of the following terms in Article 33 (part 3) of Article 9 of Social Aid and Solidarity Act No. 3294, which regulates the first joke of Article 9. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Sırrıyya Leader Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 33 of Law Bill 524 be changed in the following manner. Oktay Vural Mustafa Easyci Muharrem Varlı Özcan Yeniçeri Tunca Tuskayay Münir Kutluata Article 9 of Article 9 of Social Aid and Solidarity No. 3294, dated 33-29/5/1986, was added to the first joke of Article 9 of Article 9 of Article 9. اe) All kinds of spinning capital costs and services, Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0034par0081	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0033par0082	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0035par0083	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0033par0084	Mr. Münir Kutluata, Congresswoman of Sakarya, is on the motion to speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0036par0087	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to renegotiate with you on Wednesday (January 15th 2014) a research motion for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear lawmakers, our proposal for research was to explore the ways for the rescue of Lake Sapanca, which was melting, retreating, drying. We had hoped that the Assembly would deal with what the government had not been interested in, and our motion was rejected on the basis of the focus of the ruling lawmakers' votes on the agenda. It would have been good to investigate whether our lake, the pearl of Turkey, the wonder of nature known to the world, was disinterested or dying on purpose, but I would like to bring your attention back to the subject of a small development. After counting the destruction that was inflicted on Lake Sapanca, I showed some photographs that the land, land or use of the lake was being considered as a multitasker. For example, this photograph was a sign of these preparations. Then, yesterday, we discovered that they had given up this hoarding business and withdrew the fillings of the area they were trying to fill. There are puddles of rain around here right now.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0037par0090	Maybe if you hadn't talked here, they'd have moved on.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0036par0091	In the same way, we said that this activity was being used as a continuation, and it was being filled, so the area was being guarded against return to the lake. In the same way, these materials were removed and tried to be restored. That's a partial point that I was referring to. The plunder on Lake Sapanca continues from three main points and three main angles. One of them was that the waters that flowed to Lake Sapanca were cut off by private organizations and unable to reach the lake. There's no progress on this yet. Lake Sapanca can't reach any clear streams; several streams of water are reaching, and they are the streams used to transport the septic wastes to the lake. No clean water can reach Lake Sapanca, and some companies are looted under the name of the water factories. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is one of the main things about looting. It had to be taken care of. In many parts of Sakarya, it is said that the need for Sakaryan's drinking water is kept from reaching Lake Sapanca with unhealthy water, while the water that comes to Lake Sapanca is kept from reaching Lake Sapanca. More specifically, this loot needs to be stopped. This was one of the process where we called it the area of destruction, which we expressed, but walked as loot. The second was that the lake was filled with rubble, including 4,000 trucks, by one company alone, and was turned into a dump site. In this regard, the mayor of Sapanca -- the mayor of power -- has not been nominated for this term, but the destruction appears to continue. We don't see any government explanations from this angle, no explanations from the responsible. One of the most important things was that lake water was being drawn from industrial institutions in the Izmit region. In addition, it was asked why a large institution, which was handed over by the government by privatisation, drew great water and was allowed to do so in the process of privatisation, why it was overlooked, and why it was not taken care of now. There hasn't been any progress on that either. We've only seen a small practice that shows that the Sapanca Lake has been laid down for today because of the operation to turn its retreated land into land or use. It means we're waiting for the others, and I pay all of you my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0038par0096	Thank you, Mr. Kutluata. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the 524 Numbered Bill of Legislature, dated 29/5/1986, be replaced and changed into all of the following terms in Article 33 (part 3) of Article 9 of Social Aid and Solidarity Act No. 3294, which regulates the first joke of Article 9. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0039par0103	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0038par0104	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0040par0105	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0038par0106	Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0041par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, your ministry is called the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. What do you mean by "social policy" and "help"? Is it just the poor, the poor, the poor, the needy, the homeless people you provide for, or is it social policy that a policy of approach of equality between all citizens is planned? Now, as we look at it, Turkey does not enter into the top 60 countries per capita in the world, it does not enter into the first 60 countries in the world, it does not enter into the 80. In art and culture, it is the last of the OECD countries. So, when I say social policy, why can't Turkey get into 68, 70 countries with the highest purchasing power in social policy? The world's 17th and 16th largest economy in the largest economy, some say. Now, there's going to be something here in the Ministry about rotating capital, which is good. Mr. Secretary, do you have a social policy regarding the prison? There are children there, there are women there, there are sick prisoners waiting to die. Even though there is a law against the right to say goodbye to the families of those sick prisoners, there are patients on the death line who are still on the verge of being suspended and not released, even though punishments may be delayed. Mr. President has expressed himself. But I'm going to tell you that in your time in power, in 13 years, 2,300 coffins came out of prisons. It's a terrible number. We're talking about a very severe human rights violation that will not be compatible with any human, conscientious, legal values. It is useless for you to remove the special authority courts; it is useless for you to remove the Anti-Terror Law. When you don't create a prison condition that treats a person like a human being at the very beginning, 163 people who are now waiting to die, perhaps as of this moment, for the next 163 patients who are about to die, let go of the foundation of the bureaucracy, of the doomed prisoners, and bring them to the prisoners of Konjonkur and watch these sick prisoners die. We've made several motions, we've made offers, we've talked to the Ministry over and over again. When our friends were talking on this stand, saying some names, two hours later, their funerals came out, their coffins came out. Now, I ask you, what social work do you have on 544 dying prisoners? How many female convicts are there in these, with crutches, eyes blind, and how many seriously ill patients can't go to jail, counting death hours, seconds at a time? Have you developed a human social policy in this regard? I'm in charge of social politics. These people can't die here. Can you say that? Do we always have to sing? And your ears will always be deaf like sultans? So, we're wondering what your return capital will do about the 554 names given by human rights agencies in a human matter and about the children in prison. What are you going to do in prison as a human being? In a situation where even the president can't exercise his authority, the Human Rights Foundation, the Ombudsman's institution, the State Control Board, the Inspection Board, all of this has become an institution for show. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0042par0113	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-three of the current bill. We would like to change the expression from all return capital fees in the article to the form of all return capital fees. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0043par0120	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0042par0121	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0044par0122	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0042par0123	Mr Mustafa Serdar Soydan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0045par0126	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to Article 33 of Bill 524. My respects to all of you. The main reason for the increase of the bag of law practices we are meeting is that despite AKP's numerical superiority, the Parliament is no longer able to operate in harmony and efficiently. The government has forgotten to bring every fundamental issue into parliament as separate legislation in accordance with its method of lawmaking. At the end of his eleven-year reign, you continue to do anything that doesn't conform to all the traditions and regulations of the Parliament's heart, the President of Laws and Decisions. You're stabbing the heart of the House. You continue to undermine the state of law and democracy. Congressmans, in 11 years, the point you have brought both the House and the country to is not pleasing to any of our citizens, including you. As a result of the practices of AKP governments, trust in the judiciary and the military is lost, and military members are tried to make it look like criminals working against the state. The educational system that will create new generations to shape the future of our country is daggering future generations without a complete system. Before the AKP, corruption is drawn to people on paper and with documents, while today you stick money-counting machines, safes, and millions of dollars in shoe boxes in public. In the last month, the economy has been derailed, our money has lost 20 per cent, interest and currency have risen, and prices have started to increase, especially fuel. A year's increase from the government to the employee and pensioner has been lost in a month, while industry, business, farmers, producers and all workers are concerned about the future. The interest lobby has captured the Prime Minister, and the Central Bank has made the highest interest increase in years overnight, but the economy's fire has still not been extinguished. Is the fact that the Central Bank has made the largest interest increase in history the same night that the National Bank has infiltrated the Central Bank of the parallel state while expressing its opposition to rising interest rates everywhere and erupting into the interest lobby? If the shock interest increases in one night fail to establish economic balance, will it be the parallel government or the gang responsible again? Congressmans, the hundreds of changes made by the AKP government in law enforcement and the judiciary were not enough, but you attempted to murder the law institution, the judiciary, with a bill reorganising the HSYK he submitted to parliament. The structure of the HSYK you wanted to change today was adopted by the vote of the national will, which you have not dropped from your language in the referendum, according to your recommendation and support. Now, are you going to tell me that the national will has made a mistake, or are you going to say, "We made a mistake"? Will you resign on the basis of political responsibility? You're trying to turn the separation of forces into a unit of forces. You have entered into the effort and effort to link the judiciary, the living, the running to the Prime Minister. Where's democracy, where's division of forces, where's independent judgment? Don't forget, when the tyrant saw his doom coming, he increased his tyranny. Congressmans, AKP governments did not only destroy the air, water, land, green, forest of this beautiful country, but they did not have the money collected by taxes of 76 million. He dedicated the authority of the national will not to the service of the nation, but to the service of himself and his relatives. The extent of corruption and bribery is history. Even if you stop being evidence of safes, money counting machines, and millions of dollars in shoe boxes, you'll never be able to get out of the memory, you'll be in the history books. I would like to complete my words with the words of the great folk poet and poet Pir Sultan Abdal. There is no fire in hell, and every man will take his own fire from this world. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0046par0138	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0047par0141	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit02spe0046par0142	I'll submit the clause to your votes and ask for a sufficient number of decisions. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0046par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 55th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough of a decision in the 33rd Amendment vote. Now, I'm going to put the item back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who don't accept... Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's enough to make a decision. Article 33 is accepted. We will continue negotiations with Bill 524. The commission is here. The government is here. There are three motions in Article 34: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to put "all rights and debts" in front of the statement "reports to the treasure" at the end of Article 34 of the current legislation. Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Izzet Cetin Musa Pine Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and "inclusion of property to be added to the central budget next year" before the declaration of "using due incomes or funds" in the second statement of Article 34, which stipulates adding additional clauses to Law 3294. İdris Baluken Secret One for Sakık Property Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 34 of the current Law Bill 524 from the draft text. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0048par0034	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0046par0035	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0049par0036	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0046par0037	Who will speak on the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0050par0038	Mr. Münir Kutluata...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0046par0039	Mr. Münir Kutluata of Sakarya will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0051par0041	Mr. President, I have made a motion on behalf of the National Movement Party regarding Article 34 of Bill 524. I salute you all. I'd like to start by reviewing the situation of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, which is considered the owner of this bill. The Ministry has a wide range of responsibilities. It's our Ministry's job to help people in need of help and attention, as well as to try to stop the development that makes them helpless. Given this aspect, the country's development, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy's field of duty must also be narrowed down in parallel with the country's development and its burden should be eased. However, it is the opposite, and its responsibility is increasing day by day because of a very serious social breakdown, dissolution in the country. Since twelve years of false economic and social practices are responsible for this corruption in our social growth, the ministry's mission seems to be to try to repair what the government has broken. Therefore, it is not possible for him to solve the problems he put in front of him and bring it to a conclusion. The Ministry's repair force 1 is proven by almost every event that the power of destruction of power is a thousand. The social decay and collapse of Turkey is not an opinion that we come to based on isolated events, but the fact that every segment of society has its own lives. Crime rates, women's murders, debt rates, executive files, we're dealing with a lot of negatives. The decline, which no government can condone, from the increases in child marriage to the prevalence of drug use, continues by gaining speed in Turkey. Instead of looting public goods, spreading corruption and bribery, institutionalisation has become deeply traumatic to their consciences. The fact that the top authorities, responsible individuals and institutions, are placed in an encouraging and protective position, which must prevent corruption, also destroys the hope of stopping social corruption and collapse. This painting causes social decay and collapse to extend to all of society's cells. With each passing day, society's larger populations are either in health or in mental health, but most of the time, it is the Ministry's responsibility. The wider segments of society are either physically dependent on the ministry of material or morale. The collapse of the social system is not an immediate development that can be noticed from one year to the next. For this reason, social corruption and social collapse in Turkey have long remained the suffering of the living, hidden from other parts of society by pressure of power, or cut off their interest. When the underlying decay became undisclosed, then it began to shake the entire society, and it turned out to be very difficult to solve. There have been significant expansions in the masses, regardless of the 12 years of destruction, even in the past period of June 8, 2011, when the Ministry of Family and Social Policy was founded, because of the decline in the social system, because of the worsening. Dear lawmakers, poverty, poorening policies are one of the most important factors to increase social collapse. When we look at it that way, we see that policies in Turkey push important parts of society towards the responsibilities of this Ministry in the form of new poor masses every day. Therefore, it is possible to express this ministry responsible for family and social policies as a ministry tasked with collecting what power has broken, what it has spilled. However, as long as the government continues this destruction, it says it is difficult to achieve success in this field, the burden of the Ministry is increasing day by day and year after year, in this respect, the Ministry... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to find a way to apply to preventive measures within the government. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0052par0050	Thank you, Mr. Kutluata. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and "inclusion of property to be added to the central budget next year" before the declaration of "using due incomes or funds" in the second statement of Article 34, which stipulates adding additional clauses to Law 3294. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0053par0057	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0052par0058	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0054par0059	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0052par0060	Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0055par0062	Dear lawmakers, the Prophet has a saying, saying: "A hour of justice is better than a thousand hours of worship. " To cultivate justice in all aspects of life and to exercise true justice in social justice is a place of refuge for all. As the Prime Minister left, the Minister of Justice later said: "We will remove the special authorities." Why? Does it have to be something that needs to be touched to lift it, guys? The European Court says that all politicians say that, and the whole opposition says that. We had two conversations here, you attacked us with a hundred people. You also stood up after him, and after December 17th, the special court of authority must be lifted. However, we will remove the Anti-Terror Law, but we will carry some of its articles to the Turkish Penal Code. Guys, justice is 24 karat. Don't you know that during the Turkish Penal Code, the Anti-Terror Law met all of them? Didn't your fellow lawmakers work there at that time? Who are you telling now? The Anti-Terror Law is against justice, against humanity, against politics, against freedom of speech, against organization. He's only protected political power. Think of a wheat field. There's a grass in those grain ears, in the grass of the foreign, called the Ziyan, that's a waste. When you don't get rid of that wasted weed, when it's in that wheat, you can't even make the dough, it doesn't even hold the dough. When you cook -- even one of them is bitter, poison, like poison -- it poisons all the food in the pot. For 30 years, what you call the Anti-Terror Law has only been brought up against opposition, a certain political opposition, sentences have been raised, extraordinary courts have been set up, and the executions have been increased, and the executions have been increased, and the people have been put in prisons; they have returned, traveled, come back, they have come to power. Now, you will bring this waste of grass and place it in the Turkish Penal Code. No, you're doing it wrong. You're gonna get rid of this waste, and there's only one way to do that, to get rid of it, to get rid of it. In fact, Turkish Penal Code articles 220, 314, 215, 216 are filled with waste buds. He poisons, poisons society, poisons democratic society, poisons justice, poisons independent judgment, darkens the future of our people, poisons everyone. Why can't you get this right, we're having a hard time figuring it out. There's ambition. So, friends, really lift up the enemy, there's nothing left to resist justice. They say. What's with the ambition? So like doing something right about this, doesn't this House, all parties have a common responsibility? Come on, you're building a dorm... now, I see, the more you read this bag of laws, the more you're surprised. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy talks about the dorms the foundation will build, the pensions the national education will build. Well, brother, there's also the sports department's dorms for the students; take them, put them together and do something decent. Look, recently, in Denizli, 90 percent of your homes were left unsaid because they stayed in upper hotels because they couldn't have students. If you're really thinking about it, Syrian refugees, over a million in the slums of Ankara -- check the report -- go here, see if you can find out what conditions people live in. All this is good... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Not with a bag; politics with a bag, solution with a bag, justice with a bag, my friends. They're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0056par0072	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to put "all rights and debts" in front of the statement "reports to the treasure" at the end of Article 34 of the current legislation. Celal Dinçer (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0057par0079	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0056par0080	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0058par0081	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0056par0082	İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer will talk on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0059par0085	Thank you very much. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, we've been watching with wonder and caution today for what purposes are being used today to ease the suffering of both the poorest and most socially troubled parts of our country, which were founded 28 years ago in 1986. Over the course of 28 years, social welfare foundations have done a great deal of service for the poor, they've done a great deal of help, and they've done a good job of fixing the gap between the rich and the poor. But, now, you're bringing in this beautiful organization from its own purpose, this beautiful organization, this beautiful foundation, a bag of material that will change its own foundation and lead it to other purposes. What do you want to do with this stuff? It says that according to the social aid and solidarity foundation, a decree is being passed on in the form of the National Ministry of Education or the opinion of the relevant public administration, that it can be built using funds that transfer funds to trust revenues or foundation revenues, that it can be built for this purpose, that all kinds of houses and such buildings that have been built will be transferred directly to the Treasury and will continue to be used. Dear friends, social welfare and solidarity foundations are the foundation established according to the Civil Law, a private legal person. These foundations have boards of directors, so they have trustees. The trustee committee or board of directors are their decision-making bodies. The foundation can already provide housing for needy and poor students with foundation revenues or funds. What are you doing now? You are disposing of that authority and authorising the Ministry of National Education or the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Office of the Credit and Housing Institution. You say: 'They will be approved.' But what about the foundation's free will? What about the trustees? I would like to point out that such an arrangement is not in accordance with the law, that it is not in accordance with the Law of Civil Law, that it is not in accordance with the Law of Foundations. The jurisdiction of the courts will be eliminated. You know all the homes that have been built have been transferred to the Treasury, along with the facilities, construction, all of its properties. Well, you know, Mr. Secretary, the foundation's property cannot be transferred for free, anywhere without a court order. So, how do you do it with a law? I'm sure when this law goes to the Supreme Court, if it comes out like this, it will be annulled. You can't put so many mortgages on the free will of the foundation. Dear friends, there is also a request for the transfer of any and all facilities to the Treasury's unmovable goods with the item they want to add. The Ministry of Finance is assigning a purpose, which is not allowed to be done if it was used without purpose, if it was built on it. How can you let them leave this land? Now, in our country, we have the Ministry of Youth and Sports and Loans and Homes. What does this institution do? Why hasn't the board of loans and dorms built a dorm so far? You want to build a home using social aid and solidarity resources, but these foundations are built to help people in poverty, to help people in poverty, to make homes. Then make the Ministry of Youth and Sports an institution that will help the poor. Dear friends, I'm short of time; we see that the change in this subject eliminates the functions of the foundation and thus makes the foundations an institution that operates by order. This means the removal of the main function of the foundations, which is a number of centuries old, contrary to the foundation's logic, against the law, and the trustees' delegations are ignored. The Mortgage and Homes Agency, which operates in this regard, can build these dorms with its project, with its engineer, with all its technical staff. I'm saying that instead of funding, a direct transfer of money from the treasury should be made to the dorm. I'm going to discuss the personnel and other issues of the welfare foundation in my next talk. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0060par0095	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0061par0096	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit03spe0060par0097	I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0060par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 55th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer and his friends' motion was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. I submit Article 34 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions in Article 35: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-five of the current bill of law. If there is a right to use or to operate in the article, we would like to add all rights and debts to come after the declaration. Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Izzet Cetin Musa Pine Celal Dinçer Mehmet Ali Sesam Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to introduce and propose the extension of the 524 Numbered Bill of Legislatives, which will be added to the 3294 Act in its second joke on adding additional items to the Law. İdris Baluken Secret One for Sakık Property Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 35 of Law Bill 524 be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Tunca Tuskayay Münir Kutluata Ahmet Duran Bulut Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0062par0028	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0060par0029	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0063par0030	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0060par0031	Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0064par0034	Mr. President, I salute your esteemed deputies, your grand delegation, and our Istanbul MP, Mr. Engin Alan, who is a prisoner in Sincan Prison. Dear lawmakers, the Social Aid and Solidarity Foundation, that was one of the places where we weren't touched, and we're taking over there, trying to get him to do new jobs other than what he didn't do. For some reason, there's been a trend in building foundations, building dorms with foundations lately. A new trend has developed at the point where our Prime Minister's son, daughter-in-law, daughters-in-law, son-in-law, son-in-laws, places from Fatih Municipality in Istanbul, some municipalities in other cities.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0065par0036	Shame on you? It's been there for 20 years.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0066par0037	Good Samaritan Reza!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0064par0038	This trend is organised within the framework of the Social Aid and Solidarity Foundation, which is established in Turkey to help the poor. In a meeting I attended in Kepsut district of Balıkesir in previous years, a valued MP from the Justice and Development Party explained their work because they had built a prison for Kepsut. I was surprised, too. There were water drains, no water; there was unemployment... at the point where they evaluated their products, I came across a government that boasted about opening a prison, rather than saying, "We've solved the desperation of the citizens in the face of the price of products." Now, we're helping millions of people in the country, as well as the Social Aid and Solidarity Foundation. I'm offering you a government that boasts about the number of people it has poored in Turkey. A very important institution, really, is the Social Aid and Solidarity Foundation, which serves with 9,000 staff in Turkey, at 973 central, in the district and district, with the heads of the governors or governors. I've served as a member of these foundations before, as part of my mission. Because of our faith, people would help in a structure that would hide what the right hand gave, and now we see from power a sense of service that can be seen in public by making it public and sticking it in people's eyes. Most importantly, when the counties make the tender at the coal point, when the districts make the tender, the trustees, the conscientious, careful skaters open the bag, look, examine it, if it's the stone inside, they return it, but when the General Manager makes the tender, no one objects, no one pays attention, no one notices it, the citizens are put in front of the doors as coal. In the distribution of these, you're aware that they're being so careless that they put coal bags in front of the house of a citizen who's heating the house with natural gas. Because in determining these poor people, the chiefs, in fact, some politicians, and executives there, are involved in identifying these people. With this network of foundations that later sold those coals there, there are serious services to people in the form of animal loans, grant loans. We see that by not being careful at the point of identification of those who are to be given these services, or at the point of being given them, or being considered for other purposes, for the sake of favor, for people who have no right to be able to do such animalism, or even have no money to buy hay for those animals given to them, these are given to them, and then, three months later, they have to sell them to someone else, and they do not have a very good purposeful help. We see that in many ways. In that respect, I ask that the foundation, like the guarantee of the social rights of its staff, give up on issues such as dorms, give up on our proposal, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0067par0043	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to introduce and propose the extension of the 524 Numbered Bill of Legislatives, which will be added to the 3294 Act in its second joke on adding additional items to the Law. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0068par0050	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0067par0051	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0069par0052	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0067par0053	Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0070par0055	Dear lawmakers, yes, when this bag of laws becomes a torba, it's okay to put everything into place. The understanding of the law, unfortunately, ruined our healthy technique, and ruined the legislature of the House. Now, we're looking at a lot of social solidarity in this bag of laws. From Syria to Syria to nearly 1 million refugees, including the capital, see, from the border with Bulgaria to Greece, from all the sea borders to Europe, from all the cities, from Antwerp to Şanlıurfa, Mardin to Şırnak, all of these refugees are scattered, some in tents, some in Ankara, some living in the middle of the capital, children living in nylons. It's easy to be a social government, a Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Is there a report on this? Is there any indication of that? What did you do about it? He writes -- in television programs -- he writes about how 14-year-old girls get married, the situation in exchange for rent, the fall of human dignity. Is there no sin in that? You can say there isn't any. He's not interfering with Syria. We have always looked outside Syria. You can say, "We have helped you. " Now, he tweeted a spiritual tweet -- not from tweets -- as Mr. Arinc said, but from tweets -- says the situation in Syria is devastating. Now that I look at it, we must all unite in the face of the war and the deaths. When I say, "We must all unite," they did not call the only representatives of the Kurds, the Turks, the Arabs, the Assyrians, who now declare their cantons in Geneva, Kobani, one of the Cantons of Afrin, one of the only God's servants in the cantons, one of the Kurds, one of the Kurds, one of the Turks, one of the Arabs, one of the Assyrians. But I'm curious to know, in the presence of Mr. Ruhani, that this photograph was very interesting to me: Mr. Prime Minister, on your left, is meeting with Ruhani. On your right, we have 10 ministers, and on your right, there is a row of the Undersecretary of MIT. Now, I'm going to ask you a thing called politics and diplomacy adjustment and code, which is called procedure: guys, can you tell me what this picture means? I want to hope for something better than that for the Middle East, for peace, for the future, for the solution. But when I look at it like this, when we look at it, does the Ministry of Family and Social Policy do this on the Internet? Look, there are 24,737 pieces of content -- six months' explanation of Google -- 3,486 requests by the government. In these demands, it says: "Turn off those sites. " I wonder if there is a single demand from the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, how many demands are there, how many demands have you sent? For example, how many have you sent to protect children, for gambling, for loan sharking, even for hate crimes, for racism, for scalping, for discrimination, for discrimination? I'll explain which ones he didn't agree to next time, Google, but he agreed to one. We've taken three court decisions regarding private information from government officials, bank accounts, and since it violated our product policy, we've accepted the government's request.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0071par0062	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-five of the current bill of law. The right to use or operate in the Article shall be added with all rights and debts to come after the declaration. Mehmet Ali Sesam (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0072par0069	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0071par0070	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0073par0071	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0071par0072	Minister Mehmet Ali Sesam will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0074par0075	Mr. President, the fact that our motion is not accepted is a flaw. It's a motion we made to contribute. We recommend that he be transferred with all his rights. In that sense, I think the Ministry ignores our willingness to contribute by saying we don't agree. I'd like to make a few point on this occasion. I told you yesterday, we're trying to make the agenda of this House equal to the public agenda, to make it equal to the agenda of the tradesman and artist. While our Minister of Customs and Trade is here, I'd like to share a few things with you right away. The Constitutional Court makes a decision regarding fees, ads, advertising taxes and so on to municipalities who have rejected a bag of legislation; the Council of Ministers is making decisions; the top figures in the law are being decided to collect them from the shopkeepers and artists. Let me put it this way: Izmir is now being paid 2.5 liras for the place where 50 cents was taken from the marketer, so it's 5 times as high. Here's another example of entertainment tax: you get $1.050 of entertainment tax from a shop that costs 700 lira rent by the decision of the new Council of Ministers. It's classified for occupational fees, and most of the cities and cities are in the 1st grade. All places in İzmir pay taxes on the same occupation. For example, the same in the cordon, the same in the velvet, the same in the old Smyrna, and the same in the fair. Despite the quality of the jobs, the profits and the region, the Council of Ministers has made a decision, and according to its decision, everyone pays from that figure; the numbers he pays, the numbers he pays from the occupation are more than the rent of the workplace. Such injustice is needed to be corrected. What does our Constitution say, Article 173: "The State protects and protects its tradesman and its artist. " Then what do we look at when we make decisions as the Council of Ministers? What needs to be protected is the numbers that will subject the tradesman and artist to taxing from the lowest degree. There's something in this bag of law. The two ministries, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Health, said that the Ministry recommended that 400 of those from Syria be given health care. It is the duty of this great state to provide health care to people who come from Syria who need health care. But I'm asking you now: 1.5 million BUG-KURL can't get health care, because he owes money -- six days without paying his premium -- he can't get health care. Well, why don't we put health care in this law, even though it's a debtor? When our citizens in Syria are in need, don't we have to put this bag of laws on the government's agenda? Dear friends, many laws await. Mr. Secretary, for example, we're going to throw the hypermarket law after the election. But I'm looking at the special authority court law that says, "We're going to take it out before the election. We're going to have to make the law, we're going to send it to Parliament. Let's hope that Parliament gets it out before the election. Let's see if a minister tells the executive body of law at this time." He shouldn't have. This is not an appropriate description of the existence of the forces and the existence of Parliament, this is not an appropriate speech. Dear friends, the tradesman, the artist, has a lot of problems. We have to do it in that frame when we break these laws. The Council of Ministers needs to organize the numbers for the occupation. Health care needs health care for non-responsive BUG-KUR. In that sense, I give you once again my warnings to this House, to these and to the government, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0075par0083	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Article 35 is accepted. There are three motions in Article 36: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-sixth of the Common Legislature. Those who have been left to use the third person in his article, we demand that the statement be removed from the text. Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Izzet Cetin Musa Pine Mehmet Ali Sesame Ali Sarıbaş Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose that "the property will be added to the central budget next year" before the declaration of "using due income or funding" in the second joke of Article 36, which stipulates adding additional clauses to Law 3294. İdris Baluken Secret One for Sakık Property Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 36 of Law Bill 524 be changed in the following manner. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Ahmet Duran Bulut Emin Çınar "The following temporary clause is added to Article 36 - 3294. Article 2 - Any building, structures, and facilities that have been built by Social Aid and Solidarity Foundations, using funds, to be used as housing or lodgings, and are prepared to be used as housing and lodgings, go to the Treasury without any further operation. These movers and the building, structures and facilities above them can also be earmarked by the Finance Ministry to public administrations other than municipalities, taking into account the purpose, the use and the needs of the public administration that they need, except for municipalities. However, those who have been left to use third persons under contract or protocol by Social Aid and Solidarity Foundations may continue to be used by them until the end of their term, under the conditions specified in the contract or protocol. At the end of the period of use, they are also processed according to these clauses. From the time this clause is in effect, it can't be a boarding house and a dorm using funds resources, funds resources can't be used outside the scope and scope of this law." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0076par0113	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0075par0114	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0077par0115	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0075par0116	Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Ik will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0078par0117	And he's running for mayor of Kütahya.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0075par0118	We know you're running for mayor of Kütahya, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0079par0119	May I say Mr. President? Mr. President, may I say Mr. President? Mr. President, thank you!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0075par0121	Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0080par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on Article 36 of Law Bill 524. On this occasion, while I wish the Minister the best, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, this clause envisions the transfer of dorms built by social solidarity foundations to the treasure. That's true, it's a proper approach, but we think it's true that after that, using funding resources, the housing and pensions can't be built, the funds can't be used except for the purpose and scope of this law. It's open-ended again, and I'm afraid there's uncertainty about who's going to spend for what tomorrow, for what purpose. So this motion of ours is correcting it. We think it'll be a more accurate arrangement if it's included. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to take this opportunity to share with you a few of the issues our citizen wants to see in this bag of legislation, but unfortunately he cannot see again. I'd like to share with you the fact that even though the veterans' pensions were promised earlier, they weren't especially increased, they weren't given interest-free mortgages, and they were veterans, but they weren't allowed to take advantage of the additional employment given to our other fallen families and veterans here. These combat veterans are waiting for this, the Ministry, the government promised us, but we're not here. Again, although promised, the senior staff wants their compensations to be reflected on pensions from the Armed Forces. Although previously concerned ministries had promised that it could always be done, unfortunately, it has not been done until today. They want this to be here, too. Even though Jandarma experts are college graduates, they retire like middle school graduates. They ask us, "Why hasn't it been fixed, even though we've been told that we're going to fix it for years?" They ask us, "I'd like to share it with you." Contracted officers and petty officers, unfortunately, are terminated between the two lips of their commanders at the end of their three-year term of contracting. They can't get into government institutions because they're not on staff. I'd like to share with you the motion to relieve these victims, and unfortunately, they haven't found themselves in this bag either. When will we be pardoned, what arrangement does Parliament have for us, for those who are afraid to enter prisons for violation of the pledge, who cannot see the faces of their wives and children in their homes? There is forgiveness for the terrorist on the mountain, and why don't we have it? They ask you, dear lawmakers. Again, they did not find their share of the legislation, even though the ministers, the workers of 4/C, and the subcontractors, repeatedly said that they had arranged and improved here. They say to us, "Please ask me." What's going to happen to them? Yesterday, my constituency and science took a march in Kütahya because the road workers were not entitled to their rights despite a court order. ▪ What will happen to us? Despite many court rulings throughout Turkey, the Tarheron worker should be considered a public worker for doing the same work as a public worker. Despite the decision, he is still being forced to work as a subcontractor. We have to figure this out. Again, by the end of 2013, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting promised about 6,000 engineers. Mr. Secretary did ads on TV, on screens, we'll get them. He said, "We'll get them." They ask: "What happened, 2013 is behind us, what will happen in 2014?" We're going to the Finance Minister, and we don't have that request from the Minister of Agriculture and Animalism. We're going to the Minister of Agriculture, we've delivered it to the Minister of Finance, we're running into the promise of no staff. They ask which one is telling the truth and what is the truth, please ask. Dear lawmakers, again, I'm calling on the ministers who failed to fulfill this promise in 2013: either tell the truth or leave your seat. I remind you that by deceiving these young people, you will get nowhere. I await your support of our motion, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0081par0135	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose that "the property will be added to the central budget next year" before the declaration of "using due income or funding" in the second joke of Article 36, which stipulates adding additional clauses to Law 3294. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0082par0142	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0081par0143	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0083par0144	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0081par0145	Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0084par0147	Yeah, I'm just finishing up part two. Google's Law Director Susan Infantino -- I don't say it -- explains the six-month Turkish report, and the demands made on Google in January-June 2013 are 24,737 pieces. Guys, watch this very carefully; this is a series of reports including December 17th operations. 3,846 of these are government requests. Now, let's get out of here, it says that we've received 1,673 requests from Turkish authorities to remove content from our platforms. There's almost 10 times as high as the second half of last year, folks. The total demand is 1.126, violation of Law 5651. What did they want? Especially suicidal driving, sexual abuse of children, drug use and stimulants. Now, here, what's interesting is a few things that have been answered. He says we've been asked to remove the search results for a political official's sex scandal. We've received a court order. We didn't get rid of the results. Now TİB makes decisions, doesn't care about the court decision. Google, TİB makes decisions, sends them to der Google, puts them into processing, right? If Google listens to your TİB, the beep, who doesn't care about the court decision, for God's sake, interpret a logic. Yeah, well, look where it's been, what kind of bushes it's been going through, when you're walking around in this virtual space. Look, he also said that we received two requests from a government agency to remove a blog page about us -- the Kurdish party -- the Peace and Democracy Party -- and a website about Kurdish activists and a Google page making profiles, a court order. We never removed it. It says again, look, it's very important: we've made a court decision on the third party that envisions the removal of the blog on the charge of criticizing the quality of a prosecutor's job. We haven't moved the block. What are you going to do? You put the bag in and you passed the law. Tell me what you're going to do. He doesn't Google, he doesn't listen to TİB. There's something very strange going on here. So we put the bag in, and raised the hand, and it happened, and it came out. It's not happening. But God has shown kindness in a matter concerning the government. We've taken three court orders to remove blogs with personal numbers, personal e-mails, bank account information -- I'll take your attention -- and we've heard the government, we've removed most of these articles because they violated our product policies. Guys, he's thinking about head product policy, profits... Now, our government is doing the same thing on Facebook, and it says that 19 million people from Turkey visit here every day. It's said that 37 million people are following a monthly routine. Turkey is concerned with the least demanding country's Facebook administration. Who's been found the most? Italy is 1,705 people, France is 1,975, Germany is 1,886. What did Turkey demand? He said to shut down Hasip Kaplan. That's it. Facebook has shut down the website of my House speeches. Why? Facebook receives 49 per cent of Turkey's income tax-free, friends. Here's a tax-free social government. Is there a social government in a bag of laws? What kind of a tax-free social state is that? Oh, Facebook shut down my website. You're giving me 49% free, tax-free goods, so get your taxes out of the bag. You know, the odd thing is that a citizen, a barista, a peasant, can you grab onto Google, Facebook, one of the world's services? No. Your bag is weak, my friends.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0085par0153	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-sixth of the Common Legislature. Those who have been left to use the third person in his article, we demand that the statement be removed from the text. Ali Sarıbaş (Chanakkale) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0086par0160	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0085par0161	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0087par0162	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0085par0163	Mr. Ali Sarıbaş of Çanakkale will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0088par0166	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to amendments to Social Aid and Solidarity Act 3294. I hereby salute your high council with love and respect. Law 3294 includes citizens without social security, salary or income. In order to extend his hand to our citizens without social security, an account of the Social Aid and Solidarity Fund has been opened with the National Bank of Turkey. This fund account consists of 10 per cent of the funds established and established by law, 2.8 per cent of the income and institutional tax, 50 per cent of traffic tickets, 15 per cent of RTÜK revenues, funds to be put into the budget, and some kind of income from donors and charities. The funds collected in this fund are called general aid, education aid, health benefits and other benefits for citizens with no social security, monthly or income. Dear lawmakers have served within all the social needs and needs of our people, including the green card, in the services that the Social Welfare Foundation has served in its collection and equal distribution of these revenues, and in this sense, it has served in its service to all those who need it. But today, when we just presented the amendment proposal, and it's out of the question of the foundation's purpose, and it's usually at some point at a point where it's changed, and in that change, it's intended that they all gather at some point. But the question mark is, what is the question? What about the third party that was signed here and passed on by protocol? Who are they? So far, 155 homes have been built, and how many of them have been assigned to the poor? If in this contract they are to be collected in a single sense, centrally and disciplined, why is it left out of the scope of the law? There's something missing here. We, especially the Republican People's Party, would like to focus on this, and we would like to make sure that this goes in. But that's just not enough. Here in the law, within the law, in the law, so far, as we've talked about all kinds of things in the bag, I don't actually call it a bag anymore, because there are certain ingredients in the bag, because if I describe it as a sack, it's not going to be wrong because we're talking about a sack law that deals with as many things as possible by midnight. And one of the things that I'm concerned about here is that, despite the fact that we've established the physical and rehabilitation that we've established at Bell, including private sectors, municipalities, and NGOs, which I've seen so far, and that we've given to the government, the Department of Labor, and that we've seen that the protocols that we've done -- and that we've done so far -- have been given the wrong direction. The question mark is: We know that the AKP government has so far been run by the runt economy, and so far it's been driven by the runt economy. So it doesn't predict who will be handed over the land and the buildings clearly outside the treasure after this mindset is handed over to the treasure, which is not so clear and doesn't know how far it's going to go. I'm concerned that the TOKI and the buildings at the time will not be used for self-interest. It's also going to be about where and how these people are going to live later, where our poor, poor people are going to live. I'm trying to say, very valuable MPs, that you've asked for the votes of the poor, the poor, but two months before the election, you won't be able to fool these poor people anymore, and I know in the box that AKP will say no to this economy, this wrong economy, this poor economy, this understanding of people. I hereby offer my deepest love and respect.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0089par0173	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 37: T. B. To the presidency of the National Assembly 37 of the current bill. As of the date when this clause is put into effect, we would like to request that the expression "also" be added to the term "also" until the date of "31.12.2013." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu chooses Vahab Malik Ecder Özdemir Ramadan Kerim Özkan Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu of Rahmi Love Turhan Tayan Mehmet Ali Sesam Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 37 of Law Bill 524 be changed as follows. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Ahmet Duran Bulut Emin Çınar The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 37-3294. Article 3- As of the date when this clause is in effect, the costs of return capital and service are abandoned due to data-sharing procedures, including electronic questioning. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0090par0196	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0089par0197	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0091par0198	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0089par0199	Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0092par0202	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our National Movement Party Group on the amendment motion we have submitted on Article 37 of the Perpetual Legislative Code of Law to change the amendments to certain Law and Laws under the State of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, 524. I hereby salute your high council. Members of parliament, in our country, the family institution is of great importance in protecting, sustaining, and transferring national and spiritual values to future generations. The family, the cornerstone of the Turkish community, must be protected from negative developments caused by economic and social developments. We are obliged to strengthen the family institution and develop protective policies between family members and family integrity. Family and social functions must be eliminated. By developing employment opportunities, each family must be provided with sufficient and continuous income. Families who earn income below the standard of minimum living must be included in a social protection programme based on the level of poverty. In this framework, families should receive regular social support, especially in the economic sense. In order to maintain and maintain family integrity, working spouses must be allowed to serve within the same province, so that they can be appointed as partners. In every area, women's educations must be raised, especially for our citizens in our rural and eastern regions. There must be more roles in the development process in business and decision-making mechanisms. Thus, women's social positions must be strengthened. From opportunities and opportunities offered at higher education, we must certainly provide high levels of opportunity for our girls. Women's employment needs to be expanded, and they need to be widely involved in the labour market, and our women need to become managers. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in working life, women should be stopped from being negatively discriminated against. More comprehensive work must be done for working housewives to contribute to family budgets and the country's economy by providing them with professional skills. Regardless of their age, non-married daughters and divorced or widowed women must be provided with health benefits. Violence against women must be stopped, necessary measures must be taken, and criminal sanctions must be increased. The cultural, social, psychological, and economic reasons that cause women to be subjected to violence must be eliminated. We're going to have to remove the necessary legal proposals from this House. There must be cooperation with NGOs and media on this matter. In social and professional life, any practice that undermines women's dignity, restricts their basic rights and freedoms must be terminated. Legal assistance must be provided for women who are subjected to violence and abuse while seeking legal rights. The quality of children's lives must be improved by guaranteeing their children's future. It is absolutely necessary for them to receive free day care services, such as day care and children's clubs. Madam Secretary, although you're on a new mission, I wish you luck again. Once again, Kahramanmarash, in my constituency, there are major shortcomings in both women's shelters and nursing homes in our centers and districts. And I remind you again of that, and I ask for your help. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0093par0211	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. T. B. To the presidency of the National Assembly 37 of the current bill. As of the date when this clause is put into effect, we request that the expression be added until 31,12,2013. Mehmet Ali Editoglu (Hatay) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0094par0218	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0093par0219	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0095par0220	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0093par0221	Hatay MP Mehmet Ali Editoglu will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0096par0224	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 37th Amendment of Law Bill 524. Dear lawmakers, I would like to point out that instead of the date of his entry into the 37th Amendment, he must be added to the statement until the date of.31,12,2013. Because we think this change of expression is necessary in terms of fiscal year integrity. I'm going to talk about today, as a physician, the practice of spinning capital that is not accepted by physicians and other health workers. Dear lawmakers, this system, which causes unrest between physicians and other health workers, who are doing the same job, who are even in the same line of work, who discriminate between employees, who break the peace of work and harmony, and cause each other to discuss the amount of rotating capital each received, has to be reconsidered, making collecting performance points more valuable than giving healthcare. It is also unacceptable to give return capital to 4/C) residents. On the other hand, the disqualification of return capital revenues among employees is enough to damage the spirit of the team that is already out of health care institutions. Dear lawmakers are known to be victims of retirement because their return capital, which causes a certain increase in income while working, is not reflected in retirement. For example, a physician who receives 7,000 lira a month in his work is 2,000-2 a month in retirement. A sister who receives £500 a month can receive only a thousand lira pension in her pension. Years ago, however, the Justice Department corrected the income levels of its employees' pensions through a legal arrangement, providing an important gain to their employees. In fact, judges and prosecutors receive less months from doctors when they work, but when they retire, they can receive their pension and pensions almost twice as much as the doctors. According to a survey conducted by the Health Workers' Union, the fact that the number of health workers who think they can meet their needs on their pensions is only 1% tells the reality of the incident. Paramedics are forced to work for a new job instead of retiring or retiring in fear of not getting along. For these reasons, return capital payments in retirement should be reflected in pensions and pensions, and this condition that leads health workers to poverty must be corrected. Dear lawmakers are generally accepted that health care cannot be left to market conditions and must be controlled by the state. There are various reasons for that. It is also known that demand for service in the health care system is determined by the supply, that those who produce the services, health care providers and physicians, when it comes to medicines, the drug monopoly, by using market relations, create unnecessary demand, ultimately fuel the use of health care. The most important reason why health care is possible is because health care is decided by those who produce services, not by consumers, rather than by other metas. The service, which is the subject of the supply-enhanced demand, is the therapeutic services. The important thing is that the presentation of protective health care is always ignored. The basic motive behind the manipulation and increase of health demand in the market is the ability of the service that is being used to create that service. The therapeutic services of the type of service manipulated by the supply, particularly the treatment services using high-tech and pharmaceuticals, are caused by the potential for treatment services to make the manufacturer a large amount of money. Returning capital is actually a privatisation application. As Turkey transfers its resources to several capital groups and global capitals, it narrows down its social sectors, while the gap in the middle is tried to be filled with new types of taxes on patients viewed as consumers. The solution to this mess can no doubt be solved only by central policy. It would be wiser for health care to be financed with an even tax system, to provide health care by the public, to direct the resources transferred to privatisation to public institutions, public investments. For the welfare of 700,000 health workers and the health of 76 million of our citizens, we should all step together as politicians. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0097par0233	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 37 is accepted. There are four motions in Article 38: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "the maximum four hundred foreign nationals" in addition to Article 3359 shall be replaced by Article 38 in the framework of the 524 rows. Hakan Sergeantoğlu Mihrimah Belma Kiyet Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman love Bak İsmail Kashdemir Gülay Dalyan Hüseyin Bürge Türkan Dağoğlu Sevim Savarer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 38th of the Common Legislature. We propose that the expression "top 400" in the article be changed to "top three hundred." Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Izzet Cetin Musa Pine Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of "national interests taken into consideration" following the declarations of the Ministry of Health issued under Article 38 of the Common Law Bill 524. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Ahmet Duran Bulut Emin Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of the 524 Numbered Bill of Laws, which was dated 7/5/1987 and stipulated to add additional material to the Basic Code of Health Services 3359. İdris Baluken Secret One for Sakık Property Does the commission participate in the reading motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0098par0270	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0097par0271	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0099par0272	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0097par0273	On the motion...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0100par0274	Motive...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0097par0275	I'm reading the reason: No doubt it is a positive arrangement for foreign citizens to respond to the request for health care from Turkey if they need it. We want to express that this approach is correct in action from the principle that all human gains and savings are common. In particular over the past few years, however, the wrong foreign policy, which the AKP's government has been involved in, has led them to provide assistance to international organisations involved in human crimes, providing them with a lot of logistical support, particularly health. The approach to who will receive health care, including 400 people at the most, will be determined by the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Health, which is very problematic for the transparency of the implementation. The State Department has lost a great deal of confidence in such matters. This provision, seen as positive in approach, has a different dimension, given that there are still 3 million citizens in Turkey who haven't been assessed for income. In this non-controverted area of practice, there is concern that the relevant public enterprises will continue to carry out the activations that may be considered international crime. The practice is positive, but there is a need for clear and transparent laws to address concerns in this direction. A change is intended to allow such a law to be made. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and offer the addition of the terms of the declarations of the State of Health to be added, considering our national interests after the declarations of the health ministry of Article 38 of the 524th Amendment. Rusar Demirel (Eskişehir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0101par0286	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0097par0287	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0102par0288	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0097par0289	Eskişehir MP Rusar Demirel will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0103par0292	Mr. President, on behalf of my party group, I salute you all. Of course, helping people in need of health abroad, beyond international relations, is a human and conscientious situation, but if you open the door to anyone, who is unpredictable, who is opening the door to the stranger -- as we understand it -- will this country be the homeland of the Haymatlos? It's clear that you're about to accept that motion. And the relevant clause in this bill, Article 38, is very vague. Here are four hundred people a year, with the approval of the State Department and the Ministry of Health. You'll remember, not long ago, you said yes to another law. You made a reference to the origins of even the cadavers who would come to this country for the purpose of education, and you put it into the law, saying, "These criteria cannot be brought." Well, don't you think it makes any sense to you that you're the one who accepts 400 patients who don't have any criteria for patients or living ones, even when you're coming back dead? I've been telling you lately to face your facts, to realize your contradictions. When you bring a dead body here for education, you make a criteria for it, because it's so naive to say that you're not involved in a crime involving human rights, let's get 400 strangers who are sick with what qualities they're gonna be sick with and who isn't sure where they're gonna come from...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0104par0295	The next of kin will come, the next of kin, don't object.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0103par0296	That area...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0104par0297	Family will come, don't argue. You object to everything, at least say yes to it.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0103par0298	I see friends who are eager to talk, so they can contact the party groups and get up here.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0105par0299	Please don't interfere.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0103par0300	But in this country, the homeless will come.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0106par0301	The family members are coming, ma'am.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0105par0302	Mr. Sergeant...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0103par0303	Besides, I'm returning...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0106par0304	Don't object to the rights of your kin.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0103par0305	You're about to sign re-enactment agreements with the European Union.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0106par0306	You're just being a eunuch. Do a little bit of work on the family.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0103par0307	With this deal, there's no telling who will come to this country. Also, Mr. Secretary of State, during and before the Ministry of Foreign Affairs -- of course, in the story of life -- we don't know who will be friends in the process of taking from the strategic depth to the precious loneliness, who will be approved by the ministry, and who will not give it, and we don't know that. The people who come to this country have no limit, we all know that, the door is open to everyone, but the gates of health institutions are open to the citizens of this country. Because refugees from Syria have the right to receive all kinds of health care unconditionally in this country, but this door is not open to citizens of the Republic of Turkey to the end; does it not strike you as interesting? Face that fact, don't fool yourself, lawmakers, it's a fact. A citizen who is bound by citizenship to the Republic of Turkey, who pays his taxes, who fulfills the responsibility of all citizenship for this country, has no right to take unlimited advantage of his health care, even though he is carrying out his civic responsibility, but all sorts of people you bring under the name Syria are entitled to all kinds of rights in this country; yours, me, and everyone else's taxes. And now you're thinking of bringing in people from an unknown disease of 400 and what species.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0107par0310	Family will come, Ma'am, family will come.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0108par0311	You don't know about matter.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0103par0312	When you bring these people in, we don't know what kind of diseases you're going to transfer to this country. Because health isn't just something you or I understand, you transfer disease with the patient. As a matter of fact, if no one knows that you and your fellow physicians have transferred measles and polio to this country, which we've had for years.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0107par0313	There are hundreds of thousands of Syrians, 400 Syrians will come.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0108par0314	You don't know!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0109par0315	Please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0110par0316	I'm telling some friends again, so that he can hear about this: Even infectious diseases that can be prevented by vaccine with asylum seekers from Syria have been seen in our country. We pay for all of this in health and in taxes. Let your non-healthy friends enlighten the rest of you. We were a country with a certificate of measles, a certificate of polio, and we lost our qualifications today. So we can't just open the door and approve a law that says, "Let's all come here, let's welcome the homeless, let's transfer the disease to the country." Which reminds me -- again -- you're a political party that's limited even for cadavers. It makes sense that you, even from the dead, have never imposed any restrictions on 400 random creatures. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0109par0319	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0111par0320	The decision is enough, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0112par0321	Mr. President, I'm going to issue a warning based on Article 60. This has been discussed in the Commission, not family members. So far, they've come from Afghanistan, Yemen, not from any family.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0113par0322	You're just being a eunuch!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0114par0323	You're talking about what you don't know, what you're saying is wrong!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit04spe0115par0324	Congressmans, I'm voting, please, Mr. Akchay. I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0115par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 55th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on Eskişehir MP Ruzar Demirel and his friends was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. We'll resume the talks of Bill 524. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 38th of the Common Legislature. We propose that the expression "top 400" in the article be changed to "top three hundred." Mehmet Ali Sesam (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0116par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0115par0013	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0117par0014	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0118par0015	Mehmet Sugar...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0115par0016	Mr. Mehmet Sugar of Gaziantep will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0119par0019	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the 38th Amendment of the bag. On this occasion, I salute you and all our fellow citizens who follow us. Article 38 is a valuable substance, which is not in the text proposed by the government, which has been adopted by the subcommittee and is not defined by the need. As in the subcommittee, with this clause, an additional clause in the Health Services Basic Law was envisioned to cover treatment costs, housing costs for foreign nationals whose number is unlimited, escort numbers are unlimited, and a grant for the public hospital's budget. Later, in the commission talks, the number of patients was limited to 400 Dear friends, it is a very positive situation for foreigners to seek treatment in our country that cannot be treated in their country, that our country can meet this demand, but the treatments of 600 people from seven countries, including Albania, Kosovo, Sudan, Yemen, Afghanistan, Azerbaijan and Cyprus, can be met by Turkey every year. In this case, the 2013 budget was set at $2 million, while in 2014 it increased to 4 million 104 thousand. On the other hand, in December -- with data from 2013 -- in Turkey, there are 17,000 foreigners who have been treated in many different origins, only from Syria with gunshot wounds. Again, the number of police services given to the Syrians exceeds 1.9 million. Although the government has kept the costs of these treatments a secret, we know that even though the questions I've made have been left unanswered, a very serious budget has been poured in here. However, it is not known why this arrangement is needed. What's obvious here is that there's definitely an anchorson in this arrangement. But what opportunities do we provide for our own citizens in the field of health? Dear friends, it is impossible for three million citizens in our country who are unemployed and who have not passed their income tests to access health care. The state writes a debt of $245 a month to unemployed people with no income. The debt of those in this position has reached $4 billion. From employees and pensioners, the turnout has been raised to 11 pens, dear friends. For many reasons, our citizens receive money from their citizens, such as the part of the drug participation, the part of the examination, the share of the application, the share of the prescription, the amount of the study difference, and the accession of our citizens to health care has become impossible. The rate of contributions from citizens has increased to 45 per cent during your rule. On the other hand, a person whose contract of employment has been terminated can only benefit from health care for ten days if he does not have conditions to benefit from unemployment insurance, if he has not paid 90 days in the past year. Turkey is willing to pay a fee of no accommodation for its own citizen and escort, while Turkey is willing to pay for 100 lira a day for each of its 38th article and for the foreign national patient and for each of its two companions. So, while power is creating all kinds of opportunities for the treatment of foreign nationals through bilateral agreements, legal regulations, surrounded by laws, on the other hand, either get sick or find money for your own citizen, that's the only way I'll treat you. Dear friends, in the preparation of the bag law, the trader, who owes less than 12 months of bonus debt, had been informed that his debt would be expunged, and that there would be a small bonus debt for those who should have received a new income test, and that this would be divided into 12 installments, but none of this would have happened. Dear friends, the government must explain immediately and withdraw this matter into the bag with an unlimited and vague fiction. First, he must erase the debt he wrote to those who did not pass the income test, provide access to health care and provide a solution to the tradesman's premium debt. With these feelings, I give you all my regards and greetings.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0120par0028	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "the maximum four hundred foreign nationals" in addition to Article 3359 shall be replaced by Article 38 in the framework of the 524 rows. Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0121par0035	We're giving it to you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0120par0036	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0122par0037	We agree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0123par0038	Motive.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0120par0039	I'm reading the reason: Reason: The number of patients to be treated in our country is reported to be annual, and according to the 6458 International Protection Act, the term "foreigner national" is being corrected as "foreigner" in line with the definition. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit the item to your votes:
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0124par0043	Along with the changing motion.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0120par0044	Those who do not accept... Article 38 is accepted. There are two motions in Article 39: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 39th amendment of the current Law Bill, 524 rows, shall be changed as follows. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay S. Nevzat Don't Fear Emin Çınar The following article, dated 39-28/5/88, was added to the Law following Article 5 concerning the construction, maintenance and management of the Organizations outside the General Directorate of 3465. Article 5/A- From the time this clause is in effect, the Article 4/1/2002 of Public Relations Act 5/1/2002 and Law of Public Relations No. 4735 shall be carried out under the Law. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-nineth of the current bill of law. We request that the clause be removed from the text. Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Izzet Cetin Musa Pine Mehmet Ali Sesam Birgül Ayman Güler Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0125par0065	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0120par0066	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0126par0067	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0120par0068	İzmir MP Birgül Ayman Güler will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0127par0071	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I wish Mr. Aysenur Islam a great success. Of course, it's a total of 524 rows, 300 pages, 125 articles, 18 lines. I'm going to talk about Article 39, not about you, but about the roads. I think it's difficult for us to get into the depths of the matter, without the relevant executive body staff here. So, I guess you have to rethink the General Assembly's operating system. Article 39 changes Law 3465, which was released in 1988. 3465 is a law that regulates how to build highways that aren't going to be built by the government. It's only 13 points, but in 1988, it's an unremarkable sum of laws that have never been done in its scope. It's a law that predicts highways to be built with a do-and-do model. This law stipulates that the tenders in this framework will be subject to bans on contracting contracts under the Public Contraction Act and the Public Contraction Act. Here's the big thing: In February, in February 2013, the story of the tender of the bridges and highways, which Turkey has made a huge amount of income from, the story of being stopped by the Prime Minister is enlightening enough. This arrangement, which is seeking to transfer the highway and bridge construction to the private sector, is, in fact, designed to handle the transactions within the ordinary Contraction Act, but, in fact, the transactions are concessions and appropriations. The construction, maintenance, management of the bridges and highways of Turkey, the construction, maintenance and operation of hotels, motels, restaurants and other facilities on the highways, and the establishment of all other facilities, within the framework of this law, can be auctioned to the private sector. This law limits this era to forty-nine years. Now, the bag of law puts a new arrangement in front of us in article 110, limiting it to twenty-five years. My dear friends, with the concessions and concessions of bridges and highways, the Republic of Turkey once again revitalizes the Ottoman tradition of public service in the Ottoman era. So far, giving away the proceeds of the golden chicken bridges and highway revenues to concessions and probates means cutting off the gold-roasted chicken. In more financial terms, it means breaking revenues in terms of the old generation of financiers. Selling 25 years of highways and bridge revenue in advance means resorting to a very expensive infrastructure financing road. Twenty-five years, forty-nine years, direct jurisdiction and austerity is a collaboration of one or several companies, or, of course, who will co-operate with them on highways and bridges in the state, and tomorrow's group of politicians. By the name of the public, this is the story of Mad Dumrul: five from the past, 10 from the past. It is a mistake to allow highways and bridges to be opened to the tarp through the concession and munificence that should now remain in the Ottoman period, but it is a bigger mistake to have public revenues broken in advance for twenty-five and forty-nine years in advance. We can make these investments by borrowing money. Any financial computation would mean that we'd be more profitable than any means of eligibility and privilege. This privatisation method must be rejected. Therefore, we give negative opinions to Article 39.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0128par0078	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0129par0080	Mr. President, it's been accepted. Please don't! Look at us every once in a while, three people raised their hands!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0128par0081	I look, I look, I see all of you. I've looked there, I've looked here, I've seen all of you, Mr. Akar. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 39th amendment of the current Law Bill, 524 rows, shall be changed as follows. S. Nevzat Korkmaz (Isparta) and his friends "The following clause, dated 39-28/5/1988, was added to the Law following Article 5 concerning the construction, maintenance and management of Outgoing Highways outside Highway 3465. "From the time this clause is in effect, the provisions of Public Contracts Act 4/1/2002 and Public Relations Act 5/1/2002 and Public Contracts Act 4735 shall be carried out." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0130par0089	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0128par0090	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0131par0091	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0128par0092	On the motion, Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz will speak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0132par0095	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, Mr. Secretary has just begun his post, and I wish you all the best. And at the beginning of my words, I would like to share a sad news with our General Assembly. An expert sergeant at Izmir Bornova has become a martyr, so I'll inform my friends of the Isparta MP. I ask God's mercy to him, to our fallen brother, to his family, to his loved ones, and to the Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, the dollar at $1.9 a.m. in September, despite a lot of interference from the Central Bank, the increase is now at $2,275, more than 20 per cent. This increased exorbitant, dependent on the outside, unproductive, delivered to the interest lobby by the government itself, has been pursued by the exploitation of foreign capital, thus signalling new earthquakes, new hurricanes in our fragile economy. The government, who says it works miracles in the economy, is just watching. The AKP, which groans the earth for stability, can't stop this evil course that raises the economy's heat and makes it unable to handle external debt. The weather that broke down in the country since December 17th was a process that had to be carefully followed by the government, while Mr. Erdogan, in an attitude to protect the 3-5 thieves and the corruption of the country, with an attitude that set the economy on fire, fighting with institutions, threatening businessmen, the press, anyone who comes in front of it, has suddenly turned into disaster weather scenarios of the country's prospects for the future. Don't blame anyone, gentlemen, blame yourself and look for it in your politics. For 3-5 people, you've already burned the country, the economy, the fixed-income parts, the farmer, the worker, the civil servant and the tradesman on the line bridge. You didn't have any money for these parts anyway, and now you're just going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Here's your last trick: a new burden, a new torture. You're pulling the plug on a patient who's already on a ventilator. With the decisions the government has made, it has taken the authority from municipalities to determine the occupation, entertainment and sign tax paid by the tradesman. The occupation, weekend tuition, sign tax, and entertainment tax have been raised with exorbitant increases, so close your doors to the shop. The AKP esnafa, who has always been the government of the mall, is about to strike the final blow. Whose government are you, for God's sake? Look at these raises, these increases. For God's sake, where's the pity in that, the conscience in that? Please, put your hand on your conscience and think about it. The market shop pays an occupation fee of 350 per cent, raising from 60 cents to $2.5 per cent. Let's look at the sign tax. Example: He set his square meter at Isparta City Hall at $30, but when he took the authority over the government, the tax went up 100 percent, and the price of the square meter went up to 60 lira. What about the weekend tuition? On Sundays, the tuition was $20, the Council of Ministers' decision raised the tuition by 3,000 per cent and raised it to $600. So, what about the entertainment tax? The municipality received a 50-cent tax per machine at the place where it operates, raising the increase to 600 per machine to $3 per machine. What do you think, for God's sake, the precious AKP MPs, the precious government, the merchant's hand in oil? Their last names aren't Çuk, their last names aren't Tophead, they can't just donate $100 million to a number of foundations known to everyone. You've paralyzed the economy and social sectors. The budget is no longer patched. That's the solution you've come up with, financing the budget holes, closing them down on the low-income. Tell your bureaucrats to eat less and get off the shop. Does Mr. Mehmet have to pay for the damage your immediate environment, your parties have done to the economy, to the country, to the marketer Ali Effendi? Put an end to this persecution, this injustice, and we follow it as the National Party of Action. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0133par0105	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in the 40th article, and I read the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 40 of the current bill. At the end of the clause, we propose that the expression "disposable" be changed to "anonymous." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu chooses Vahab Rahmi Love Spectacular Malik Ecder Özdemir Ramadan Kerim Özkan Turhan Tayan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of "disputable" in Article 40 of the current 524 rows of the Bill of Law be changed into "anonymous." Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Ahmet Duran Bulut Emin Çınar S. Nevzat Don't Fear Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 40 be removed from the draft text of the current law proposal 524 rows. İdris Baluken Secret One for Sakık Property Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0134par0132	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0133par0133	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0135par0134	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0136par0135	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0133par0136	I'm reading the reason: As part of amendments to Article 3713 and Article 1 of the Anti-Terror Act, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy shall be transferred to the situation in which the rights result. In a period when the lifting of the Anti-Terror Law is constantly expressed in terms of the importance of democracy and human rights, it is demanded by our party and democratic public opinion, and it is declared that it will be lifted by the Prime Minister himself, the change in the law is a contradiction. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, the two proposals I'm going to read are the same thing, and we're going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of "disputable" in Article 40 of the current 524 rows of the Bill of Law be changed into "anonymous." S. Nevzat Korkmaz (Isparta) and his friends Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 40 of the current bill. At the end of the clause, we propose that the expression "disposable" be changed to "anonymous." A Remembrance of the Mighty heavens and His companions. Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0137par0149	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0133par0150	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0138par0151	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0133par0152	Who's going to talk about the motions?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0139par0153	I'll do the talking, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0133par0154	Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0139par0157	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, once again, I salute your delegation. This bill contains some real issues, some improvements, regarding our disabled brothers and sisters. The National Movement Party has tried to contribute from its own weight in both the Plan Budget Commission and the General Assembly and has supported and submitted motions for the benefit of our disabled brothers. In fact, such materials are issues that will be brought to an alliance with the General Assembly. I mean, only if it comes with these ingredients will the General Assembly come forward without delay, but the AKP will have to flood the water. To this arrangement, whatever specific issues there are, the evil behind the good things will hide the things that carry the good things and the good intentions, and that is how he will get what he really wants. It is the Justice and Development Party that prevents the House from working in peace. Separate these substances from each other, and do not expect any material to come out of the alliance. We have thousands of people waiting for this arrangement. Let's discuss the rest of the stuff, let's discuss it enough, but it's not about eating grapes. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to share with you a problem that has been delivered to us many times. I'm going to tell the miners about your persecution of forest permits from the Ministry of Forests based on the General Directorate of Mines and the mining fields. On June 16, 2012, the Prime Minister's office issued a General Assembly of 2012/15. Public institutions and their companies have been granted permission from the Prime Minister in all their transactions, such as sales, rent, exchanges, and so on, in regard to the assets they own or keep. This makes it clear that even though all the documents the legislation requires have been completed, the Prime Minister would not freely allow you to do so. License applications are still pending at MiGEM and the Forest General Directorate. You're going to transfer the licenses, but you can't. This brings to mind bad thoughts. After seeing these shoeboxes and cash boxes, you can't help but think about other things. Why does an executive make things so difficult, dear friends? Why does everything make it so difficult when it's done and prepared? I mean, what's the big deal? Your intention is to torment or to say, "This is an easy thing to do." It's to deliver your message. Your practice, such as persecution, is being manipulated by the profits and reputations of the firms. They're applying to BIMER, and they're getting very funny answers, like, "Your application is not appropriate." he said: "O my people! So these firms won't apply, they won't look for their rights? Dear lawmakers, the AKP has become a party to torture citizens. People invest; dozens, hundreds of workers are kept waiting to work in vain, and companies are being damaged. It clears the way for unfair competition. Mining has already been transformed into a freaky industry that needs to be handled in your time as well. I want to be a manipulator. The company, institutions, and organizations that say, has to get 14 separate permits. Not one of those permits will be missing, or you'll be burned. The work that is already moving at the speed of the turtle is also brought to a standstill by the Prime Minister. In addition, the permits granted by the institutions are due to technical examination. So, what's the Prime Minister looking at? Whether or not the miner owns it, the contribution he makes to the shoeboxes, or what? What kind of information does the local center have, but the center can be decision-making? Both the Mining Engineers' Room and the miners are bleeding. No, these problems don't matter, sir, but it's about Bilal boy. Otherwise, wouldn't the government, bringing the HSYK law to Parliament in one night, bring a bill 50 times that relieves the problems of the mining field? These are noted by our people and by the business world. When you ask for a license in the election, you'll see if it's a hand or a hand or a hand or a hand or a hand. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0140par0168	Thank you. İstanbul MP Kadir Gökmen Öğün will talk on the other proposal of the same nature.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0141par0171	Dear President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Republican Party on the matter of Article 40. Since December 17th, our country has been in great chaos. The situation we're in seems to be making a lot of progress tomorrow. I'm going to try to tell you again what's in the shadow of this hot agenda and what's being tried to be eclipsed. Dear lawmakers, according to Labour Health and Occupational Safety Assembly data, at least 1,235 workers died in 2013 in the business accidents of all working communities. These workers, unfortunately, are child laborers. Another important fact is that labor deaths are in the areas of work, where unsubstantiated and unsecured working conditions exist. Today, unionisation is at the lowest level. One million of our 11 million and 500,000 workers are unionists, and that's only 10 percent. We can't get you to hear the voices of those who live in retirement, and they can't make any kind of action out of it, but they can't. According to the results of the TÜRK-İSK-İSK's Research on the Limit of Hunger and Poverty, a family of four in January must spend $1.099 in order to be healthy, balanced and adequate to feed. The minimum wage you've determined in return is an embarrassing amount of 846 lira. Although your Minister of Labor said last year there was no large sum of money, no living. But we say, "Let him live, let him live, and let him tell the nation how he lived." You shall boast of the economy, and lend money to the IMF. You shall shout out in the squares, and we shall go into politics with broken shoes. You shall say, "You shall hide millions in the shoeboxes, and you shall take away the rights of the pensioner, and the worker, and the student, and the orphan in a sack." Our pensioners, our workers, the ones you've put up with so many injustices, the ones you've left behind; the ones you've tried to shift to 10,000 assignments in February waiting for at least 400,000 appointments; the ones you've been making fun of while you're dealing with your ships; the ones you've been giving away these model ships as gifts; the millions of students you've been victimizing, worried about your future; the ones you've left to your children; the ones you've left on your cell phones, the ones you've been leaving behind, the patients you've been putting out of your performance system; the ones you've been using as a gift; the ones you've been using our religion; the millions of our children's children's lives; the ones you've been threatening, the ones you've been putting back into the game that are now, the lives of our parents. They won't forgive you in any way. Dear MPs, your Prime Minister says to us the prayers of Damascus and Baghdad are enough. What Damascus is he referring to, what Baghdad? Is it Baghdad, where America entered to bring so-called democracy and prosperity, in fact, for oil, but after all these years, the sound of bombs is raised every day? Is it Damascus, where you turn your back on your new Ottoman foreign policy and support its destruction? From Baghdad, where 1.5 million Muslims have died, you receive prayers from Damascus, and from the sons of this country, only from Pennsylvania. We've already worn our khakis. You're saying that from now on, it's only because of the young people you put in a shroud in the Travel, and you're only getting an ah. Tell you what it means to wear a shroud, the mothers and fathers of seven young people whose names you have not mentioned once, nor have you wished for mercy. I have never seen a father learnt stealing from his son, but theft goes from father to son. He said, "If it were my father's son, we would not pay a price for the fight against corruption. The Prime Minister, who gave the speeches, brought his own son to public after being called to testify in the prosecutor's office, in an untouchable manner. Aren't your children, your pupils, your precious children of this country, the other children of this country, the ones who were tortured in prisons, the ones who were still imprisoned in Gezil, the ones who crossed the prison routes to see their imprisoned parents? You said that when the intellectuals, journalists, writers of this country are being unjustly thrown into a prison, the rectors gather from homes during night operations, you give to the elections in the judiciary as long as God, who I am a victim, gives and gives to them. We've told you many times about this conspiracy around here. Back then, taking over the government was your common goal, and you were doing great arm in arm. Without us, there will be no congregations. Your Deputy Prime Minister makes threats. There is almost no religion without us, and the oppressor will be silent, and the mosques will fall down. He will say, "But he has no tongue." Young people on social media, let this parallel state, the dark gang, the secret organization, the virus, the Hashhasi congregation go as well. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you'd be doing a good job. They say. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0142par0183	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the 40th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 41: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 41 of the current bill. Article 1 in paragraph 2. According to the article, after the expression, we submit the addition of the whole expression. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Sinan Aydın Aygün Bkent Tezcan Ali Riza Özturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 41 of Law Bill 524 be changed as follows. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Sinan Oğan Emin Çınar Article 41-3713, in the first joke of Article 13 of Article 13, the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and the fourth and fifth joke, in its second joke, "By the Ministry of Interior and Social Policy," has been changed as follows. "This clause shall be carried out in applications according to Article 1 of Article 1 prior to the date of this clause." "Admissions made under Article 1 of this clause will be completed within a month from the date of this joke, until 31/3/2014, as of the date of its application, and the appointments to be made will not be subject to restrictions in central management budget laws. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 41 of the 524 law proposal be removed from the draft text. İdris Baluken Secret Pervin Buldan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0143par0213	Mr. President, before I report this, I'd like to make a brief statement. I thank Mr. Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, who has informed us of something we do not know. And we, from the village of Gölkonak in Yenisharbademli, ask for the mercy of our brother, Gunnery Sergeant Mustafa Celebrity. My hand was killed in an accident in Bornova. I wanted to express it. [[Continue]] We can't agree with the motion.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0144par0221	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0145par0222	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0146par0223	Motive...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0144par0224	I'm reading the reason: The lifting of the Anti-Terror Law is a conflicting situation in a period in which the importance of democracy and human rights is constantly expressed, demanded by our party and democratic public opinion and declared to be removed by the Prime Minister himself. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, we, as the Court, regret to inform you that Specialist Sergeant Mustafa Celebrity, registered in the village of Yenişarbademli, the District of Isparta, has been killed while serving as a patriot in İzmir, and that we offer him the grace of Allah and of our family and our nation. [[Continue]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 41 of Law Bill 524 be changed as follows. Oktay Vural (Izmir) and his friends Article 41-3713, in the first joke of Article 13 of Article 13, the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and the fourth and fifth joke, in its second joke, "By the Ministry of Interior and Social Policy," has been changed as follows. "This clause shall be carried out in applications according to Article 1 of Article 1 prior to the date of this clause." "Admissions made under Article 1 of this clause will be completed within a month of the application date from the date of this joke, up to 31/3/2014, and will not be subject to restrictions in the central management budget laws of the year. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0147par0244	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0144par0245	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0148par0246	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0144par0247	Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0149par0250	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were sentenced 31 years ago to death by the foot games of the September 12th courts and were killed at Gaziantep Prison on 31 January 1983, when he was just 25 years old. Last week, in the treacherous attack at the opening of the Istanbul Esenyurt election office, the extensions of the mindsets of which the AKP fed and raised, which it embraced and pampered in Imralı, were shot to death by Yusufiyeli Cengiz Akyıldıld. First Ahmet Kerse, and lastly Genghis Akyil of Yusufiye, and lastly Mustafa Celebrity, whom we have received today's news of his martyrdom, are all our martyrs. It's time he learned from those who fell into the ground wearing shrouds to clean shoeboxes on the ground with fake shroud literature. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is under amendment to the agency and its duties. However, I don't know if you've ever studied how it's done in the world. I don't know what we can do about it when Turkey is an active country in the fight against terrorism, Mr. Secretary, what we can do about it, to their families, relatives, veterans, families, relatives, veterans, what we can do about it. In this regard, we did a study, hoping that perhaps it would guide you. In 11 countries around the world, we've studied the concept of martyrs and veterans -- which in some countries, you know, there are no such concepts -- regulations, laws, we've studied them. As we study these -- we regret to say that we have learned that Turkey, unfortunately, is in the midst of these countries in the world, in order to take care of its martyr, its veteran, perhaps in the middle, or even in the lower ranks. In a country where the concept of martyrdom, such as Turkey, is extremely important, where our veterans, the family of martyrs and relatives must be kept in their hands, unfortunately, many of our veterans' problems have not been solved, the relatives of our fallen families are in poverty. We see these people, who have all hope for one child, who may have a job in the future and who are martyrs where they will take care of their family, regretting that their families have even done so from time to time. I would also like to point out that the application in this article must be completed by March 31, 2014, and by the time this joke is in effect, within a month at the latest. Mr. Secretary, we're really having trouble understanding. It's impossible to understand the logic of quitting their applications the following year, even 2015, when we need to give them jobs as soon as possible to our families and their relatives. So if we're here today, if this Congress is open today, if our flag is flying, if we're walking with our foreheads open, dear friends, we owe it to this country from the past to our fallen people and our fallen people who have lost their limbs. Therefore, to a person who has lost a relative, to a person who has lost his limb, no matter how much you limit what to do financially, no matter how much you increase your limit, you can't bring back what he lost. At least, at least, in a sense, we need to solve the problems of these environments, of our martyrs, of our veterans. Mr. Secretary, you've just begun your mission, and I wish you all the best, and please remember, first of all, what we need to do is take care of our fellow martyrs -- these are the areas we care most about -- and those are the relatives of the veterans. In Turkey, unfortunately, these parts you've sacrificed for the opening at least remember and cherish in your new Ministry, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0150par0257	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0151par0258	Mr. President, may I make a statement?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0150par0259	Sir?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0151par0260	Now, we need an explanation for your honor's speech.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0150par0261	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0151par0264	I find it necessary to make this statement on the speech of lawmakers speaking on behalf of the National Movement Party for the past few days. The attack on the National Movement Party's election office in Esenyurt was not a political event, it was explained by authorities as a result of a judicial street discussion, and it was seen clearly and clearly in the public view. And we've been saying from the very first day that this incident was unacceptable, that this attack on the National Movement Party was also an attack on all democratic politics. However, MPs from the National Movement Party, who are on this stand, are trying to project this as a political event and to bring up the risk of confronting the masses in that way. I'd like to point out that this is a dangerous approach. Lawmakers should be more responsible for this issue. Since then, we have been well aware of the political consequences of the street fight in Turkey, which could be caused by political crowds. Therefore, I invite lawmakers to use a more responsible language and style.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0150par0266	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0152par0267	Mr. President... Here you go. Mr. President, the Deputy Director of the Group of Peace and Democracy has now made a statement as if all the evidence has been reached, all the subtleties, all the details have appeared in a matter that is still under investigation. For one thing, we need to ask you right on the eve of this conversation: How do you know all these details?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0153par0271	Didn't you read the authorities' statement?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0152par0272	Authorities have made statements, but their objections to these statements have been delivered by the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0153par0273	The police, the Home Office, have a statement, Mr. Nevzat.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0154par0274	Please, let's not talk in person.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0152par0275	As the headquarters of the National Movement Party, all our messages to the public as the Parliamentary Group are admissible messages. It has been said many times that our most important value is our national unity and our unity, our brotherhood. Therefore, I don't think it's right for the Deputy Director of the Peace and Democracy Party to try to patch such an adjective into the National Movement Party. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0155par0277	No, no, no. Glory be to Him. Mr. President, to the National Movement Party...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0156par0280	Wait a minute... wait a minute... Idris Bauken didn't give a provocative speech, so let me make it clear.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0155par0282	Yeah, on the contrary, I mean, that kind of...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0156par0283	He made a status check on his part, and you made a status check. What you said is on the record. Of course, as lawmakers, we have to take care of these delicate matters.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0155par0284	We haven't given a speech accusing a political party of that entirely.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0156par0285	You didn't. I said it, and it's on the record.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0155par0286	We have stated that the MPs need to take a more responsible approach.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0156par0287	Yes, I believe we should all be sensitive about such delicate matters and thank you. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 41 of the current bill. Article 1 in paragraph 2. According to the article, after the expression, we submit the addition of the whole expression. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0157par0299	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0156par0300	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0158par0301	We can't agree. Mr. President, on behalf of myself and my government, Isparta Yenisharbademli village of Gülkonak, Gunnery Sergeant Mustafa Celebrity has been killed in an accident.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0156par0305	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0159par0306	Mr. President, may I have a word?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0156par0307	Here you are, Mr. Akif Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0159par0309	Thank you, Mr. President. As the Republican People's Party Group, we ask for God's mercy to our Special Sergeant, who was a martyr in Isparta Yeni Şabademli, to the family of our fallen Sergeant, the Turkish Armed Forces and our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0160par0312	Thank you. [[Continue]] Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk will be speaking on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0161par0321	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on Article 41. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the citizens who watch us at the head of television will see the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and think Turkey is really a rose. He'll think the investigation into corruption and bribery launched on December 17th was legal and safe. Everything's in order so that he'll realize that he doesn't really realize that we're doing legislature with things that aren't relevant to the demands of the Turkish community. We're actually doing legislature here. So one of the most important tasks of the Grand National Assembly in Turkey should be to expose the corruption and bribery that really shakes the community in Turkey, even concerns the world's public, and to ensure that these investigations are conducted safely. We all know, indeed, that the ministers' children are in their bedrooms, the cash in the vaults, and again, the money found in the shoeboxes of a bank manager's house, and a Prime Minister who is afraid to testify, is not going to testify! The second investigation is unclear as to what the file is called. The investigation has been closed. He's still got the power to shut down the first investigation. We're playing the law here. It's not a big deal whether the Minister of Family and Social Policy will employ terrorist martyrs or veterans; it's the security of the law in this country that matters; it's the peace and security of the investigations of the people who have launched an investigation into their rights on the charge that the judiciary has committed an unbiased and independent crime. See, the last measures on the property of arrested businessman Reza Zarrab have been lifted after 42 days. İstanbul 29. The Criminal Court of Peace is removing these measures, and the prosecutor, who objects to them, is being dismissed from that investigation before he can complete his objection. Now, who are you going to convince if you tell us that Reza Zarrab has been found not guilty as a result of this investigation? I thought you didn't want his judge and prosecutor! I thought you wanted people's prosecutors and judges! Again, Come on Salihoglu, who was brought to the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office in İstanbul, has taken two prosecutors out of the file, one of whom is Mehmet Finkıp and one of whom is Celal Kara. Now, my dear friends, if the law can't really carry out its mission safely in a country, if the law enforcement body or the Prime Minister's habit of shaping the judiciary through the legislative body continues, then the Turkish Parliament must sit down and think if it has reached the point where the Prime Minister or the ruling party should be used to cover its disgraces. Today, those who expose corruption, those who investigate corruption are accused of gang, dangerous organization membership, but the evidence of this organization's membership is not revealed. There is no investigation into members of this dangerous organization, no investigation into this dangerous organization. It's just abstract, or ganged up, or conspiracy. The Turkish community is trying to be put to sleep by its words. The ruling party's task is not to cover corruption, bribery and investigations related to this, but to expose them by going all the way. If my son did it, and my father did it, I wouldn't forgive him. Youth is to ensure the safety of the prosecutors who conduct that investigation, as in the cases in the Silivri courts, by giving them an armored car if necessary, to ensure that those investigations be completed in accordance with the law. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0162par0332	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... the 41st article... has been accepted. There are four motions in Article 42: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the provision of the current Ministry of Family and Social Policy shall be changed by the State of the Union and by the State of the Law and by the Court of Law and by the Court of Law to make changes in the framework of Article 42 of the Law. Mihrimah Belma Line Sevim Fighter Gülay Dalyan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 42 of Law Bill 524 be changed in the following manner. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Ahmet Duran Bulut Emin Çınar "The sentence added to Article 49 of Article No. 4447, dated 42-25/8/999. "The unemployment insurance share of mentally or mentally disabled people who work in protected businesses and are hard to get into the labour market is covered by the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy for this purpose." Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 524th article of the 524 Term Numbered Bill, dated 25/8/1999, shall be removed from the draft text of the 42th Article, which stipulates to edit Article 49 of the Act on Unemployment Insurance No. 4447. İdris Baluken Secret Pervin Buldan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 42nd of the Common Legislature. We request that the item be removed from the text. Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Pine Izzet Cetin Muslim Sarı Does the Commission agree with the last two motions I read?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0163par0365	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0162par0366	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0164par0367	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0162par0368	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0165par0369	Motive...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0162par0370	I'm reading the reason: The attempt to include disabled citizens in social life through employment is, of course, a very important work, and it deserves support. However, the AKP's government has opened this option to disabled citizens and has shown them that they are eliminating a victims' area, while new victimology and illegal practices are emerging. The payment of unemployment benefit from the unemployment insurance fund is also incompatible with the principle of social law. The AKP seems to be doing a good job by abusing our disabled citizens, using the funds against its purpose, as well as putting its social responsibility on the shoulders of workers and workers. Thus, as this change is not intended for the employment of disabled citizens, more space should be opened for the increase and incentive of this employment. However, the employer's share should not be left on the back of the poor worker, but the majority of the winners and other public financing tools should be allowed to take responsibility for this bonus. The change has been intended to prevent the abuse of our disabled citizens and to allow further incentives to be removed and removed from the obstacles in front of their employment. Ankara MP Izzet Çetin will talk on the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0166par0377	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion in Article 42 of Bill 524. I salute you all. Dear friends, as Mr. Ozturk said a moment ago, we are really playing the law. We either don't understand each other from time to time, during law disputes, or we ignore our instructions. We explained for hours that it was the duty of the Minister of Family and Social Policy to protect the disadvantaged segments in our society, especially the disabled -- the mentally and mentally disabled -- during the discussion of the lower commission, and that it was the duty of the social state to bring them into society, especially during the discussion of the Central Commission's main Commission, and that it was in accordance with a budget of the Ministry's law-making technique, but our fellow members of the Commission did not take a step beyond their instructions to do so.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0167par0379	Mr. Cetin, it's a shame! Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0166par0380	Of course, we're one item, Mr. Informant, one item, three of the same, 59 of the same substance, and we've corrected a clause in the Commission. In parentheses, I don't think Mr. Secretary has any responsibility for drafting the bill or proposals because he's new, it was prepared by our former Minister. Dear friends, indeed, must be brought to a disabled society. It's the social government's job to make them business and professions, and we agree on that. The same will be seen in the text of matter related to physical, mental, and mental disability that they will never be able to be brought into the labour market. Because of that, we said it was not right to receive it from the unemployment fund. Now, in the ruling party's motion, we see that our hours have been wasted, our hours have been wasted in the main commission and the subcommittee, and now it's back to the real thing, which is a happy situation. But, the unemployment benefit -- you all know -- is being used outside the foundation. Unfortunately, there was a fund lobby during the AKP administration. How do we drink the Unemployment Insurance Fund, how do we extract resources from there? But, we've asked the ministers, we've asked a lot of ministers in writing, we've asked the Minister of Labor during budget talks, where they're being used anonymously. There's a fact that the GAP investments aren't being spent on completion. Even that wasn't used to his purpose. Look, the unemployment fund is in the middle. You've lost $11.5 billion since 2008, under the name "GAP investments." I'm looking for a ministry where I'm going to learn where this $11.5 billion goes, where you've spent it, and I'm asking the Department of Labor where you spent it, and the response in writing came from: there's no details on this issue in our organization based on the temporary 6th article of the Unemployment Insurance Act: since it was transferred from 2008 to 2013 to $11.5 billion in Treasury Internal Pays Accounts Accounts Accounting Accounts, and the spending pens are based on the decision of the High Planning Board. Dear friends, an answer that would not suit a ministry. So, if the details can't be found, they'll be answered by the relevant ministry, and they'll be given a straight, serious answer to the question the congressman asked. I mean, we're always saying that the unemployment fund's resources aren't being used very well. Employers and labour representatives under the Fund have a great deal of responsibility here, and the task falls. The Fund is a fund established, built to allow workers to have jobs and jobs, to live their lives for a period of time, not to be used without purpose. And I want to thank you for coming back from this, with all due respect.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0168par0385	Thank you. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 42 of Law Bill 524 be changed in the following manner. Emin Çınar (Castamon) and his friends "The following sentence was added to the first sentence in Article 49 of Article 4447 of unemployment insurance, dated 42-25/8/999. "The unemployment insurance share of mentally or mentally disabled people who work in protected businesses and are hard to get into the labour market is covered by the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy for this purpose." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0169par0394	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0168par0395	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0170par0396	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0168par0397	Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı will talk on the motion. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0171par0400	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Under Article 42 of the bill, the unemployment insurance share of mental and mental disabled workers working in protected workplaces is expected to be covered by the unemployment insurance fund. We support the arrangements to promote disabled employment as the National Movement Party. In this arrangement aimed at promoting disability employment, we recommend that unemployment insurance should be covered from the budget of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, not from the Unemployment Insurance Fund. The AKP government has used its workers' resources for other purposes, with many arrangements so far piling up in the Unemployment Insurance Fund. Such provisions in the unemployment insurance Act are incompatible arrangements for the purpose of the fund. The main goal of the unemployment benefit fund is to protect unemployed workers. The conditions for the unemployment benefit of unemployed insurance workers have been put into practice, while the amount of unemployment allowance should be extended, the amount of labour market policies should be weighted, while the regulations for transferring unemployment insurance Fund to employers have been implemented. The AKP's governments have so far failed to make a serious claim on the fight against unemployment, unable to address the structural problems of employment, unable to find a solution to unemployment. In poll-set labour force indicators, unemployment has not been reduced, chronically, despite factors such as those who were not looking for a job were not included in the number at the time, the college explosion concealing young unemployment. According to the latest data released by TÜİK in October 2013, the official number of unemployed is 2,733,000, while the number of unemployed who are not looking for a job is 1,913. The unemployment rate, purged from season effects, reached 9.9% of the same month last year, from 9.3% to 9.9%. In this period, the unemployment rate has risen from 11.7 to 12.1, while the youth unemployment rate has risen from 18.1 to 18.3. In particular, young unemployment is at high rates, even according to official data. While the official figures reveal the frightening dimensions of unemployment, unemployment is indeed at a higher and more alarming point. The number of unemployed has risen to 5,18,000, when not shown among unemployed, who are ready to look for work and are included in under-seasoned jobs and seasonal workers. According to the same calculation, the actual unemployment rate, which was 14 per cent in 2002, reached 17.1 per cent as of October 2013. Today, hundreds of thousands of teachers are unemployed, agricultural engineers, food engineers, water products engineers, veterinary physicians are unemployed; economists, entrepreneurs, technicians are unemployed. It's like colleges give you an unemployment degree. Many college graduates have to work as slaves as subcontractors for minimum wage. Today, in every family, the cries of unemployed youth rise. Our young people are suffering from unemployment. In our country, one out of every five people who can work is unemployed. In our country, where the youth unemployment rate is ignored, policies that will create more jobs for our young unemployed must be implemented. The lack of sufficient interconnection between employment and education and the lack of the level required for vocational education in terms of the labour market needs is causing imbalances between the quality of manpower and the demand of the labour market, and simultaneously causing unemployment and empty jobs. As a matter of fact, there are millions of unemployed people in our country, but today our employers are having trouble finding qualified employees they are looking for, even in some professions. Basically, the fact that our industry has not been trained as inter-employees is a concrete indicator of its failure and failure in this area by AKP governments who have ruled the country for 11 years. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0172par0410	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose that the statement of the current Ministry of Family and Social Policy be changed by the State of the Law and by the State of the Law and by the Court of Law and by the terms of Article 42 of the Law shall be changed. Sevim Warker (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0173par0417	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0172par0418	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0174par0419	We agree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0175par0420	Let the reason be read, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0172par0421	I'm reading the reason: In order to encourage disabled employment, mental or mental disability, which works in protected workplaces and is difficult to get into the labour market, is intended to be paid by the Treasury for the unemployment benefit of the employer. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 42nd article is accepted. There are three motions in Article 43: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the declaration of "twos" in Article 43 of the current law proposal 524 be changed into "threes." İdris Baluken Secret One for Sakık Property Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "the most disabled" in Article 43 of Law Bill 524, which is being discussed, should be changed into "the disabled with the highest members." Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Sinan Oğan Emin Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 43rd of the current bill of law. We propose that the expression "from the top institution representing the most disabled" in its Article be replaced by "from the two upper bodies representing the most disabled." Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Pine Izzet Cetin Muslim Sarı Mehmet Ali Sesam Celal Dinçer Does the Commission agree with the final motion that was read?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0176par0450	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0172par0451	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0177par0452	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0178par0453	Celal Dinçer will speak.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0172par0454	İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer will discuss the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0179par0457	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable MPs, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 43 of Law 524. I salute your high council. As it is known, Turkey's Accreditation Institution 4457 has been established with Act 4457, in order to ensure that those institutions operate according to national and international standards, and the adoption of documents organised by such agencies in the national and international area. The proposed amendment and the consultation board among the Turkish Accreditation Agency bodies have been offered to attend as representatives of our disabled citizens with this bag of legislation, which is actually a good practice. The representation of disabled upper institutions within this important institution is favourable, but there will be a lot of objections and challenges during the determination of two representatives from the top institutions representing the most disabled, the implementation of the sentence expressed in the article. What institution represents the most disabled, Minister? What kind of advice do you make on that? They don't have the required conditions, like other employees and civil servants, in the register of members of disabled upper institutions. It is open to both power and abuse to find out which upper body represents the most members. Since Article 13 of the Turkish Employment Institution Act (f) has the same error in its context, I have offered the law to correct this error, and I have recommended that a representative from the Confederacy of the disabled be taken. The same arrangement must be made here, otherwise you will have to correct the proposed amendment with a new bag of legislation. The hasty proposals of the law, the change of proposals, unfortunately, are always causing these problems. Of course, the ruling representatives don't have much trouble with it because their tongues are tied, only their arms open for voting. The job falls to opposition parties, we have to study every law, every proposal, investigate it, expose the obvious mistakes without the law, but here we face the stubbornness of power. Hopefully, the days will come when the stubbornness will come, and we will make better laws for the good of the people here. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I'd like to point out that while our Minister is in the hall -- I took a statement in Article 34, and you were not in the hall at the time -- you're reducing funds and trust revenues. You're transferring funds and trust funds to a home-building mission for the Credit and Homes Association. These mistakes have been made in the past. The Savings Incentive Fund was established, used for other jobs. There have been cutbacks called MEYAK, used for other work. KEY's been cut off, used for other jobs. Now you're making the same mistake: you're using the foundation's income for the country, you're going to go into the poor man's pocket, you're going to go down his throat, you're looking for three cents to go down his throat. We can't accept that. By the way, while our Minister is in the hall again, I'd like to discuss a few issues with the foundation staff. There's nothing in this law about foundation personnel. There are demands that the foundation staff be staffed, at least they want assurances, that the foundation staff working at around 67,000 should come to us with assurances. But there is nothing in this law. Norm, the staff is extremely inadequate in all the foundations, Mr. Secretary. There's earthquake zones, disaster zones. People are doing this in all the cities. The foundation staff is so inadequate, they have to work day and night. There's a lower and higher limit to the rights of equity. There's no guarantee here, either, between the trustees, the governor and my governor's two lips. In these matters, there must be lasting decisive solutions. They're subjected to a lot of insults because they're constantly engaged in financial aid, complaints, irregular complaints. I'd like to rephrase that these friends of ours lack assurances. And finally, Mr. Secretary, the benefits you're handing out, the benefits you're giving out, the funds you're giving out from the fund, are distributed according to the population criteria. Here, besides the population criteria, the level of development must be considered. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Otherwise, you're sending them to places where the population is dense, where the population is low but very poor, they're not enough. You also need to make an adjustment. Again, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0180par0469	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "the most disabled" in Article 43 of Law Bill 524, which is being discussed, should be changed into "the disabled with the highest members." Oktay Vural (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0181par0476	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0180par0477	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0182par0478	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0180par0479	Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0183par0482	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, I must first point out that today the people who have the most difficulty in finding employment in society are disabled in social areas. And if these disabled are not in the big city, if they are in smaller cities, for example, in Iğdur, our disabled citizens do not have much place to go outside the home. The disabled who are already having a great deal of trouble finding jobs in small places are having serious trouble finding jobs because they are suffering from the guidance of your ministry, as well as from the cause of your ministry; two, they are having serious problems in social life. Of course, local municipalities are expected to do that, but the local authorities don't have much time to do it from contract to disability. In particular, neither local government has been able to save a seat for our disabled citizens in Iğdır. Our disabled citizens have found a place with money in their pockets, they've rented it. You're not leaving our even disabled citizens alone, you're causing problems for our disabled citizens to get together where they rent them. As soon as -- this job doesn't cost much -- it needs both the local governments and your ministry to participate in the social environment, at least to prepare a package program for our disabled citizens to communicate with each other, perhaps a package of ministers -- to design a building, and to make sure that the disabled and the disabled can get together in a place where they can have a social environment. On the other hand, technology has come too far, and our disabled citizens are able to do a lot of work on the computer from home, and the priority needs to be known to them. I had a name for your ministry earlier, Selin nephew. This citizen is disabled, and I'm afraid we haven't been able to implement our citizen's desire to get a job at home. Especially if the call centers go all the way to homes where our disabled citizens can attend, not necessarily when they are gathered together, but rather if a percentage of disabled citizens are given to their call centers, bank jobs, if a certain obligation is brought to them, our disabled citizens can do this online, in their homes, in their computer environment. As long as you have creative opinions about this, as long as you have thoughts for our disabled citizens. Because in small places... maybe this problem can be overcome in large cities, but the bride, Mr. Minister, look at the situation of our disabled citizens in Iğdır, especially not in the city centre, but in the disabled citizens in the village, who are talking to the walls in four walls and until the evening. Our disabled citizens have serious problems at the point of employment, serious problems with socialization. In particular, if some of the activities of ISKUR is reserved for our disabled citizens, especially if the services of banks in certain areas are now automated, done on the Internet, there's a need for a part of them; there's a point to highlight, especially if the call centers are redesigned in the way that our disabled citizens will serve at home, I think the purpose will be made, especially if they are condemned to what their family will bring them home, and only the citizens who have to talk to their family and who have to talk to four walls will have to talk to them. I'd like to underline that in private, Iğdır. Until now, the municipality has offered no service to disabled citizens in Iğdır. The Justice and Development Party has not been able to help all of our disabled citizens at the point of solving problems, let alone the whole of Iğdur. Thank you, our Undersecretary, for passing on a few individual requests, and thank you on behalf of our disabled citizens in Iğdır. But just to be clear, there will be no need for government on March 30th, and there will be no need for the current municipality. I hope to win the city of Iğdır and we will solve the problems of our disabled citizens in Iğdır.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0184par0488	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the declaration of "twos" in Article 43 of the current law proposal 524 be changed into "threes." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0185par0495	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0184par0496	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0186par0497	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit05spe0184par0498	I'm reading the reason: This motion aims to provide an equal number of representatives of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Ministry of Labour and Social Security, Ministry of Development, Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, Ministry of Education and Culture and Tourism on the advisory board. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 43rd article is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0184par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 55th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 524. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now, there are three motions on Article 44, and I'm going to read them in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 44th of the Common Legislature. We would like to change the phrase "Tapu Directorate" in its article to "interested title manager." Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Pine Izzet Çetin Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the declaration of the 524th amendment of the law proposal be changed from the directorate of the ▪tapu, which is part of Article 44. İdris Baluken Secret One for Sakık Property Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 44 of Law Bill 524 be changed in the following manner. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Emin Çınar Ahmet Duran Bulut "MEDDE 44-22/11/2001's declaration of "execution from the "interested title's office" was added after the declaration of the third act in Article 194 of Turkish Civil Law No. 4721." Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0187par0028	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0184par0029	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0188par0030	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0189par0031	Motive...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0184par0032	I'm reading the reason: Matter is being made more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the declaration of the 524th amendment of the law proposal be changed from the directorate of the ▪tapu, which is part of Article 44. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0190par0041	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0184par0042	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0191par0043	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0192par0044	Motive...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0184par0045	I'm reading the reason: This motion aims to ensure that the property of the non-financial spouse can be placed on the property register from all the property managers of the work and the transactions related to the estate. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 44th of the Common Legislature. We would like to have the statement changed from the district of Tapu to the office of the relevant deed. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0193par0054	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0184par0055	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0194par0056	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0184par0057	Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0195par0060	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, today is January 30, 2014, January 31, 2014, the 24th anniversary of the murder of Professor Dr. Muammar Aksoy. As in the other unsolved murders, like in Uður Mumcu, Ahmet Taner was in the barracks, as in Gaffar Okkan, as in Hrant Dink, unfortunately the real powers behind this murder were not detected. I condemn these real powers, all the powers that have not identified or judged the real forces that have committed these murders, from that period to all the power of this period. Dear friends, it has been a month and a half since the 17th December events, the corruption and bribery incidents. All prosecutors, judges and police officers have been relieved of their duties since the corruption and bribery incidents. Unfortunately, however, those corruption and bribery operations have been covered up. At the same time, we see that the proceedings against the ministers were not sent to Parliament. Why don't you come to me, dear friends? I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary of the ruling party, why aren't the proceedings against these four ministers coming with allegations of corruption and bribery? Why doesn't the Minister of Justice's statement to impress the prosecutors come to parliament because of the pressure and speech? If you're sure of yourself, these proceedings will come, the House will be investigated, the ministers will go to the Supreme Court, they'll be acquitted, but you're not sure you're bringing them in. In fact, he interfered with a Minister of Justice, phoned the prosecutors, said to turn off these corruptions. If it is called that Minister of Justice should resign in democratic law, but unfortunately there is no democratic law state in this country anymore. At the same time, by the Prime Minister and the ministers, there is a gang in the government, there is an organized gang within the state, there is a parallel structure. It's called "crimes," it's said that they committed crimes that cost people their freedoms, their lives, but there's not a single thing that's being done to expose the parallel structure of this gang, there's no trial, there's no investigations, they're just changing places of duty. I mean, it's said that you've committed a lot of crimes here, so go work somewhere else. Can you have a sense of state, dear friends? I'm asking you this, but there's no point in asking, and I see you're in no position to answer. What I can talk about with this article, as well as what I can talk about with regard to Article 44 of this Law Bill 524: In fact, a good change is being made in the Civil Law, it is unclear from the authorities or from which office the family dwelling can be handed down. There are decisions made by the Supreme Court on this matter. In order to clarify this, the family dwelling will be placed in the house where the women and children reside, especially by the property manager, without any court rulings. It's a nice change, a change that should be made, but it's not enough to make these changes, Mr. Secretary. When you make such demands, women get violent, and when they get violent, they get killed. In order to eliminate these deaths, women and children really need to protect their family members, but even in women's shelters at 50,000, the population of municipalities can be established in municipalities with 100,000 populations, but the Metropolitan Law has been passed. Mr. Secretary, why haven't we seen any of these materials, why hasn't such a change been made? Really, I'd expect this matter to be brought to the attention, given all the material you've brought up. And they've collected hundreds of young people with a degree in family and consumer science, and they've brought them to all of us, and they say, "With this bill, many staffs are known to psychologists, teachers, but why aren't they assigned to the family and consumer sciences department, why don't they have a staff? I think these kids need to be granted their wishes, too. At the same time, there will be college exams this year. In college exams and a lot of exams, you know, there's been doubts, copying, allegations. Many children are preparing for this test, but I see that if there will be a remake, will there be a duplicate, will there be questions given to children near the congregation and AKP? But I see that this year's children are a bit lucky. Because the AKP and the congregation are in a bit of a fight. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I guess I just don't think they're gonna be able to do this question-stealing thing or question-giving thing. I just think your kids should be a little more comfortable for him. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0196par0072	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 44 is accepted. Members of parliament, there are two motions on Article 45 of the same nature. I'm going to read two proposals of the same nature, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 45 of Law Bill 524 be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Ahmet Duran Bulut Emin Çınar The signatures of the other motion are: Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Izzet Çetin Hasan Ören Does the Commission participate in the reading of the motions?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0197par0091	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0196par0092	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0198par0093	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0196par0094	One of the motions will be addressed by Mr. Hasan Ören, MP of Manisa. Here you go, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0199par0097	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party in Article 45 of Law Bill 524. Again, every time I take the stand, I repeat: The goal of Hakan Thank God is shown again on TRT 3 Parliament channel. But if the House had shown it, I think it would have been better if the public had been able to follow up on these issues involving millions of people about the law. The Public Contraction Act is a law that the Justice and Development Party is very fond of. I mean, you like it so much that you've changed it 25 times from 2002 to today. In 2002, in the past year, the 57th government changed one, making 25 changes to the Justice and Development Party on Public Contraction Law. You've changed the Public Contraction Act five times in 2013 alone. I suppose God gives you the right to know that this is the Public Contraction Law, drawing a road map of the Justice and Development Party. My dear friends, amongst the most modified substances comes the exception. So far, you've changed it to the letter "f." Now we're changing it to 20, we've come to the letter "u." I mean, the last letter of the alphabet is almost up. I'm guessing, in 2014, you'll have to go to the new letters of the alphabet -- the last one we've added. This is about public tenders, your municipalities are very successful. You've developed a new method. One: opportunities for public tenders, opportunities for your municipalities. But, of course, that goes for the mayors of the Justice and Development Party. If the Republican People's Party becomes mayors, the Public Contraction Act is beginning to reverse. By Allah, if it's a little tight, you'll be hosting dozens of inspectors in Izmir City for months when 1 per cent of the changes you've made in the Public Contraction Law in Izmir City have not been implemented. But if it's your own municipality, you divide a huge contract by five, you make $50,000 bids, you give them what you want, and they multiply where you want them. Look at what happened in Turkey: this law changed five times in 2013. We'd be surprised if this bag is in the law -- if it isn't -- that there's no Public Contraction Act in those who have come to this day. Such a habit occurred, and when I moved it further in 2013, that's when the order broke, the glass filled, it started to overflow. When we said something about Ergenekon, didn't you read the pages or look at the tapes... until that day we didn't know what the temple was. We thought it was a cork in an olive oil bottle, but you taught us how to tapas. Well, don't you know about the tapes now? What does the Prime Minister say, or the brother at the end of the phone: what happened to the villa in Urla? Did you not know that I told my skateboard, sir, that he didn't tell the board? What's with the tape? Doesn't anyone read the tapes? When you asked Us about them yesterday, We asked you, "Do you have any problem with them?" Someone has to come here and explain it. The economy will not end in Turkey until you have told citizens of the Republic of Turkey about the December 17th issue from this bench. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0200par0106	Thank you. Mr Mustafa Kalaycı will talk on the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0201par0110	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. A new exception is being brought to the Public Contraction Act. Instead of making exceptions to the Public Contracting Law, buying goods and services, including industrial integration practices, which are important to our country's economy and industry, and to provide localisation and technology transfer, it would be more appropriate to have a separate legal arrangement that will bring ease to these purchases. Today, many governments take great care for the balancing of trade when they make large amounts of foreign purchases and require the purchase company to compensate for its trade deficit through a certain amount of production, investment, export or technology transfer. This process is basically called a make-up process, offset. In other words, offset is the provision of a certain return to the national economy of public procurement and investments in domestic industry, product or service exports, technology gains and investment practices. Offset practices include providing production, ability and capacity in primary areas of the country's domestic industry, investing in the country for this purpose, providing technological infrastructure, creating export opportunities for third countries. Offset applications are the state's office and the office of practice and coordination because the state is composing the balance of payments in public purchases. Here, transactions between the state and the buyer or the seller's parties must be based on a legal basis of sanction if the commitment is not fulfilled; otherwise, the implementation may be difficult. As the buyer sets offset requirements, he considers the technological space, production ability and investment priorities he wants to bring to the country's economy. According to this, offset can be used as an application tool that triggers exports both directly and indirectly. Successful offsets in many countries can be used not only as defence supply projects, but as compensations for supply in all sectors and large-scale public purchases across the country. The offset application, considered one of the main elements of dealing with employment and current open issues, is being followed by strict measures in many developed countries today. If you look at countries that can maintain high growth rates in a sari way over the years, these countries produce high quality products and exports based on these products. An important breakthrough in the field of RD, innovation and technology must be made in order for such production and export structure to be made in our country. The engine power of growth across the world is the capacity for exports based on the manufacturing industry of economies. The share of high-tech products in industrial production and exports has reached double households in many developed and developing countries, while Turkey has been low in the past decade and has significantly decreased in the last decade. In 2003, the share of high-tech products, which were 5.7 per cent in industrial production, was reduced to 3.5 per cent in 2012; again, in 2002, the share of high-tech products, 6.2% in exports, dropped to 3.7 per cent in 2012. It is impossible to achieve high growth goals with a production structure that is not strong in innovation and technology infrastructure and is not based on a jump in the manufacturing industry. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0202par0118	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 45th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 46, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 46th of the current bill of law. At the end of the article, we would like to see the expression changed to the term "ten years." Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Izzet Cetin Musa Pine Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 46 of Law Bill 524 be changed in the following manner. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Ahmet Duran Bulut Emin Çınar Muharrem Varlı "The following paragraph to the subdivision of Article 10 of Article 46-4734 of Article 10 (b) bend (2) at the end of the 3rd joke of the same article: however, documents obtained from construction work cannot be used." sentence added. "f) In technology central businesses, R&amp;D and development projects, supported by public institutions and institutions and foundations established by law or by international funds, and within the framework of pre-competitive co-operation projects and support for those taking advantage of capital support, and documents that can be used by the Ministry of Technology for five years after the project has been introduced to the market due to services and domestic property documents." Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0203par0139	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0202par0140	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0204par0141	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0202par0142	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0205par0143	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0202par0144	I'm reading the reason: The clause envisions considering a fifth of the documents taken from those willing to participate in the tender, from the documents requested for determining economic and financial competencies and professional and technical competencies, due to audit activities. Our proposal stipulates that documents taken due to audit activities should be kept by at least one-fiveth of the first five years, in the following years, in full consideration of documents taken by engineers and architects who have had more than half of the shares of real people and corporate individuals for at least five years, due to job inspection. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 46th of the current bill of law. At the end of the article, we would like to see the expression changed to the term "ten years." Kamer Young (Tunceli) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0206par0154	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0202par0155	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0207par0156	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0202par0157	Mr. Kamer Young will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0208par0160	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the 46th amendment of Bill 524. My respects to all of you. Now, valuable lawmakers, of course, every great experience of states, in that state, in order to make amends for corruption in government, in which people of reason have worked; how we can set rules to prevent corruption, theft in the world, how we can bring rules to prevent it, in that country, in that country, public spending can be made accurate, corruption can not be made, in many states, in civilized states, these are in the laws of the state. This was part of the laws of our Republic of Turkey's state, but with the AKP coming to power, unfortunately, the people in charge of the party are disturbed by the fact that an honest government is being carried out. What do we do? They said: "Why should we rule honestly, since these people are voting for us, we can use all the resources we want." Now, there's no such thing as law. The state's attorney calls the son of the state's prime minister to court as a suspect, saying that he should testify because of illegal conduct, for setting up a gang. On that day, he who sits in the prime minister's office, does not send his child to court, takes him to the next station, walks him to his car, and shows it to the public, "O people, you don't exist, I mock you!" O judge, you are not; O prosecutor, you are not; O police, you are not; I am mocking you! He's saying, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, What does that mean? That means the state of the Republic of Turkey is gone. So, the state of the Republic of Turkey no longer has a state of law, the banditry has begun. Now, if the law doesn't apply, then the banditry has begun. I mean, what happens when you're a bandit, when you have a law in a government, if you don't? Why are you so uncomfortable with this Public Contraction Act that you've made so many changes? Look, two days ago, we looked into the Public Bank's accounts. Friends, they gave $575 million to a company, a company. You know what they did? They vouched for the treasure's land, took collateral. Sir, personal items have been taken here... one of them: two quadrillion liras in the People's Bank. As subcommittee, we ask: "Ya, why did you take the land of this treasure with guarantee?" There is no sound. What did you trade with Iran? There is no voice. What did you buy and sell with Iran? ▪ No sound. How did you sell gold? There is no sound. Now, guys, look, guys, I mean, you're mad at us, and you guys need to think of it as people with conscience. What if $575 million was given to a company, and our subcommittee is there -- if that's not taken as collateral in those shoe boxes -- of course, that's not a company, that's 58 companies -- where the $4.5 million came from. So, now, gentlemen, look, we're all people of this state, we have to protect these people's rights. If there's no law in a country, if there's been theft, if someone's protecting it, if the prosecutors and judges who are investigating it are being removed, then what are we after, what are we talking about here, what are we talking about, what are we talking about? If it weren't for the Republican People's Party right now, you wouldn't be able to get these Republican People's Party into this hall. What kind of advocate is a thief, people? Is it possible that the person who fired the prosecutor who investigated the thief, the person who removed the police, had the right to enter this courtroom? What's the minister defending here? What's the commission standing for?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0209par0166	Mr. Young, please watch your language.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0208par0167	I watch my mouth, you watch your mouth, okay? What do you represent there first?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0209par0169	I'm doing my duty.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0208par0170	Why don't you bring the fezlekes?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0209par0171	Here, take your seat, you're out of time.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0208par0172	Get the fezlekes. Is it the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to protect the thieves? Send back all the complaints about the ministers?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0209par0173	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree..
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0210par0174	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0209par0175	It's over, but it's over, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, time's up.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0211par0176	Look at this Grand National Assembly of Turkey... Let me tell you something about Cemil Cicek.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0209par0178	Mr. Young, your time is up. Would you please take your seat?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0211par0179	Do you know what Cemil Flower did? He got his son-in-law a job at the party, 1 quadrillion 900 million liras... He sold it for $300 billion.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0209par0180	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0212par0181	Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0211par0182	He made a profit of $1.5 trillion in a pen.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0209par0183	Mr. Group Vice President, please, from the chief of staff... Mr. Malik Ecder, please... Mr. Executive Director, please...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0213par0185	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0214par0186	Okay, let me finish my speech. Why are you bothering me? Are you threatening us?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0215par0187	Mr. President, I'd like you to...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0216par0188	I let him behave.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0214par0189	What do you say?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0215par0190	You'll know in the morning.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0217par0191	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0218par0192	I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the 46th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions in Article 47 of the same nature, which I will have read and process together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 47 of Law Bill 524 be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Ahmet Duran Bulut Emin Çınar The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar İzzet Cetin Aydın Agha Ayadın Müslim Sarı Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0219par0209	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0218par0210	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0220par0211	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0218par0212	Mr. Erkan Akçay, the Manisa MP.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0221par0214	Mr. President, as Subcommittee President, I'd like a word.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0218par0215	I'll listen to you after I give the speech.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0222par0216	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 47th Amendment. I salute your honorable committee. A tender is being offered under Article 36 of the Public Contraction Act. According to Article 37, these proposals are being evaluated, and the 38th article is being decided on extreme low bids. This is how the regulation is removed from the text, according to Article 37, in Article 38 of the Public Contraction Act, according to Article 1 of Article 38. The regulation for the evaluation of the proposals is removed from the article. Now, this is very important. There will be serious doubts as to how and how these tender proposals will be evaluated, and question marks arise. The evaluation of proposals is subject to absolute uncertainty. The 47th article, the third joke, is that the Public Contraction Board's powers are being increased, and the Public Contraction Board is authorized to decide without asking for an explanation of the excessive offer, to finalize the tender. These regulations will also lead to arbitrary and different applications between tenders, opening the door. In the end, the regulation of this substance will increase the suspense over the tenders. Many changes have been made during the AKP period in the Public Contracts Act, and in the Public Contracts Act -- the number is controversial -- have been made. According to the Finance Ministry's data, there have been a total of 64 amendments under the Public Contract Act, including 42 of them in other laws. The Public Contractorship has been transformed into a general directorate of the Ministry of Finance. While many tenders were excluded from the scope of the law, the Court was unable to control them, while inspection and audit boards were paralyzed. The Justice and Development Party has invalidated judicial decisions on privatisations by the Council of Ministers' decision -- and I'm not going into details here -- with Law 6300 and the Council of Ministers' Decision 2012/3240. The AKP reduced the prison sentence to five years to three years and the upper limit to twelve years to seven years to those who were corrupting the government's tender. Corruption has been encouraged, as well as a half-enhancing sentence for public damage in the tender. Corruption during the AKP period has become a virus that surrounds our country and infects all institutions. The AKP is in the midst of corruption, with fatherly sons, brother-in-law, brother-in-law, brother-in-law, family and family. In no time in our history has power been involved in such corruption and bribery. Corruption has reached such economic and political dimensions that those who fight corruption, the AKP government and ally media have been slandered, police and judicial members who have gone over corruption have been expelled from the cases. The thieves must have chased the police and the prosecutor. Could it be a Justice Minister trying to obstruct justice? Where in the world has another Minister of Justice been seen, sitting in that office, having been called by the republic's attorney general to prevent corruption? We're dealing with a Minister of Justice and the government who's stubborn not to send the proceedings against corrupt ministers to Parliament. What kind of rash is that? How will this government pay for the rights of 76 million citizens, and when? No corruption. You can't say. You're trying to cover up corruption by calling these operations foreign forces and gangs. And since this is the end of our time, hopefully I'll give you all a lot of respect to continue with the following articles.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0223par0224	Thank you. Mr. Sword, you've entered the system. What is your request?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0224par0226	As subcommittee, Mr. Kamer has made a statement that the People's Bank has used the loans without collateral, and he has made me a witness. I want to explain this.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0225par0227	You were the Subcommittee. Okay, tell me and I'll give you an answer.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0223par0228	You're going to make a statement...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0224par0229	I'll explain.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0223par0230	One minute from your position. System's open, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0224par0234	Mr. President, there was a very high-level commission yesterday regarding the People's Bank. Mr. Kamer, for $575,000...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0226par0235	$575 million...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0223par0236	Congressmans, do not interfere, please.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0224par0237	...he claimed to have used a loan without collateral. That's definitely not true. The bank's risk-taking average is well below the Turkish average and is at the level of 2 per cent. According to customers' ratings, the People's Bank is taking guarantees and using loans in accordance with the BDK and banking regulations. The money found at the General Manager's house is a non-bank-related issue, limited to the fact that the People's Bank Manager is the Bank's General Manager. In our work yesterday, we did the Commission's work with the very positive contributions of all of our Commission members, including Mr. Kamer.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0227par0239	No, I did.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0224par0240	The protection of the People's Bank, one of our country's most important brand values...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0228par0242	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0227par0243	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0224par0244	Mr. President, he praised the People's Bank in the Commission, and here he is...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0229par0245	Sir, this isn't the CSI Commission, this is the General Assembly, let them handle it there, brother.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0227par0246	Mr. President, he gave us the wrong information, so if you'll excuse me, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0230par0247	He didn't give you any information that would require your explanation.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0227par0248	Even though I don't think it's positive...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0231par0249	Take care of it there, dear.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0230par0250	Okay, and you said you didn't find it right. Okay, and you said you didn't find it right, so it's on the record. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0232par0252	No, no, promise me something.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0230par0253	Okay, you said you didn't find it right, it's on the record, over.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0233par0254	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0232par0255	No, sir, I'm recording...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0230par0256	Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0232par0257	I'm asking you, a AKP MP...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0230par0258	I don't want to continue this discussion, please... Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0232par0260	A member of the AKP (AKP) MP, you're not going to be able to...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0234par0261	Sit down, sit down.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0230par0262	Congressman, please do not disrupt the working order.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0232par0263	If you're going to be vice president properly, do it.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0230par0264	Please, it's none of your business what I'm gonna do here. Sit down, you'll have to listen to my decisions. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0232par0266	How am I supposed to listen to your decision? If you make an honest decision, I'll obey. For once, he mistook my thoughts.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0235par0267	Respect the president!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0236par0268	Sir, the CSI Commission is where the results come in on these matters. The conversations here don't come to any conclusions, so do the inspection there, make it sound.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0237par0269	I'm listening, Mr. Akar. Mr. Akar, I'm listening. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0238par0271	Mr. President, in that meeting with the People's Bank on that Commission yesterday, on the subcommittee, I was the spokesman for the Republican People's Party OCE Commission.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0237par0272	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0239par0273	Let him speak on the commission, Mr. President, on the Commission.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0240par0274	Is this the Commission?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0241par0275	If you'll excuse me, I'll give you a minute or two, and I'll tell you how it all worked out.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0242par0276	Here you go, I give you my last word. I'll give you a minute from your position.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0243par0277	No, you have to promise me, sir. I have a right, too.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0242par0278	What you said is on the record. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0244par0281	Yes, Mr. President, thank you. Now, we went to the People's Bank audit, and we attended, and we were overseeing the 2012 accounts, and the $575 million loan that Mr. Kamer mentioned was true, and in exchange for the loan, the treasury deposit was shown, and the treasury land was guaranteed, and the return was around $8 million. Now, about this loan, it actually starts with a very long, 250 million dollars in cash and $40 million in non-profit loans. And there's a 95 million that completes 575, which, by the decision of the Bank's Board of Directors, is definitely not one document taken, nor is there any mortgage taken. Again, this happens with the approval of the Bank's Director General. This bankrupt company also owes $2.8 billion to the market. However, it is credited, and this loan is given two months after the Bank General Manager is in office; it is a very new loan, not an old loan. So this Bank Director -- $4.5 million -- may have been found in his house, but it's a separate matter -- he needs to be removed immediately.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0245par0284	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0246par0285	President, you have to promise me. But you promise him, he denies my word, and I have to answer.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0245par0286	This isn't the CSI Commission, we've talked enough.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0246par0287	Then why did you promise him? Why did you promise him?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0245par0293	On the other motion, Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0246par0294	You're gonna pay for this. I'll ask you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0245par0295	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0247par0296	Mr. President, the bag bill we've discussed with the esteemed MPs envisions amendments to 11 articles of the Public Contraction Act. Since the beginning, Justice and Development Party governments have had a passion to change the Public Contraction Law. The Public Proposal Law is a law that was adopted in accordance with the European Union's acquisitor during the 57th Amendment period and passed the rules that should be in the public tender system, such as transparency, equal treatment, competition. Again, the goal of these three principles, such as transparency, equal treatment, competition, is the effective and efficient use of public resources, but since then the Justice and Development Party has made a total of 34 changes in the Law on Public Contracts 4735, which we can count as a supplement. A total of 57 laws and 182 amendments have been made, given the number of amendments to the tender system in other laws and laws other than the Public Contracts Act. This is a very important number. You're still doing this. One of the two sources of corruption in Turkey is the public tender system and the other is the incentive system. Look, one of the two sources of poor use of resources is the public tender system, the public tender system is also a corrupt system, and the incentive system is a system where resources are used badly. According to OECD, the public tender system constitutes about 15 per cent of the national income of a country. For Turkey, the OECD calculates this figure at 10%. In dollars, we can represent the size of the public tender system in Turkey for 2014 as $86 billion. When you say public tender system 4734, not only the tenders under Law 4734, but also the tenders that have been excluded from the scope of this law, not only by bringing exceptions to Law 4734, but under the Public Resignation Act or under these exceptions, are included in the public tender system. The size of all of this is around 86 billion dollars, and you're making arrangements that are increasingly out of control, which are out of the general principles of the Public Contraction Law. For example, the 47th article that we're talking about creates more flu, darker, less transparent areas, by changing the word "equal" with some changes in the relevant clause of the Public Contraction Law, such as the term "equal" (e.g. I'm giving you a recommendation from here to the government and the General Assembly: please stop making these changes. Constantly, the passion for change in the Public Contraction Act appears to be corruption, a misuse of public resources. Such a passion also distances Turkey from the European Union. In progress reports, Turkey is constantly criticised by the Public Contraction Act, the European tender system. The definition of management is extremely broad. The proposals for narrowing down the exceptions are not taken into account. It is the proposal of the European Union to be introduced into a transparent structure, a competitive structure, an manageable structure, and the effective use of the public resources created by the taxes of the Turkish nation, with a separate legal contract, with a separate legal arrangement. Please don't accept these clauses, please listen to our motions. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0248par0302	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 47th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I don't want to say anything about myself, members of lawmakers, but I'm going to show you the day a congressman made a threat. That's all I'm giving up. I don't take this as a threat, I don't take it as a threat, but I'd like to announce it to the lawmakers who haven't heard it. Yes, there are three motions in Article 48, which I will have read and vote for. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 48th of the current bill of law. At the end of the article, we want to change the expression from 15% to 10%. Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Pine Izzet Cetin Muslim Sarı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the agreement shall be changed in the form of the law under Article 484, not less than 6% and not more than 15%, not less than 5%, and not more than 10%. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Secret Sakık Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 48 of Law Bill 524 be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Ahmet Duran Bulut Emin Çınar Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0249par0328	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0248par0329	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0250par0330	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0248par0331	Adana MP Ali Halaman will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0251par0334	Mr. President, thank you, thank you. I made a promise to change the 48th Amendment to Law 524. I salute your committee with respect and love. This law is 125 articles and is called the law of Torba. There is a 48th article in this law. The content of this 48th article is based on the new proposal of Article 63 of Public Contraction Law 4734, the Ministry of Science Technology... which means I am the new minister. I'm not going to trade with the current law. Let's change this law. He made an offer, so he entered into the law. Now, this Public Contraction Agency has become an institution that exists from the republican era. In particular, the past period of 2001-2002 was a contribution by the National Movement Party to adapt to the European Union and to make it in line with international standards, but over the past 12 years, the current government has been subject to constant change in this Public Contraction Agency, so its institutional structure began to take shape according to more personal requests, according to the authorities. Why is the Minister of Science Technology now in charge of the government changing the 63rd article, which the former minister has followed, which is subject to supervision? Now, the Minister of Technology who left this Ministry said two months ago: "Servet, lust, desire for fame derails, derails people. Thank God, I didn't have anything to do with money, we're comfortable with these matters. The Minister of Science says before that, Minister of Technology. Now, the new Minister might say that every man has a yogurt food. I've become the new Minister, this Ministry's purchase, its sale, its incentives... That's how I'm going to change this to myself. Now, while the Minister of the past has adopted the 63th article and had him inspected by the Public Relations Agency, I'm going to use the local product, I'm going to support the domestic proposal. I want the Public Contraction Agency to supervise me accordingly. Now, the country's been exposed lately, so the country's not doing so well. So what kind of justice is it to employ people from all over this country, especially in this country, who are all kinds of separatists there, who have ambushed this Turkish state, the Turkish nation, and killed our people? So I would like to thank you, all of you, with respect to the great Turkish nation, that it may increase the initiative of a fellow Minister of Science Technology, that it may increase its personal position, that it may increase its desire, but that it will not do any good to our nation, to our country, to our great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0252par0343	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the agreement shall be changed in the form of the 524th law bill, not less than 6% and not more than 15%, not less than 5%, and not more than 10%. Secrets Sakık (Muhs) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0253par0350	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0252par0351	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0254par0352	We disagree. Mr. Sırı Sakık will be speaking on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0255par0355	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all with love. In fact, we don't have the Public Contracts Act on our agenda, these interbank loans, money, stamps, millions of dollars, and that doesn't really interest us because it doesn't reflect on our lives. I'm going to make a different point, and I particularly want to share with you a tragedy that's been happening in prisons for a very long time. Today, their imprisoned and convicted families have applied to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, sharing with us one-on-one the cruel policies against the people in prisons, against the prisoners and the prisoners. The investigations of our party and the Republican People's Party about these prisons are reflected in the public, reflected in Parliament, but there has been no legal arrangement so far. Look, there's a lot of fun exiles. You take people, you arrest them, you arrest them in Mush, they stay in prison for twenty-two years; you take them out of Mush, you send them to Edirne, you send them to Tripoli, you send them to Rize; you take them from Şırnak, you send them to İzmir, and their families have been in prison for twenty years. Yeah, what kind of a law state is that? If you have taken them there, if you have arrested them, how can you give them a second life of exile and wrong their families? Enjoying discipline, that is, that is, the executives there are in an arbitrary practice, that is, the people who are under arrest there, in a intellectual sense, if they feel differently, they are being given a arbitrary discipline. What in God's name are you doing naked, naked, naked, among their organs? How can you talk about a legal state? This is a fun app... during the 12th of September, these applications were being performed, and we're still in the same practice in 2014, and there's another problem with gangrene in prison -- sick inmates and prisoners. The vast majority of these patients, prisoners and prisoners, dear friends, are unable to provide for themselves, are being provided for by their friends. So Hilmioğlu the Conqueror is one of them, who has lost his child and is facing severe punishment, a severe illness. Hundreds of people like him are in prison, and where they can't afford their own needs, they can't get treatment. Will you then take revenge against them? I thought you were a state of law, a social state, where Turkey was the garden of freedom in terms of freedom. Now I remind you, none of this is incompatible with law or conscience or morality. He's in prison, he's a prisoner, you have to watch the TV channel... so there's the same practice today as the military dictatorship, and TV channels, three or two or so, by the prison, by the executives there, you have to watch them to the prisoners... Now, my dear friends, these patients who can't provide for themselves alone, these prisoners, these people who, without the help of their close friends there, can't provide them with anything but a report that we, as Parliament, really know the efforts of the Republican People's Party on this matter, and our efforts should not only be in the name of today's success. You, us, all of us... none of us have any guarantees in this country. We can be arrested tomorrow, our children, all of us, the law applies to all of us. I mean, yesterday's Chief of Staff is inside today. When the Anti-Terror Act came, he said, "It's too much." But he's a prisoner today for the fight against terrorism. So you will not trust anyone or their position or anything. There must be a legal system we can trust, an independent system of justice. This independent judicial system can set this country free. I mean, let's all listen to the voice of this patient, the prisoner and the convicts. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0256par0362	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 48th of the current bill of law. At the end of the article, we ask that his statement be changed to 10%. Haydar Akar and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0257par0369	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0256par0370	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0258par0371	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0256par0372	Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0259par0375	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, the Public Contraction Act came into effect in 2003, and for every bag of law for ten years, that law changed. Why has this law changed, dear friends? Is there any good will in this law to change this much? In 12 years, the AKP changed most of the Public Contracting Law, changed no other law, constantly changing the Public Contracting Law. He didn't turn right, he didn't turn left. Each time, he made different changes to the tender he was most expert in. Could transparency be the cause of these changes? No. Could the goal be to prevent injustice, unlawfulness, corruption, theft? No. Could the tanti be an obstruction of bribes? No. This change has only one purpose, precious MPs, and one goal: how do I give contracts to my own followers, how do I give them to my own party? This law has been changed every time. But, dear lawmakers, is there any other country in the world that has changed the bidding laws so often besides us? Is there another country near us? No. Is there any in Africa? No. It's just impossible to find another country outside our own country that has changed this law. Let's ask it another way. Is there any other law that's changed so much? I don't have that either. The point is clear. What's the point, dear friends? See, again, this is the first time in this period, during the AKP period, this year, the Court has not discussed the reports in parliament. It was the first time the government could not account for the taxes of the people who were controlling the national will, and for the first time the government could not answer. Why would a government run away from an account? Why does a government run away from accountability if it is not afraid of it? Because there are situations he's afraid of, he's afraid of, he's vulnerable. Dear friends, when did this come out? On December 17th, when the greatest corruption in the history of the Republic was discovered, the court's reports were not brought to parliament. Here, I'd like to recommend to the AKP Group that they do the same comparison they always do. Dear lawmakers, you always say one party period at the beginning of each conversation, and every time you talk, you compare it to the republic. I suggest you do it again from here. Compare the theft of December 17th, corruption with the history of the Republic, and look what you get. Dear friends, even compare it to the one-party period. Compare the corruption and thefts of those people you call two drunkards, who you swear at all times at every opportunity, what will come to you? My dear friends, look, you curse at every opportunity, you curse at every opportunity, at every opportunity, at the Inön, at the time of Ataturk, at his time. I want to give you an example. Look, Inönu is taking a trip to Malatya when he was President. On the trip to Malatia, there is a Sumerbank factory founded by our Malatians, founded by the republic -- the Sumerbank factory you've been chasing, with the wind blowing in its place -- a 10-foot rag from that factory is given to the late Mevhibe Hanım, the wife of Ismet Inönu. The day comes when power changes, a ruling party MP brings it up in parliament, says: "O Innu, you were given 10 feet of cloth from the Sumerbank in your visit to Malatya, so answer me. Of course, it sounds like a fairy tale to you, because when you compare it to your own time, is that even possible? Sounds like a fairy tale to you. Dear friends, this is what the Innu, allegedly using the state's resources for its own benefit, tells us by taking 10 feet of cloth. I ask you to compare this aspect of the Inönun to yourself. It's not a fairy tale, it's a true, true, precious friend.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0260par0382	They've institutionalized the theft!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0259par0383	Same thing happens at Malatya City Hall. Look, on December 13, 2011 in Malatya City, 2,200 seedlings were paid $1 trillion 753 billion 480 million for the tender. Look, guys, for 2,200 saplings... the center of the Malatian seedling, the center of the apricot, the center of all kinds of agricultural products. We haven't been able to find out if there's corruption in the tender here. Another issue of Malatya City Hall is a parking meter tender, and unfortunately, we haven't had a chance to look into it. Why? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Because you're changing these laws every time, but you're gonna have to pay for it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0261par0389	Thank you, Mr. Agha. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0262par0391	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0261par0392	Did you have something to say?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0262par0393	I have a request according to Article 60, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0261par0394	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0262par0397	Thank you, Mr. President. Twenty-four years ago today, on January 30, 1990, scientist Professor Muammar Aksoy was killed in an unsolved murder. In the 24th year of his departure, I, Mr. Muammar Aksoy, who was my constitutional law teacher at the faculty of political knowledge, remember with mercy and gratitude that I once again express my wish to clarify these unsolved murders. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0263par0402	Thank you, too. We hereby commemorate the memory of Mr. Muammar Aksoy with respect and love, as the Court. [[Continue]] I will now submit the 48th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The 49th article has three motions, and I'm having them read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly " Three thousand Turkish liras, up to five hundred thousand Turkish liras, up to two million Turkish liras, are the equivalent of the nine thousand Turkish liras, up to fifteen million Turkish liras in the two million Turkish liras. " "In the tenders, which cost up to five hundred thousand Turkish liras, up to five hundred and five hundred Turkish liras, three thousand Turkish liras from the five hundred thousand Turkish liras to the two million Turkish liras, up from the two million Turkish liras to the fifteen million Turkish liras, four thousand Turkish liras, fifteen million Turkish liras, and six thousand Turkish liras above. "we offer and offer to change its shape. İdris Baluken Secret One for Sakık Property Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current Ministry of Family and Social Policy has passed a draft decree on the Agency and its duties, and the framework of the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws is 49. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. M. Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar İzzet Cetin Musa Pine Aydın Agha Ayadın The signatures of the other motion are: Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Emin Çınar Ahmet Duran Bulut Does the Commission participate in the motions?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0264par0432	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0263par0433	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0265par0434	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0263par0435	I'm reading the reason for a motion: According to the article, contested complaint application costs are generally tripled. It is not acceptable to increase the fee in the appeals, since it is a means of preventing the freedom of right to search financially. Mr. Haydar Akar will speak on the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0266par0441	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have just mentioned a speaker friend of ours, the People's Bank. Not only does our speaker friend mention the People's Bank, but all Turkish and lawmakers have been talking about the People's Bank since 17 December. The whole of Turkey is also curious about the People's Bank. I think you're curious about the Public Bank. The General Manager of the People's Bank, as you all know, today, during the December 17th operation, our friend with $4.5 million in shoe boxes in his house and this bureaucrat -- which has never happened in history -- some businessmen would have money in their homes, but there was no $4.5 million in a bureaucrat's house -- is still the general manager of this People's Bank, who hasn't been fired by your Ministry. Now, when we look at the People's Bank, how is it publicized right now? The People's Bank began to be considered as a money laundering, gold smuggling broker, as of December 17th. That's not the right way to put it, but the Prime Minister did kind of trigger it. It was as if the People's Bank and the People's Bank of Turkey were going to collapse, if we investigated the People's Bank, if we learned the information about the People's Bank correctly, the economy of Turkey would go down in some way, but there was something else, there was the People's Bank truth. In fact, the People's Bank was trading gold with Iran until June 2013. It was removed because of American pressure, turned into food imports and exports, and started giving away documents. This doesn't end; as mentioned by the People's Bank, 2.2 per cent; there's no bankrupt loans below the sector. The public bank's default rate of credits from 2011 to 2012 is 72%, or the risk of bankruptcy. Look, it's a very important number; the increase in follow-up loans is 72%. That's...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0267par0444	Tell the truth Mr. Haydar, tell the truth.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0266par0445	Yes, you will look at the Court's reports, and don't say a word out of them. I'm speaking from the Court's reports. Who's that? With the appointment of this General Manager in 2011, the People's Bank has been transformed into an ally bank. So the People's Bank became the bank of contractors close to the AKP, becoming the funding source for media organs close to AKP. (HPP clapping in rows) And even as we go forward, as we look at the tapes, Solomon says, "Solomon" in 2 million ways. Now, we're talking about $575 million in the previous debate. This company, which started with 250 million cash loans two months after the General Manager was appointed, is actually a shady company, which has 40 million non-profit loans; its credit is evaluated above 3/3/4; 4 is the worst, 1/4; it has an obligation to pay more than $2.8 billion to the market. Despite the fact that the bank's internal elements, internal dynamics, say that this loan is not right, this loan is being given by the Board of Directors. When you look at the mortgages, when you look at the deposits, it's actually shown as collateral, which is a price of $8 million for a $250 million start-up loan. No one gives this loan to anyone, guys. Look, it's not over here, it's being loaned to this company twice again. So, the sum of this loan goes up to $575 million, which, despite the latest risk to the 3.80, will be completed at $575m, with the board's approval of another 95 million. I'll tell you something even more interesting: this company also bought some power distribution companies in tenders, but they were repossessed because they couldn't pay their guarantees. Do you know when he bought it? Look, the loan's being given, and the day after that, the government takes over the power distribution company, which is the day after the loan. You might think that he's going to give you a loan, deposit the guarantees of the power distribution companies, buy this company, pay for it with the money he makes from here. That's not how you do it. What's being done? The government's impounding the power distribution company, and he's still eating a good meal thanks to you. So you're siphoning off government property, people's property. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0268par0451	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "Three thousand Turkish liras, up to five hundred thousand Turkish liras to two million Turkish liras, six thousand Turkish liras, up to five thousand Turkish liras, up to fifteen million Turkish liras, nine thousand Turkish liras, fifteen million Turkish liras, fifteen million Turkish liras, fifteen million Turkish liras, up to five million Turkish Lira, twelve million Turkish Lira, and more than twelve thousand Turkish Lira, an appeal against the amount of twelve thousand Turkish liras. "Turkish Lira, five thousand Lira, five million Turkish Lira, five million Turkish Lira, ten million Turkish Lira, ten million Lira, and ten Turkish Lira, ten million Turkish Lira. We offer and offer to change it into form. Secrets Sakık (Muhs) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0269par0458	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0268par0459	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0270par0460	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0268par0461	Mr. Sırı Sakık will be speaking on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0271par0463	Mr. President, dear friends, we salute you all. It's dishonest to be neutral where there's persecution, to stand and watch. Even at the height of persecution, we did not submit to persecution, but called it right and wrong. When a friend of ours was talking about the Inönul, Malatya said that because his wife was given 10 feet [3 m] [3 m] of cloth, he showed her the virtue of showing her the document. That is indeed a great piety. But I am the son of a people who have been persecuted. My ancestors were persecuted and killed in the 1937s, 1938s, 1925s, and all the way to the mountains of my class. They've been buried in caves, not wrapped in 10 feet of cloth. I wish those who showed virtue for 10 feet [3 m] of cloth had shown piety to the people about their persecution. Actually, I didn't have a request to speak. My pride is hurt, I feel sad and sad, I feel sorry for my country. In the past, those who account for 10 feet of cloth... to ignore it at a time when 70,000, 80,000 people were murdered in my class... where can we fit it, dear friends? So those who show these virtues... those who are responsible for the slaughter of these people should be able to show that virtue. We know how thousands of people were slaughtered. Since he did not answer in Turkish, just because the name was announced and not answered in the royal courts, take him, hang him, it will not help the country. There was also that understanding, dear brothers and sisters, that said. I mean, we've been through this kind of painful process, and we're children of this kind of painful process. When you remember, my honor is hurt, and when you do, the bones of my ancestors turn in the grave. You may be angry with me, you may shout at me, but if I don't translate for them, I can't answer for them, and I can't answer for my ancestors' graves or bones or the price they pay for them. And I say for him, our dear friends, we all suffer. So those who show the virtue of 10 feet of cloth should be able to respond to rejection, denial and assimilation policies in this land. We should know that the people who have been slaughtered are also the people of this country. Returning: "Yes, there has been such a process in this country, and there have been painful years in the process. We're sorry for that... a apology is the only word that will conquer all of our hearts, but no matter what happens, there's no apology. The same apology does not exist for the families of this Roboski. I mean, at this point, we all, we all owe an apology to our people, and we owe them an apology for all the pain that's happened to our country. No one has a chance to bring back the dead; since we don't have a chance to reintegrate the dead, we have to face our past. I don't think we have a chance to build the future without confrontation. I wasn't really gonna take any promises, but when I was listening, yeah, my conscience wouldn't let me. In no time in life have I ever given in to persecution, and I do not bow down. I'm a member of my people's struggle for freedom, from altruistic culture. On that occasion, no matter what the cost of our suffering in every aspect of life... yes, I thank you, that we can't build our future... not to provoke our pain and revenge and revenge when I say these things... but to bury revenge and vengeance in this land... but to forget our past.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0272par0467	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0273par0468	Mr. President, I'd like to correct what Mr. Hatti said about me.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0272par0469	There's been no bullying...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0274par0470	What do you mean, wait a minute?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0272par0471	If you'll excuse me, I'm talking to the congressman who requested it, please. Here, Mr. Agha, are you saying there's been some bullying?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0275par0473	Now...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0276par0474	It's not a tease.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0275par0475	I have an explanation to make, and I have an explanation for bullying.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0277par0476	If you say you don't want to explain... I'll give it to you at your place. If you say there's a challenge... please, let me give you a minute.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0278par0477	Mr. President, didn't you listen?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0277par0478	Mr. Aslanoglu, don't interfere with me. I know what to do.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0279par0479	If you'll excuse me, I'll answer two minutes from the podium.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0277par0480	You're going to make a statement because your personality hasn't been dealt with. Please take your seat, and I'll give you my word for a minute. Why are the third parties interfering? And you, Mr. Mevlüt, and you...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0280par0483	I want a promise, too.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0277par0484	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0281par0488	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, we're talking about -- we're talking about honesty, we're talking about theft, we're talking about the Public Contraction Act. That's what we're talking about here. I wish Mr. Sakek had talked about the biggest corruption in the history of the republic during December 17th instead of responding to that. We can talk about our past, we can discuss them, but that's what we're talking about today, that's what I'm talking about. I explained to him how Ismet Inönul was able to account for a 10-foot cloth. I tried to explain to you today, let alone account for a 10-foot diaper, that the dollars coming out of the boxes, the safes coming out of the houses, they don't account for it. This matter has nothing to do with what Mr. Sakakk had to say. To emphasize honesty again, Ismet Inönu, the Ataturk era, the republic period is always a time for example. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0282par0492	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0283par0493	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0282par0494	Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0283par0495	So what I'm saying is, it's a process of public slaughter.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0282par0496	Okay, got it, it's on the record, yeah.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0283par0497	Now, he said we didn't say anything about December 17th. We always go out and say what we say loud and clear. It's a dark period, not a faceless period, but a period of persecution, which is difficult for us. We're clearly saying, let's go over all the corruption, but we don't care. These coins are in the budget, these coins are scattered around, these money goes to someone else... and if they don't get stolen like this, they'll get stolen in some other way.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0282par0499	In your speech, you mentioned this at the entrance, which is not reflected in our lives. You said that.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0283par0500	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'll tell you this.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0282par0501	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0283par0502	Do you know what would happen to us, if these coins came to the treasure, the F16s would be taken, and the F16s would go away, and Roboski would bomb...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0282par0503	Thank you, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0283par0504	...back to our people in the streets with gas bombs.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0282par0505	Thank you, Mr. Sakik, it's starting to go somewhere else. Mr. Aslanoglu, do you want a word?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0284par0507	I do, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0282par0508	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0284par0509	After the words of Siri Bey, it is not worth saying any more.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0285par0510	It's your problem.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0282par0511	Thank you, all right.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0285par0512	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0282par0513	Sir...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0285par0514	Now I won't say anything after that word by Sýrý Bey. It's an insult. I don't know what... please...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0282par0515	There's nothing wrong with that, please.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0285par0516	What's it like, sir? What's it like?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0286par0517	I didn't answer him, I said to him, "I'm not giving it to him."
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0282par0518	Mr. Sakık said, because of this conversation, I'm giving up my right to speak.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0285par0519	Sir, look, both oratories, I apologize to you. Our thoughts on December 17th are very clear.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0282par0520	You did.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0285par0521	But, now, look, I don't say after that. What does that mean?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0287par0522	Return it, return it!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0285par0523	I mean, you're a lawyer, don't you know that reaction? I didn't...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0288par0524	Do you want me to be very, very honest with you?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0285par0525	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0288par0526	After all this talk of Secret Saklak, I'm not saying anything anymore. The point is...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0285par0527	I don't take it seriously.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0288par0528	No, not at all.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0289par0529	I'm not saying anything. I said nothing.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0288par0530	Because, Mr. Aslanoglu... it means to agree with what you say in a statement of will.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0290par0531	Does he agree with what I'm saying?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0288par0532	And he didn't demand it, so I promised him.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0290par0533	Do you agree with what I'm saying?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0288par0534	Please, Mr. Sakek! [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 49th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 50, which I make to read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the application of the application of the petitions, the complaint and the complaint appeals, be changed in the form of Article 50 of the Law Bill 524 which is currently in session. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Ahmet Duran Bulut Emin Çınar To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey It is considered to be the application date of the 524th Article of the draft law, which is considered to be the date of its application. We propose that it be changed in the form of supply and application. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Secret Sakık Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 50 of the current bill of law. We request that the clause be removed from the text. Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Pine Izzet Cetin Muslim Sarı Does the Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0291par0562	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0288par0563	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0292par0564	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0288par0565	Mr. Haydar Akar is on a motion to speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0293par0568	Mr. President, we're talking about the Public Contraction Act. As each speaker left, our friend tried to express changes to the Public Contraction Act. The Public Contraction Act was carried out by Public Contraction Law 2886 before 2002. Why? It was built within the framework of the European Union's compliance laws and to address the shortcomings. But today, there are 20 amendments to the Public Contraction Law, which we have only discussed in this bag of laws. There are changes not only in 4734, but also in the Public Contracts Act, and there are changes in the 4th Amendment. Now, I wonder why you're making so many changes, I really do. Especially I don't understand that the law is attracted to you. I mean, when a bag of laws comes to this House, there's gotta be a Public Contraction Act in it. When a bill for national education comes into this parliament, when the bill comes in, there's definitely a Public Contraction Act in it. When the laws of other ministries come, there's bound to be a public tender law. In particular, there is a third article in particular, which is the third article of exceptions. Why is the exceptions usually used? A number of exceptions are being made to be abducted from the Public Contraction Association and the Public Contraction Act, to be able to make tenders and to give them to supporters to enjoy them a little bit. We see the largest of these exceptions today (r). What's the "r" clause? Redevans, the coal you've distributed to those poor, the coal you've provided to the thermal power plants, you've provided the means to serve it to your followers with this (r) material. Of course, it's usually the way to correct a crime after it's been committed. And then there's the thing about this third article, the letters in the alphabet aren't enough, and since it's not enough, you've used the letter "k" twice here. Now, again, the Public Contraction Act comes to mind, and the question is, who ordered it, who ordered it, and why did they order it? With these changes, who will be granted privileges, and who will be spared guilt? Because underneath all the changes that have been made so far, this is the truth, this is the truth. This substance... what are you doing, for example, in the previous article? You're increasing the number of complaints. What are you doing raising it? You bring in these proposals, laws, so that people will complain, if there's any irregularities, corruption in the tender, and you can serve the tender. To this day, we are well aware that the Prime Minister's companions, who say, "Don't stop, keep going." I say this. Especially if you hear the wiretaps in the last few days, you'll see how they've been cursed. If the operation on December 25th hadn't been stopped, the second operation, you'd have seen the businessmen cursing at people. You'll find that the businessmen who swear at this nation -- yes, listen, taps, read -- in all public tenders held in Turkey, in the tenders of the port, in the tenders of coal, in the tenders of the coal plant, in the tenders of electricity distribution companies, in the tenders of roads, in the fast train tenders. And every time they get used to it, they pass each other, and they celebrate each other on tape. Look how I did it. But the boss, the brother, wrote you 30. He wrote you 30, 20, 20 for you, and two for you. That makes 100. He says, "Get on with it. " Now, let's take the contracts, brother, and let's keep this minister, and let's keep our jobs. We see that there are those who say that the companions of the road. We see that his companions are paying off their debts to the Prime Minister by buying TV stations, newspapers, with their pay-offs again. If you look into it, you'll see. Now, even on these TV channels since December 17th, we don't see anyone talking about the arm in the picture shown by Tanju, the money counters, the money counters, the pool view villas, and the 100 million people lying in a day from the general manager, the general manager of a public bank, the minister wearing another 700,000 TL watch. No TV, no newspaper, no advocacy newspaper talks about it. All they care about is clearing Bilal boy and the Prime Minister, cleaning him up. However, people say they don't eat them, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0294par0576	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0295par0577	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit06spe0294par0578	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor of the motion... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0294par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 55th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote on the motion of Samuel's MP Haydar Akar and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's enough of a decision, it's not accepted. We will continue negotiations with Bill 524. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is considered to be the application date of the 524th Article of the draft law, which is considered to be the date of its application. We propose that it be changed in the form of supply and application. Secrets Sakık (Muhs) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0296par0013	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0294par0014	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0297par0015	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0294par0016	Are you going to talk about the motion or the motive?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0298par0017	Reason, please.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0294par0018	I'm reading the reason: The amendment was intended to provide meaning integrity in the text of matter and clarify the text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree.. The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the application of the application of the application in Article 50 of Law Bill 524 shall be changed in the form of a complaint and a complaint filed against you. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0299par0027	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0294par0028	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0300par0029	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0294par0030	Am I making you read reason, Mr. Halaçoglu?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0301par0031	Motive...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0294par0032	I'm reading the reason: The application statement in the article is being made clear. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree.. Unacceptable. I submit the 50th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 51: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose the addition of the declaration in the official newspaper, following the declaration of the first clause (c) of Law Article No. 4734 (c) which has been replaced with Article 51 of the Law Bill 524. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Ahmet Duran Bulut Emin Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement shall be changed to 20% of the 524th article of the current legislation. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Secret Sakık Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 51 of the current bill of law. We request that the item be removed from the text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ajan Ayadın Haydar Akar Müslim Sarı Izzet Cetin Musa Pine Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0302par0059	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0294par0060	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0303par0061	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0294par0062	Who's going to talk about the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0304par0063	Mr. Hasan Ören...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0294par0064	Mr. Hasan Ören, MP of Manisa, is on the motion to speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0305par0067	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 51st Amendment. My dear friends, there is nothing more to talk about than the Public Contraction Act. If such changes can be made on a Public Contraction Act, it can only be the bureaucrats' fault if you only edit five times in 2013, in the interest of those who have answered to you, as a result of the calls that have been made to you, it would only be a pressure on bureaucrats to meet their demands to the Justice and Development Party. On two issues, it's clear where Turkey is coming from. The amendments to the Public Contraction Law, the TOKIESTI, and as long as we come in today, the whole thing is exposed in its nudity. My dear friends, now about zoning corruption that has come to İzmir, which has begun in Istanbul... is it possible that if someone does it up there, then they don't understand, and the apprentices don't? If the Prime Minister does it, if the TOKI does it, small municipalities do it. So, the City of Turkut, of Manisa, is a municipality of 150,000 people, and he started it. The higher-ups win, but I don't have the necessary intelligence, and why shouldn't I? He says, "The 27 acres in the best part of Turgutlu are on top of his brother-in-law's mother-in-law, and the money he gets is $600,000." A period of time passes, and the city council changes the zoning plan as a result of disputed meetings. Of course, it's impossible for city council members to know that such a relationship exists. This place is taken for $600,000, its precedents are raised to six floors at three levels, its green areas are cleaned and the ground is given by 39 percent. So it is possible to build 210 dwellings for 100 dwellings. Well, this mother-in-law, lucky mother-in-law, honey mother-in-law, our mother-in-law, who lives on a pension of £1.080, deposits $600,000, and the contractor owns 44 apartments, each of which is 250 to $400,000. So the 70-year-old, the 70-year-old, the resident of Istanbul, with a change of zoning here, the $600,000 would suddenly go up to 14 trillion. So, if you do it upstairs, will the AKP municipalities below be empty? They find ways to invest $600,000 on their mother-in-law and earn 13 or 14 trillion. Now, can you imagine, how many years do you have to be a congressman to make 14 trillion dollars? I've calculated it in my head, you'll have to be a congressman for 110 years. You can't have 14 to 15 trillion dollars if you're a congressman for 110 years. When I asked him, he replied: "My dear, doesn't my brother's mother-in-law have the right to trade? She is 70 years old. Where did he trade like this before? Where did he buy the land that was renovated and do it here? And in the end, of course, when the ship starts to sink, it's a lot of information, my friends. Until yesterday, no one believed the ship was sinking, but now, as the ship began to sink, it started to come back full of information.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0306par0072	If he's mayor of Şişli, he'll be mayor for two years.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0305par0073	If you do that in Urla, don't worry, the mayor of Turgutlu will solve that code, take over $600,000 to his brother's mother-in-law, and make 13 trillion dollars to his mother-in-law. But you're the one who opened this road. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0307par0076	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0308par0077	No, no, you just have to be mayor for a month.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0307par0078	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement shall be changed to 20% of the 524th article of the current legislation. Secrets Sakık (Muhs) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0309par0084	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0307par0085	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0310par0086	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0307par0087	Mr. Sırı Sakık will be speaking on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0311par0089	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all again. Now, there's usually an unfair attack on our group, an unfair criticism. We're not very clear about December 17th, we're not saying anything about it... we're clearly saying, dear friends, we have doubts and concerns about December 17th, we have this process. Yeah, go all the way on corruption, let's go. Yeah, we're not the keepers of this treasure, so the treasure doesn't reflect much on our lives. You three gather together... and I've brought it here a few times, and I've sung it here, so from 2002 to today, you've taken from the treasure a quadrillion dollars, 732 trillion dollars. We didn't take a single lira. And you're telling us: "Come and guard this treasure." Ya, I'm the MP of Mush, the deputy of Turkey's poorest province. At this time, I'm running for mayor from Pain. Again, I'm going to be mayor of one of the poorest cities. Now, if you don't have money coming out of this treasure, if the two poorest provinces from the founding of the Republic have competed with each other so far, then should I come along and not be a bouncer? So we don't do what? If nothing comes from this treasure to our people, and you're sitting at three parties, sharing two quadrillion dollars, come in, fight for it. There's no such thing. You can't go back and say a word to us, you can't accuse a single BDP person of corruption. A single BDP municipality... look, dozens of our friends are inside, and there's no investigation into a single-dollar transaction. We're such a pyromaniacal party, but we say our doubts and our concerns. I mean, what if there's a lot of money in the Treasury? Will it be reflected in the public table, in your pocket? No, I swear to the Kurds -- when I say Kurds, there's an apocalypse, people react -- they're going to get the F-16, they're going to get the bombs, they're going to go again, they're going to launch gas bombs on the street, they're going to throw gas bombs at the opponents, so we're fighting democracy and freedom. When we give these things, let's not see this side. But we see something differently: Why December 17th? Why -- I told you yesterday -- is the same time that the button is pressed in Istanbul at the same time, and at the same time, in Kurdish geography, why are the judges showing the same posture? The Kurds know this well, and the Kurds clearly and clearly say that we don't use gasoline to fuel the process. We don't want chaos in our country, they say. Yeah, let's go all the way to corruption, but if there's internal reckoning here, if there's a presidential account here, if there's a re-designment account here, it's not our job. The AKP will design itself, the people will design the AKP, not our mission. We're looking at life through a different window, and you need to understand... This is the first time we've caught a debate in 90 years, we're going through a negotiation process. We're tired of blood, violence, death, we want to create peace and equal civil law, we want to make peace in this country. Your salt may be dry, but we're in the life market, our children die every day. For ten months, blood, coffins, death or not, it's a huge gain, and we support it, and we're trying to make sure that this process comes to life, and we say that we're not going to side with these games and infightings, but wherever there's corruption, wherever there's lawlessness, we have to go through it. BDP's policies on this matter are very clear and clear. He says it's unfair to accuse BDP, and I pay respects.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0312par0093	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose the addition of the declaration in the official newspaper, following the declaration of the first clause (c) of Law Article No. 4734 (c) which has been replaced with Article 51 of the Law Bill 524. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0313par0099	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0312par0100	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0314par0101	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0312par0102	Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı will speak on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0315par0105	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The 51st article of the bill makes a very important provision for the introduction of tenders only for domestics and for those willing to offer domestic property. The opinion of institutions and institutions concerned by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology is mandatory to provide price advantages by up to 15 per cent in favour of those willing to offer domestic property in the tenders of goods on the list between medium and high-tech industrial products and which will be announced by the Public Contraction Agency each year in January. Although late, we believe that this arrangement will contribute substantially to our industry and our SMEs, and we support it as the National Movement Party. Turkey's industry has faced the destruction of cheap interim goods from abroad, as a result of hot money and import policies followed during the AKP period, and its sectoral priorities have been increasingly reduced to a structure based on montage, dependent on imports. Turkey, industrialization aside, is becoming increasingly unindustrial. The study of the Istanbul Industrial Chamber, based on the data from 249 of our major industrial enterprises in 2001-2010, has made it clear that our industry has become a montage weight, and the added value has decreased relatively. Of the 15 countries in the world known as the world industrial super league, Turkey was in the 13th place in 1990, 15th place in 2000, and was sadly off the list in 2010. In fact, this painting is a concrete indicator of failure in industrial policy. Our country will be able to make a successful development move with the development of the industrial sector. Developments in the industrial sector will affect the country's economy in areas such as jobs, revenues, increase in exports, foreign trade deficits and current deficits, but our hopes for the next five years have been dimmed. During the ninth Development Plan, production industry production growth was averaged 3.7 per cent per year under the plan target. The increase in COBI was 2.4 per cent by staying even lower. In large businesses, it is 4.3 per cent. This is a sign that the COBIs are unable to bring the efficiency increase to the desired level. In 2007-2012, the share of the SMEs was also reduced in employment and added value. The rate was 3.5 percent. The dependency of our industry and exports on imports has risen to worrying levels. It's not possible to explain it only with energy imports. As part of the internal processing regime, exports and imports related to it increased by 58.5% in 2011 to 62.1 per cent in 2012. In other words, it's an import of $62 for $100 exports. When the Turkish economy is assessed as an economic body of activity, it is noted that slowing down across the economy is evident in the manufacturing industry. It's a growth based on services rather than production. The value of industry is diminishing. There have been some serious economic difficulties lately. Our national industry, our manufacturer, is in trouble. Our entrepreneurs, our industry, new investments aside, have become unsustainable, competitiveness is at an end. Many industrialists, businessmen and tradesmen have fallen into debt. There's no collection in the market, there's more executions, there's more bankruptcy. In order to bring the Turkish economy on the straight path, we need new plans and programmes focused on production, employment and exports, which will bring the country out of the gutter of money, interest and debt, which will save our country from becoming an import paradise. Unfortunately, however, the AKP government does not have the strength or determination to plan or implement such a plan. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0316par0117	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 51st article is accepted. There are three motions in Article 52: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 52 of the 524 legislature of the law, which is in question, the terms of the law shall be taken. We propose and propose that the statement be changed in the form of the terms of the vision and evaluation. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Secret Sakık Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Fifty-two of the current bill of law. We request that the item be removed from the text. Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Izzet Cetin Musa Pine The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Oktay Vural Muharrem Varlı Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Çınar Ahmet Duran Bulut Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0317par0142	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0316par0143	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0318par0144	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0316par0145	Mr. Hasan Ören will talk about a motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0319par0148	Dear lawmakers, the Public Contraction Act is complete, the stability you've been saying for 11 years has been lost in your TOKI order, with zoning changes in the runts in municipalities, mother-in-laws. In fact, what you said was just a sense of perception. Really, when you look at 11 years, it's just numbers that don't exist. For example, it's useful to look at it this way: in 2002, when you came to power, the citizens' debt to banks is 47 billion, which is 47 quadrillion dollars, which is old money, is going to be 47 quadrillion dollars, which is going to be one trillion, which is going to be an urbanion by the end of 2013, and you've even gotten people used to it. The credit card loans are $5.4 billion, which you now leave in 2002, $81 billion. The executive credit card debter was 48 grand in this country in 2002, thanks to you, up to 2 million in what you call an economic model. Our farmers, the ones you brag about so much, we gave you tractors, loans. The farmers you call them owe you 5 billion in 2002, but today, at the end of 2013, 39 billion. The number of farmers in debt was 1.6 million people in 76 million at the time of your abuse, so 1.5 million people owed. Now, the number that you're bringing in right now is up to 13 million people in debt. Unpaid checks: 733,000 unpaid checks in 2002, up to 2 million in your top economic success! I don't know if I need to tell you the number of files in the executions, but if the economic conditions were improving when you received 8 million people in Turkey at the gates of execution, you definitely had to have dropped that number, more or less tripled. 21 million people are working on executive files, 21 million files. My dear friends, the sea has run out, the land has appeared, that's the point of this painting. If it hadn't been for December 17th, it would have been February 21st, but it would have been November 30th, because you've made people so in debt that it was impossible for the public to recover. What do you have to do? It's easy to do. Dollar goes up, euro doesn't listen to anybody, but he, you know, the money in your kids' safes, the dollars, the money coming out of the public bank manager's boxes, it's time to put those dollars on the market. If you want to lower the temperature of the dollar, if you want to keep the euros from rising, then release what's in those 7 cash boxes, the dollars in the shoe boxes, the euros in the market now. This is the last train, catch the last car. You have sunk this country, you have destroyed the tradesman, the artist, and the SME in this country, and all the data shows it. Don't mind what the Prime Minister says, the Prime Minister is busy saving himself. If something happens to him tomorrow, if the trial returns from Bilal to the Prime Minister, believe me, none of you will have it. My dear friends, the private sector's external debt is $236 billion, which is 80 quadrillion in 15 days. Whatever you say, be angry with all you want. If you can learn from what TÜSIAAD had said, or from what the tradesman and artist said, what the Republican People's Party said, or from what the DP said, then this country may be able to enter a new economic line, a straight line. If you don't listen to the opposition, this sinking will continue. You have no right to sink Turkey. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0320par0157	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Are we going to make him read the reason, Mr. Halaçoglu?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0321par0160	Motive...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0320par0161	I'm reading the reason for the other motion: A separate legal arrangement for the procedures and foundations for these purchases would be more appropriate, rather than exceptions to the Public Contraction Act for industrial integration/off-set practices, which are important to our country's economy and industry, which includes innovation, localisation and technology transfer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 52 of the 524 legislature of the law, which is in question, the terms of the law shall be taken. We propose and propose that the statement be changed in the form of the terms of the vision and evaluation. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0322par0170	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0320par0171	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0323par0172	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0320par0173	We're reading the motive: It is intended to provide meaning integrity in the material text and clarify the text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 52nd article is accepted. There are three motions in Article 53: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "the tender for the common needs of more than one administration" in Article 53 of the current law bill 524 is to be changed into "an open tender for public control for the common needs of more than one administration." İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Secret Sakık Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 53 of Law Bill 524 be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Muharrem Varlı Erkan Akçay Ahmet Duran Bulut Emin Çınar The signatures of the other motion are: Haydar Akar Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Müslim Sarı Aydın Agha Ayadın Musa Pine Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0324par0201	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0320par0202	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0325par0203	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0320par0204	On the motions...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0326par0205	Motive...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0320par0206	I'm reading separate reasons for the motions: Frame 53 of the bill. Article 4734 added to Law 7. The agreement is made on the purchases of goods and services to meet the common needs of more than one administration, and the tender for maintenance and repair services will be made by a protocol between administrations and the administration specified. The Law No. 4734 is entitled "Private Principles." In the matter, administrations have been obliged to ensure transparency in tenders, competition, equal treatment, trust, secrecy, public control, the proper conditions and timely use of resources. Doing the common needs of multiple administrations under the same tender will lead to an increase in the prices of the tenders above all, which will prevent competition from entering small and medium-scale companies, and will act as an incentive to monopolize the commitment sector. On the other hand, general budgetary administrations under Law 4734 will operate under the State's corporate personality, while private budgetary administrations will be able to meet the needs of governments with different corporate personalities with a single tender, leading to legal problems. Resolving needs is not a mere process of tendering. Examination and admission commissions in the purchases of goods and services must be established and delivered on time in accordance with the qualifications and conditions of goods and services, while maintenance and repair services must be committed by the control and supervision of the control agency from technical staff to pay. The tender corruption and irregularities are removed from the public budget by at least 100 per cent during the delivery of more goods and services than are known, as well as during the production process, and even during the financing of illegal financial interests provided in the tender process. While examination and admission procedures and control procedures are of such vital importance in terms of corruption and irregularities, it is not acceptable for more than one administration to include no regulation in the matter of how to control and pay for care and maintenance through examinations and admissions of the purchases of goods and services as part of a tender. The only reason for this could be the goal of making the process of joint tenders the source of corruption and irregularities. The arrangement is not associated with public benefit; rather, the tender has a function of promoting corruption and irregularities and laundering corruption through the chaos caused by multiple tenders. It is considered that the matter must be removed from the draft text. I'm reading the reason for the other motion: The combination of contracts without a limit and a limit on the number of jobs and maintenance services to meet the common needs of multiple administrations can be misused. I submit to your votes the motions I have given to you: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "the tender for the common needs of more than one administration" in Article 53 of the current law bill 524 is to be changed into "an open tender for public control for the common needs of more than one administration." İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0327par0226	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0320par0227	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0328par0228	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0320par0229	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to open the tenders for the common needs of more than one administration mentioned in the matter to the public's control. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the 53rd article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 54: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 524th Article of the proposed law shall be carried out. We offer and propose that its statement be changed in the form of the extension. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Secret Sakık Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 54th of the current bill of law. We request that the item be removed from the text. Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Pine Izzet Cetin Ali Sarıbaş The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Ahmet Duran Bulut Emin Çınar Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0329par0256	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0320par0257	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0330par0258	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0320par0259	On one of the motions, Mr. Ali Sarıbask, the member of Çanakkale, will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0331par0262	Mr. President, the most valuable MPs, yes, I've had two and a half years. Most of all, I spoke in the middle of the night on this bench, and most of all, I spoke in the bag of laws, and most of all, I spoke in zoning and bidding laws. Again, in a bag like this, in a law like this, in the middle of the night -- again, when we ask where the AKP has been stable since 2002, where it calls stability, but where is stability, it has a stability in changing the tender law. Look, before 2002, we've managed for many years -- my mayor -- with the tender law 2886, but do you believe that with that law, with the tender law that's been on the agenda for so many years, from 2002 until now, the theft, bad luck, and the tender that was on the agenda did not really happen. But now I see that we did not like the European Union's law of harmony with the AKP's coming to power before 2002! What was the first job? We promised in the elections, we'll make the roads, but the tender takes too long. We know about engineering projects, we know about the technology in the contracts of the State Railways, we know about engineering, but these contracts are going through a lot, we're going to do it fast, we're going to do it fast. You really did it fast. How did you end it? I've always been supported by my ally, so take the contract for 5 kilometers.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0332par0263	Did you get on the roller coaster?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0331par0264	Then I'll tell you about the roller coaster...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0332par0265	You get on the fast train, you get on the fast train!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0331par0266	I'm telling you about the roller coaster. We know him well under engineering knowledge, we do the bidding very quickly." You said, you still haven't been able to account for the people who died there, the people who were there. My dear friends...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0332par0268	You're on the fast train!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0331par0269	You get in safe, I'm not getting in. My dear friends, I maintain stability in the results of this AKP government, which demonstrates the stability of the 175th amendment of the Law of Contraction. Do you know how stability works? First of all, lack of stability in control; then, how to give it to my ally by constantly changing the tender. Guys, look, with this stability, we really did it, where did we go? We have reached the 17th of the 12th month. For I will try to give an example of all the tenders of the spoken, spoken, and even made. In the old days, when such a tender was made, any public employee would go to prison. While a project tender should be tendered in the law, the construction project is being held separately, the architecture project is being divided into all sorts of projects in the sense that it wants. But what does the bride say in the tender? It says, "You must tender in a whole. " Again, the Contraction Act says... that today you have made a habit of using something that will be used in emergency, disaster, when we're in too much trouble. What's the habit? Sir, we're stuck, we can't wait three and a half months, we're doing fast, we're going to finish things. What do we do? We're finishing the job. Where's the job finish? We can see it's all over the rooms. It's over. Now, when the tender has been played too much and you really put the tender too high, it's how the AKP was successful when you put the zoning laws on the front page. Look, tonight, with this law, you're bringing an arrangement to one public, all of them, in the Law of Dealing, for a collective deal in the tenders, along with the sale of 1 square meter of land under Recep Tayyip Erdogan's authority. Where's the head here? Upstairs. We won't have to deal with you down there anymore, so if you make a phone call to someone, the master, you'll be given the address of that tender. In that sense, I'll see in a year before I'm through with this MP, if you stay in the local elections, which you won't, hopefully this will be the last amendment to the law. I know on this occasion that the most important reason for the tender corruption and the corruption of the public is the tender, and there has never been such a government in Turkey and in the world that plays with the Law of Dealing.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0333par0274	Thank you. I'm running the alibi on the other motion. Frequent changes in the Public Contraction Act eliminate the basic principles of public tenders: transparency, competition, equal treatment, trust, public control and efficient use of resources. I submit the motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 54 of the existing 524 rows of the bill, it is carried out. We propose and propose that the statement be changed in the form of the following. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0334par0284	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0333par0285	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0335par0286	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0333par0287	I'm reading the reason: The amendment was intended to provide meaning integrity in the text of matter and clarify the text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 54 is accepted. There are three motions in Article 55: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "may be appointed as president" in Article 55 of the current law bill 524 may be changed into "as well as the consent of the staff to be appointed as president." İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Secret Sakık Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 55 of the current Law Bill 524 be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Muharrem Varlı Emin Çınar Ahmet Duran Bulut The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Müslim Sarı Aydın Agha Ayadın Musa Pine Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0336par0315	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0333par0316	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0337par0317	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0338par0318	Dear Ali Serindağ.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0333par0319	Mr. Ali Serindağ, Gaziantep MP, will discuss the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0339par0322	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, lawmakers, I'm going to announce the opinion of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the motion issued on the 524th Article in the framework of the Bill of Law. I salute you all. Now, we call it the yellow one, but there are 8-10 offers. 8-10 bids, sir, combined with the bill, the bag has been made into a law, and the basic law has come to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's no law-enforcement technique, there's no such thing. In law schools -- we have legal friends here -- we've never been taught anything like this, but the technique to make such a law in your power has been brought to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and that's the general rule. History will record it, remember that. There are no basic laws, no bags, no laws. This isn't a bag. What's this? Harar, harar. Do you know Harar? A bag of hay, big; that's what it looks like. It's a shame, it can't happen. This doesn't suit the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, what does this bill involve? What else is there to do with this? He's involved in a lot of areas, as far as he's concerned. For him, Turkey needs to be discussed in different fellowship commissions in the Grand National Assembly, not discussed. So, what's done? The Civil Code is being violated. There's also a regulation on the procedures and basis of drafting legislation in your era. And that code is not in order. So, what are you going to fit in with? You do not obey the Constitution, you do not obey the laws, you do not observe the regulations; what will you obey? Dear friends, the 55th article on which I have been promised is that the duties from public employees to public tender specialists will be terminated by the presidential office without any condition of any time. That can't happen. So experts who prepare reports that the president or the Ministry doesn't like will immediately be removed from their duties, or, rather, transferred to their other duties. There's no law like that without collateral. The AKP government seems to have a problem with the Public Contraction Law. My friends who spoke before me voiced that more than 30 things had been changed, and if these items were accepted, some 175 would have been changed. However, this law was drafted in consideration of the acquisitor of the European Union before you came to the government. You're making a change in 175 articles, and now, you know, the Law on Election Law and Political Parties comes to Turkey's agenda from time to time because the law doesn't change, and Mr. Prime Minister says, "Did we make these laws so that we could change it?" E, you didn't make this one, why are you changing it? So you're changing what's best for you, not what's best for you. Because the amendments to the legislation are determined not by a social need, but by the needs of you and your party, my dear friends, just like you did with the HSYK. What happened? If it weren't for December 17th, you wouldn't have brought the HSYK arrangement on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, you wouldn't have mentioned a structure called a parallel state if it weren't for December 17th, you wouldn't have mentioned a gangbanging within the state and some institutions of the state. So, how did this December 17th, all of a sudden, these gangs show up on December 17th? And if you were unaware of this, then by chance you are running the country, and you are not aware of it, and you have not committed any action according to it, then you have committed a crime, and after December 17th, the Prime Minister has already said, "What did you want, and we did not give it to you?" Now we ask you, dear friends in the presence of the people, what is it that we should ask the government, and what did they want from you, and what did you give? It's our right to know, it's the people's right. What did they want, what did you give them? Didn't you send the Deputy Prime Minister to Pennsylvania to ask him if he had any orders? So, what happened?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0340par0329	You sent the president, the president.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0339par0330	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0341par0332	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. On the other motion...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0342par0334	Wait a minute, wait a minute, Mr. President, wait a minute... What do you mean, general president? Would that explain it, sir? We've sent our president...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0341par0336	Mr. Aslanoglu, please, I beg you...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0343par0337	Didn't he go to America?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0342par0338	What do you mean, send our president?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0341par0339	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0344par0340	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0342par0341	Will you tell me?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0341par0342	Wait a minute... I'm listening to the Deputy Director of the Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0345par0344	Sir, a general president has spoken. Honestly, I couldn't hear. If he explains what he's saying, Mr. Speaker, let's get the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0346par0345	Where did Mr. President go in America? Where did your president go in America?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0341par0346	It's probably not on the record, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0345par0347	There's a taunt, sir, there's a taunt.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0341par0348	What is the nature of teasing?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0345par0349	Look, you sent your general president to America. He said something like that.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0341par0350	But there's no bullying, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0347par0351	What do you mean?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0345par0352	What do you mean, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0341par0353	Can't your president go to America, Mr. Hamzacebi?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0345par0354	What does this have to do with the president of the Republican People's Party going to America?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0341par0355	So it's perfectly normal. Your president can go to America and other presidents can go to America.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0348par0356	Is that up to him?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0349par0357	Mr. President, the speaker also said you're leaving.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0350par0358	Sir, the president... where did you say he went?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0351par0359	Pennsylvania.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0350par0360	He went to Pennsylvania. He says.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0352par0361	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0353par0362	Wait, let me get this straight. What did you say, Congressman?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0354par0364	I wanted Mr. Kilicdaroglu to explain to you who he was meeting with in the U.S., or with some of the organizations there, and that's it.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0353par0365	Then explain yourself.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0355par0366	Mr. President, please, I beg you...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0354par0367	Why are you pretending not to understand?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0353par0368	Okay, you told me. I'm going to listen to Mr. Deputy Director of the Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0356par0370	Mr. Speaker has made an assessment that our president is going to Pennsylvania.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0353par0371	Is that what you mean, Congressman?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0357par0372	I say it loud and clear, but he doesn't want to understand, guys. I just want them to tell us about the NGOs they interviewed in the U.S., that's all.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0353par0373	Let them tell you. Okay, I'm giving it to you because of the bullying, but please don't cause any more bullying, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0358par0377	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we didn't send our deputy prime minister to the United States like you to Pennsylvania and ask if Lord Hoca had an order?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0359par0378	Is Saricul gone?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0358par0379	After the referendums, we didn't thank Pennsylvania when we spoke on the balcony, like you. Of course you can do these things, you can do these things, if you can stand behind them today. But what you've come up with today is, do you go to Pennsylvania for a period of time and ask for his name? You say, you stand together in prayer, you go prostrate, you share mosques.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0360par0380	We do that all the time.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0358par0381	...that you don't doubt their religion, that you refer to as the Reverend, today you accuse them of false prophecy with a return. When did you start blaming me? When your ministers' allegations of corruption and bribery came out, you turned around and started accusing them of false prophecy. You've got the forgery, you've got the real forgery, you've got the nerve, you've got the hypocrisy.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0361par0382	Oh, boy, oh, boy!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0358par0383	A little...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0362par0385	Oh, shame, shame, shame! What kind of language is that? Mr. President, have him correct his speech.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0363par0386	Mr. Speaker, would you please use a clean tone?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0358par0387	Don't be disrespectful.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0363par0388	Mr. Speaker...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0358par0389	If it weren't for the investigation into your ministers with the December 17th operation...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0363par0391	Mr. Orator, please, correct your language.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0358par0392	If it weren't for those investigations, you wouldn't have accused anyone of false prophecy. You weren't going to blame anyone, that sweet tie would continue, the power sharing would continue.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0364par0394	Look at you, look at you!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0358par0395	When you became the target of corruption, when the prison gates appeared to you, you began to fear, and then you came to your senses.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0364par0396	You're the president of the group, behave!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0358par0397	This hypocrisy has never existed in any government period throughout the history of the Republic of Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0365par0400	You're the hypocrite!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0366par0401	Mr. President accused me of hypocrisy.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0367par0403	Mr. Aydın, come in. I didn't listen to you. What do you want?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0366par0404	He accused me of hypocrisy.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0367par0405	You want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0366par0406	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0367par0407	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0366par0409	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, at this time of night, there's never been a right conversation. Mr. President, this has never been the right speech.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0368par0411	Who? Mr. Aydın, please give your friend a warning first.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0366par0412	There was no conversation. There's a lot of talk going on in there, and we don't answer without picking on them. Every word...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0368par0413	What was said today?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0366par0414	Too much talk, too much talk.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0369par0415	Name one.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0366par0416	When the previous speaker spoke from this platform, you received instructions from many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, You went here, you went there. He said himself, the previous speaker, but we didn't even answer him. Look, let me tell you, friends, dear friends, one is his own mirror, one is his own mirror.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0370par0418	You were saying, what did you want? Isn't it the Prime Minister who said, "What did you want?"
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0366par0419	A man cannot accuse a group of hypocrisy without its right.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0371par0420	No, I didn't blame your group.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0366par0421	He can't, he can't. Mr. Akif Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0372par0422	Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0371par0423	I didn't accuse your group of hypocrisy.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0372par0424	Mr. Hamzacebi, we're listening, please...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0373par0425	Mr. Hamzacebi, I really listen to you all the time, but I assure you, I don't appreciate this conversation.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0374par0426	Muharrem attitude, Muharrem!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0373par0427	Every time we say, "If there's corruption, if there's a claim, let's go all the way." Whoever it is, we're ready to go through with it, let's all go together.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0375par0429	There is, there is, there is corruption!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0376par0430	How can you go all the way, you're changing prosecutors, changing judges! And you're not sincere when they say you are!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0377par0431	Respect, please, Congressmans... let's be respectful to the speaker.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0378par0432	But I think it's very unfair to accuse an entire group, a whole community, by violating the principles of the investigation, of all innocentness, without knowing what it is. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0379par0435	You've appointed prosecutors, what else are you going to do?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0380par0436	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0381par0437	Mr. President, in my speech, I did not accuse the Justice and Development Party Group of hypocrisy, but the Justice and Development Party Group.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0382par0438	Then fix it!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0381par0439	The people I accuse of hypocrisy are the ones in the government who reveal these actions, who say these words, and I praise the group. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0383par0441	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0384par0442	Sir, there is no such thing in our government, and we ask the government to apologize.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0383par0443	It's on the record. [[Continue]] Is there a speaker on the other motion, Mr. Halaçoglu?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0385par0450	No, sir, let the motive be read.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0383par0451	I'm reading the reason: It would be more appropriate for a public tender expert to be brought up from the core by hiring personnel instead of assigning them. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 55 of the current law bill, 524, we propose and propose that the statement in the presidential capacity be replaced by the consent of the staff who will be appointed as presidents. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0386par0460	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0383par0461	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0387par0462	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit07spe0383par0463	I'm reading the reason: The workers who would be assigned to the change were also intended to have the right to be appointed. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 55th article is accepted. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0383par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 55th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 524. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now we begin the third section interviews. The third chapter covers Articles 56 to 83. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Musa Çam will speak on the third chapter. Here you go, Mr. Pine. [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0388par0011	Mr. President, honored members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, distinguished parliamentarians, I salute you with love and respect. On the third part of Law 524, I find that I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party. I salute you all once again. This basic law, consisting of a total of 125 articles, including the executive and executive clause, consists of a total of 27 articles, including Article 56 (56) and Article 83. Four of these items are of interest to the Social Security Agency, 5502. Social Insurance General Health Insurance Act, Article 5510, 1. Article 5431, Article 1 of the Civil Aviation Act; Article 4925, Article 2; Articles of the Employment Law, 4857, 3; Article 4760, 1; and Law of the Infirmities - 5378. As you can see, there are 27 clauses in the third section of this entire 27-point law that apply to different laws, my friends. Now, we, basically, have been in general elections about thirty-one months, for 31 months, faced countless bags of law in Parliament. While meeting with the Minister at the Plan and Budget Commission, we had to discuss dozens of articles that did not concern the Minister's Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and the Minister had to get information from the relevant bureaucrats. Is it the ill-fated fate of this House, that it is obliged to work unproductively until the middle of the night, with the constant bag of laws and constant fundamental laws? It's not. But the ruling AKP, in its twelve-year period of power, has unfortunately forced Parliament to take such a bad working pace. But we believe that sooner or later, all living things will fall into opposition, and you will know what we mean on the day when you fall into opposition. Today, the opposition lawmakers will come to this stand and oppose the ruling party's practices as much as they want, and you say, "No." You say, "We do not agree." But one day you will sit in those lines of opposition, and then you will know what opposition means here. I've said here that about 14 articles are the concern of the disabled. I'd like to say a few words about disabled people. Dear friends, as you know, in 2005, it was legalized, and in eight years, all public transportation was being reorganized according to the disabled. However, in July 2013, an eight-year deadline was extended, and since vans and municipal buses were not accessible to the disabled, a public transport period was given until July 2015, which is now postponed until July 7, 2018. The AKP government rejected the parliamentary commission to investigate the disabled issues the Republican People's Party Group has given the Grand National Assembly at the beginning of the 24th term of this period. But while the government rejected the commission to investigate its disabled problems, it chose to set up a commission to investigate the health damage of the Internet. The goal was to listen here and prevent citizens from accessing the Internet. Here, this bag is the same material that will be discussed next week in the law, my friends. Dear lawmakers, all these persecutions will not be enough that in July 2012 you would like to enforce the bill that violates the commitment of accessibility and now condemns disabled individuals to their homes by 2018, ignoring all basic values such as conscience, social morality, political etiquette. The unreachable accessibility in the next four years doesn't seem possible, because accessibility is not a visible ramp, but it means drawing up plans to share this life with the disabled, with the elderly, with the pregnant women, with the children, and not ruining it for any runt. By stressing that this is a matter of mentality, we should consider sharing the street, remembering the existence of the disabled in society... so that a street life can be used for everyone. I said it's a question of mentality. I'd like to remind you once again what the former Minister of Health and AKP Tekirdağ MP said. Minister Akdağ gave a speech to a blind citizen who hurt him almost, breaking his heart, saying, "You're making money when you can't see it, can't you?" Again, AKP Tekirdağ MP, for these disabled people in Tekirdağ, they couldn't go out, they were hiding in their homes. Their parents were tired of taking these people out on the street, and they were embarrassed, but with the law that our government passed in 2005, we put the disabled in human form, we put the disabled in man's place, and some of them started to go out on the street. Are those words for the disabled? Now, Mr. Secretary, you delay these until 2018 and condemn the disabled in their homes until 2018. Dear lawmakers are the constitution of a political party, the charter and programme of that party. I'd like to read you two paragraphs from the AKP program. The definition of censorship and similar concepts will be determined without suspicion and entirely by civilian initiative, and the measures will be taken out of political will, you say. You say: a paragraph from your schedule. Well, is it? So, as in AKP rule, the obstacles to freedom of expression will not be protected, the newspaper will not be tolerated, the executive body in the government's bill of law will not be the only decisive to determine state secrets, the way of the judiciary against documents accepted by the state secret will not be limited, and projects such as keeping documents within the scope of this scope a secret forever will not be produced. Like this? Of course not, even though it's on your schedule. Again, in one paragraph in your program, a comprehensive programme for fighting corruption will be prepared and put into action immediately. Reconstruction of transparency and tender legislation in public administration will be discussed within the framework of this programme. So, as in the AKP's government, those who have been investigated as well as the Deputy Prime Minister in the case of the Lighthouse will not be held public office, the prosecutors who continue the investigation will not be put to trial, this case, which has been condemned in Germany, will not be subject to legitimate questions in public, leaving Turkey, the source country for years. There will be no doubt about public tenders by changing the public contract by changing the provisions that have been compressed into the public contract dozens of times. Like this? Of course it's the opposite, guys. Mr. Kören, who spoke before me, has made the changes and corruption of the Public Contraction Act clear and clear, all of it. That's what your schedule says, but you leave your programs on dusty shelves, you cheat on society, and now you fire the prosecutors, the security forces who expose corruption against them every day, friends. Is that justice or this? Is this transparency, my friends, in your contract law, in your program? You're doing all kinds of tricks and tricks to get Turkey's resources into some people's pockets by making a cover over corruption. We believe that sooner or later, a power will come to answer for it, and you will answer for it, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0389par0025	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0390par0030	Mr. President, I've been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the third chapter. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, during our meeting today, some speakers have often expressed some opinions about the situation with the General Manager of the People's Bank, and I'd like to continue speaking with a reminder of it. As you know, there was $4.5 million in shoe boxes at the home of the President-General of the People's Bank, who is currently under arrest. Does anyone object to that, or can they say no. Can't be said. And what did the Prime Minister say about this General Manager? He was the victim of his purity. Imam was going to make a call, he was going to do a college. Dear friends, this is a confession. It's a very important confession, and I'm afraid it's not being settled enough. Confess to what? It is a confession that Turkey is under unregistered management, a confession that Turkey is not governed by its institutions and its rules. We don't believe in charity, aid, and we don't, but let's say we agree, e, charity, aid, which means it's undocumented, unregistered. There's no telling what it's about, no telling who it's from, no telling what it's about. So a Public Bank or a bank manager's own private money should be in that bank's private vault, which is normal. Now, I draw your attention to this confession. ▪ There is no corruption. It is not called. These operations were done by foreign forces and gangs, here they are, sir, by Hashishis. If you go back nine hundred and fifty years and say "Hashishis," then you will automatically become the Cavlaki. Let alone the Hashishis from nine fifty years ago, let alone the Cavlaki, come to 17, we need to talk about this, you can't escape in nine hundred and fifty years. There's a gang, yes, there's a gang, dear friends, but it's not the prosecutor and the police who investigate it; it's the gang that's involved in corruption; it's the gang that's trying to stop people from investigating corruption; it's the gang, and unfortunately the Republic of Turkey is run by ganged and unregistered administration. Sir, isn't Erdogan Bayraktar the minister of this government? He was sitting around this time, sitting in your desks. He resigned from both the Ministry and the congressional and his party. Whatever we did, we did by order of the Prime Minister, and I resign, and he resigns. Have you no words to say to them, dear friends? Why are you making enemies of the HSYK you defended yesterday? On December 10, 2013, Mr. Prime Minister's budget speech from this bench, page 142, can't put it on the ground, praising HSYK. We remind you of that again. 1. Prosecutors and judges who have changed members of his office to do corruption operations -- the number of people who have found 116. So far -- are being deported, and you want to change the HSYK to cover up bribes and corruption by interfering with the judges and prosecutors you want. AKP ruling was caught red-handed in corruption and bribery operations on December 17th, December 25th, January 7th and January 21st, which is a crime-free state. There's no more meaning to words than nonsense, dear friends. If there is, you're going to frame him, you're going to do it. Just by exile, sir, you can't set up this conspiracy by propaganda on 20 TVs a day. Even if this conspiracy is true, what will you do with these corruptions? Are you going to ignore corruption? That's the way it is, dear friends. This bill consists of 43 different laws and laws, 126 amendments to the decree. As far as the bill is concerned, there are a number of clauses in the residency commissions that need to be discussed separately. The regulations entering the task and expertise of other commissions are not discussed in the relevant commissions, and the Civil Code is violated. I'd like to make a suggestion to our House, as a friend of yours. Let's make a change in the Civil Code and discuss it, set up a bag of law commissions. In the Plan and Budget Commission, on the way, there's another bag of laws coming in next week, and unfortunately, it's become a typical example of a bad administration. The quality of living is failing. Well, even in what we see as positive, there's a management, organizational disorder, a lack of planning, a lack of programming. Turkey is badly ruled, dear friends. These bags are also the result of poor management, unscheduled, unscheduled management. On several occasions, I have said in the commissions, Mr. Prime Minister recommends that in his various speeches in society, sir, there should be a population policy, a demographic policy, as well as valuable friends, a state, a government, whatever economic policy, if there is a defence policy, an industrialisation policy. With 50 years, a hundred years of perspectives, these policies must have happened. Advanced, modern countries have serious problems, especially because of the old population surplus, to have a young population, and the birth takes encouraging measures to promote the young population. Alone, dear friends, we do not know that this policy is made not by three children, but by a perspective that may be five children, maybe four children, maybe two children... China implements one child's policy, maybe four for the 50-year perspective of the Republic of Turkey, we don't know because unfortunately it hasn't been done. Well, where will we see it, dear friends, if it's government and state policy? We're looking at five years of development plans, see the three children's policy? No, that's not part of the development plan. Is there a midterm program? No. Is he in the government program? Open up, it's not in government programs, it's a perspective on population policy, it's a presentation. Is it in the strategic plans of the relevant ministries? No. Is it in the budget laws? No. Where do you have it? Where are your dear friends? It's between the Prime Minister's lips. That's what we call dictatorship or pleasure management, you have to bring it a state and a government policy. This will happen, and we, as opposition, of course, can easily support these policies by considering the future perspective of the Republic of Turkey. Precious lawmakers, in Article 56, citizens with a 90 per cent disability rate and more than 90 per cent of disability are forced to use wheelchairs or gurneys for disabled people who are obliged to use high- ceilinged cars, an OTV discount for cars, and this substance is in its essence positive, but 90 per cent disability rate is very high, and it would be appropriate to reduce it to 75 per cent. There are already serious problems in determining those disability rates. In addition, it is also appropriate for those who are considered to have a disability and duty account to be given a vehicle that is less than 1,600 cc/s and will be available for five years without the ETV or VAT/free. The insurance premiums of employers who work voluntarily with disabled employees are envisioned to be covered from the treasury instead of 50 per cent of the employer's share. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And while the arrangement for the employment of these disabled is positive, I would like to extend my regards to all of you to continue our views on these other issues.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0391par0047	Thank you. In the name of the individuals, Mr. Nurettin Demir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0392par0052	At this hour of the night, I salute you with love, and I bid you good night. Honored MPs, we are now on 31 January. In 1990, a very valuable legal man, Professor Dr. Muammar Aksoy, was killed in an armed assault. In the 24th year of his death, which was a quarter of a century ago, I honor and cherish the great man of law. May he rest in peace and rest in peace. Sir, who was Muammar Aksoy? In fact, modern Turkey is a valuable academic who has made a great effort to print the fight against the democratic, secular and social state in particular in Article 2 of the Constitution. If Muammar Aksoy had been killed, the triggerers had been removed, and had been removed, there would not have been any unsolved killings today that had not yet been uncovered by many patriots such as the Mumsters, the Trioks, the Emecs, the Barracks, Dink. But for the past 12 years, we see that the ruling AKP alone has not taken a step towards it. But especially since Muammar Hoxha is a democratic, secular, and social state of Turkey and has fought for the Second Amendment by the Constitution, the Republic of Turkey will be remembered for the rest of our lives. Today, we are pleased to see that Tunisia has accepted the Constitution for 90 percent of the time, and that the Constitution has gained its specific secular and democratic features... and we sincerely celebrate the Tunisian people here. We hope that all Middle East and Islamic countries will come to an understanding of secular and democratic governance as soon as possible, and these brutal killings in Turkey will be eliminated. Respected lawmakers, where we come from today, the theatre demonstrations in courts, in prisons like Silivri, rights violations in prisons, corruption, murder, and the fact that fair trial has been put under the influence of teachers like Muammar Aksoy, I think, in their bones. In particular, one of the most important problems we've had in recent years, the lawless or the administrational dilemmas is the children who are dressed in shrouds instead of wedding dresses. One of the most important report cards in the AKP is the children dressed in shrouds instead of wedding gowns. I wish Mr. Secretary the best of luck. I hope this solves the problems of children who are dressed in shrouds instead of dresses, and our children who are dressed in dresses instead of shrouds will soon live their lives in school and then as happy citizens of the country. Of course, the two children of the person who was killed in Hamur district in particular, who had been sentenced to eight years and six months, mother-in-law and father-in-law for six years were left in the middle, but there was no response to any investigations or objective responsibilities or subjective responsibilities to the ministers. That's how shallow the law is. Thank you. Good evening.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0393par0061	Thank you, Mr. Iron. On behalf of him, the second speaker is Şanlıurfa MP Mr. Zeynep Adıç. Here you go, Mr. Nice Guy.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0394par0065	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have taken a pledge on Bill 524, and through this proposal, I would like to say that it is proud that a serious approach to our disabled citizens' active participation in social life, the ability to ensure an equal opportunity is entirely in control of our legislation. And again, the amendments to Law 5651, which are part of the bill, should also indicate that a more open plane for the Internet environment, which is one of the most dynamic and efficient forms of the age, will be contributed to by setting the balance of freedoms and social needs at the highest level. Although, recently, there have been some expressions of the truth that are completely unobstructed, not far from the good will, but the truth is completely different from that, which, as someone insists, doesn't come to the Internet or anything else in this country. The regulations that maintain personality rights are also delicately avoided from being thrown around by an anti-corruption coil. To state these arrangements in its basic terms, there is only one answer for the violations of personal rights that the courts will send their verdicts to. First of all, there are as many real people in this country as there are in this country as there are in this country as there are in this country because of the decisions that have been passed on, and it is of course it is the duty of the legal system to ensure that these sacrifices are resolved, and there will be an accessorship union that will be able to provide access to all the accessors to this opportunity, that will be delivered to the terms of decisions, that will be charged with that responsibility. Again, in the same way, right now, prison sentences that I don't think are suitable for 21st-century Turkey are all being removed and the elements are restricted to fines. As a rule, a barrier to content, such as video, image, writing, is being introduced, and there are some practices that have been subjected to a lot of criticism over the years. Here, for example, you've been banned from YouTube in this country for months because of a single video about Ataturk that harms his soul. But in the current practice, a single page of illegal content will be blocked through the URL address, and such an approach will be adopted as a general approach. So, in other words, contrary to what's said, it's not a wholesale and illegal approach, it's a problem-solving, it's a counter-integrating approach. Decisions and executions are shortened for the removal of victims. One day, we can all be victims of the assassinations of reputations, virtual abuses, the greatest injustice against crimes, hurtful, contrary to human dignity, the fact that many times the content we can say is too late to be obstructed by legislation, so it's a matter of the delay of the law, in other words, and with the bill, it's changed in favor of people and humanity. The deadlines for decision-making and responses to applications are shortened, whether the applicants turn to content providers and use the process of warning-lifting, whether they apply to the court or apply directly to the TİB (TİB) because of the violation of private privacy alone, and there is still only one address, a single URL block. Another situation is open to appeal to every decision, and there is no collective obstruction or ban in any way, or, in other words, an arrangement that can be described as "surveillance" does not exist in this arrangement. Turkey says it will continue to strengthen freedom, democracy, and the phenomenon of the social state, as well as democracy, because it is true, because it is just, not because someone wanted it, but because it is a country that has an important place in the virtual world at the height of Internet activation, I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0395par0072	Thank you, Mr. Goody. There will now be a 15-minute question-and-answer procedure on the section. There are lawmakers entering the system. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0396par0076	Fifteen minutes, right, sir?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0395par0077	Fifteen minutes, seven and a half, seven and a half.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0396par0078	Yes, sir. I'll only use it for 20 seconds.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0395par0079	As you wish.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0396par0080	Mr. Secretary, there is a law published in the Official Gazette of 2/8/2013 concerning your ministry. This is a law on the free use of public transportation for the elderly -- over the age of 65 -- and the disabled -- but they can't benefit from it now, especially in the railways or Marmaray, because there are no regulations or regulations in the practice. When will the regulations come out? Will these friends take advantage of this right? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0395par0082	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0397par0083	Thank you. Sir, what holdings do the Ministry now own, how much per month? In the past, even though this building was once asked to be rented to the Ministry of Health for $300,000, the Ministry of Health has given up renting it -- it's very expensive. How much is paid today, what conglomerate did he do? Also, while the Ministry has available places to give courses in Ankara, unfortunately, some of the supporters of the hotel in Antalya are being sent here and are taking courses there. What hotels, in the last five years, especially in the winter months, have been paid for and paid for and for the price of the hotel? I want a list of these. And in the last three years, even though the Ministry, especially Fatma Şahin, has established some law firms that are close to him, and they have their own relatives in these lawyers' offices...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0398par0088	Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0399par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've also stated in my speech that there are around 6,000 temporary contractual disabled workers in public. They work for six months, and they're out of work for six months. When a disabled person is unemployed, he has no income anywhere. They're screaming. Are you going to find a solution to all of this? Do you have any work to compensate for their victims? My second question, Mr. Minister, is in my speech again: Social Aid Foundation personnel are also experiencing the same difficulty, between the two lips of governor and the governors, they can be dismissed at any time, they can be dismissed by political preferences. Do you plan to bring security to the Social Aid Foundation staff? In addition, the funds you distribute to these foundations are distributed according to the population. But I also think the criteria for development should be considered. Do you have any work on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0400par0093	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0401par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, don't you think you should leave this to management by making the TİB (TİB) in charge of preventing access to the Internet? Given the corruption of the administration in public banks alone, I'd like to be explained not only what you've brought to the Internet, but what is this new event, the new constraints, the censorship you've brought to the Internet, which has brought the judiciary to power by this practice. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0402par0097	Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0403par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, considering the joint responsibility of the government, I'd like to ask you two questions. My first question: Why did the government not heed this warning, even though the National Intelligence Service warned the government about Reza Zarrab and some ministers eight months before December 18th? My second question: Is it possible for any prosecutor or law enforcement to perform corruption operations against that individual if any name close to the government tries to commit robbery or corruption? Is there going to be an operation against the prosecutor or law enforcement officer who operates corruption? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0404par0103	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0405par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Destiny is one of 181,000 doomed children's brides, the victim of a murder made to look like suicide. Is there no responsibility for the public official, the public official, the imam, the imam, the head of staff, or the principal of the school, the governor, or the governor? If so, has there been any investigation into any of this? Also, two, two and a half years later, has the status of the child given the birth certificate been questioned, has there been an investigation into the authorities? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0406par0108	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0407par0109	Yeah, I didn't finish the third question. In particular, it is said that Fatma Şahin has established close legal offices to make peace with his wives during this period of separation and has employed lawyers here. Which law offices have been opened? How much have these law offices been paid in the last three years? Can you I.D. the lawyers who work here? Also, when the mothers of children who are disabled and in need of care have to quit, do you plan to arrange for them to deposit bonuses from the SEC to take care of their children?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0406par0111	Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0408par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. My last question was not fully understood, and since there was no time, I would like to ask Mr. Secretary to listen to this: Mr. Minister, there are no job guarantees for people who work in social aid and solidarity, do you have a job guarantee for them? In addition, because the foundation staff is understaffed, the norm staff are understaffed, and the foundation staff is suffering a great deal, especially in matters such as earthquakes and disasters. Do you intend to increase that number, norm staff? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0409par0115	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0410par0116	Minister, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy was founded on the basis of Law 6223, dated 06/04/2011. The Ministry's service units have been formed under this law and operates in the form of the Retarded and Old Service General Directorate. Do you think it should be divided not by the disabled and the Elder Services, but by the General Directorate of Obstructed Services, the General Directorate of Old Services? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0409par0118	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0411par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. The question of Mr. Aslanoglu is: You had a sub-laws arrangement on the use of transportation by disabled people over the age of 65, and what happened to the result? The arrangement is over, and we hope to get him out in a very short time. The question of Mr. Kamer Young is, how much is the rent of the Ministry building, and there's an unfair...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0412par0122	Which conglomerate does it belong to?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0413par0123	Who does it belong to?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0414par0124	Please don't interfere. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0415par0126	It belongs to Flagtar Holdings.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0416par0127	Kayseri, Abdullah Gül's man...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0415par0128	It's rented on the market track. You have a claim that the Ministry of Health wanted to hire earlier, but found high, which we don't have.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0416par0129	How much is it rented for?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0417par0130	How much is it leased, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0418par0131	Mr. Secretary, continue, please.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0417par0132	How much is the rent, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0419par0133	What do you mean, go ahead...?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0420par0134	The other question of the Kamer Youth is: Education is organised under the Law of the Expenses, hotels are chosen on the terms of the Law of Contraction. Another question is about the lawyers: our ministry has legal counsel. Our legal work is run by this consultant. Working with private law offices is out of the question.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0419par0136	I'll look into these questions.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0421par0137	Mr. Secretary, please continue. Please don't interfere.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0419par0139	Let him answer correctly, my dear, and you...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0422par0140	The dismissal of staff from the Social Aid Foundations is often on the agenda. They don't have social security. There's a question in the form of a social security. These are friends of ours, or rather our foundations, in the status of a private legal person, and our colleagues who work there are under the safety of the Business Act. There's a question about TİB that the judiciary is out of commission and that it's a censorship. Judgeship is not in effect, and a court order is requested when it comes to assaulting personal rights. This isn't censorship. The question of Mr. Demir is: fate is one of 181,000 children's brides. Has there been an investigation into the imam, the headman, the governor, and our friend, who wants to know about the development of Destiny's child? Yes, let's just say that people who are held responsible for Destiny's situation or fate are currently being investigated. The person who married him as a child, this marriage, the organisers of the informal marriage ceremony, and the parents are currently under investigation. Turkish Civil Law and Turkish Penal Code organise these issues. According to our Turkish Civil Law, and according to the Turkish Penal Code, 17 years of age, 18-year-olds are not allowed to get married, it is against the law. When faced with such a situation, legal provisions are imposed on all those responsible. The social welfare foundation receives $87.5m per month periodic shares. The amount is transferred not only according to the population, but according to the indicator. We have three main categories, including population, rural city, urban, rural, rural; socioeconomic development, work density, active file count. To answer other questions in writing, I haven't been able to keep a note very long.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0423par0145	You didn't tell me about the rent, the rent? Are you going to answer in writing?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0424par0146	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0425par0147	We've got time. Mr. Serindağ, please.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0424par0149	Mr. President, I'm going to ask you a second time to make this clear, or I'm going to repeat the question asked by another friend of mine. How much is your ministry's building rented monthly or annual, and for a few years, Mr. Secretary? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0426par0151	Let me answer your question in writing so as not to give you a misleading answer.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0427par0152	No more questions in the system. The question-answer process is complete. Initiating motions on matter. There are two motions in Article 56, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the terms of the 524th article of the current law bill to be changed in the form of.75%. Yusuf Halaçoğlu Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'd like to propose and change the 56th amendment to the current 524 rows of legislation. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Musa Pine Izzet Cetin Aydın Agha Ayadın ADADDE 56 - 6/6/2002 and the first chapter of Article 7 of the Special Consumption Tax Act 4760 added integer conviction (a) to the end of the subdivision (2), and I also added the lower (b) subbend (b) below, which was added to the underbelly (c) and added to the lower parentheses (c) below (c) was the lower me, and the current (c) sub me (d) was the lower me (d) me (d) was the lower bend, and this was the lower me (d) the lower me. "A driver's license can't be issued because he is mentally disabled." "b) 87.03 G. T. I. P. The size of the engine cylinder is 2,800 cm3/, those who exceed the volume of the engine cylinder (except for the car's car, racecars, land vehicles), which have a seat to eight people, including the driver), who are able to take all the wheels from the engine, who are able to take all the wheels from the engine, can't use the vehicles personally, and who are required to use the disabled health board report, which has been used to carry a maximum weight of 3.5 tonnes, and who have not been able to carry more than 50 per cent of the level, including the driver, and who are unable to use the state of disability situations of the driver, and who are required to use a wheelchair or a stretcher, and who are required to carry more than 90 percent of the disabled, and who are required to be able to carry or be able to carry more than 90 degrees of wheelchairs." "For people with a class-H driver's license and hearing aids, a special automatic-speed driver is considered a proprietary vehicle (e.g. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. "d) This bendin (a), (b) and (c) sub-bents of vehicles described in the same sub-bents by the property and the disabled, after the earthquake, the landslide, the flood, the fire or the accident caused it to become unusable, by the goods and the disabled, Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0428par0176	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0427par0177	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0429par0178	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0427par0179	I'm reading the reason: Since he is mentally disabled, he is unable to obtain a full-fledged hospital report that he cannot provide a driver's license, and he is unable to benefit from the OTV immunity due to the disability or disability of those provided by people who are either living together or who are obliged to take care of their transportation together. The exclusion clause issued by the 7th article of the OTVK is unfair to the mentally disabled, since it is not available to those who are disabled in their family to participate in education, health or social activities for those who remain under 90% of their disability or disability. In order to eliminate this injustice, the first joke of Article 7 of the ETVK (2) is also intended to include tax exceptions for the tax equipment for mental disability, which will be provided with tools which are not granted a Class H driver's license and transports, added to the end of the subcommittee (2) (a). Although the H-class driver has a driver's license and is deaf, he is unable to receive a report that he should drive a vehicle that is "compatible to his hearing," and that is why automatic gear tools are not accepted in this scope, so deaf people are unable to benefit from STV exemption. The TEDvin style of the 7th article of the EVC is an injustice to the deaf. In order to eliminate this injustice, the sentence added at the end of the current (b) bend (2) of the first joke includes the H-class driver's license and automatic-driven utilities of those who have to use a hearing aid. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the terms of the 524th article of the current law bill to be changed in the form of.75%. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0430par0189	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0427par0190	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0431par0191	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0427par0192	Mr. Erkan Akçay will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0432par0195	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 56th Amendment. I salute you all. In the case of the disabled who are 90 per cent and are unable to use the vehicles in person and are forced to use wheelchairs or gurneys, they are given a discount for high- ceiling vehicles for disabled persons. 90% disability rate is very high, dear friends. In our motion, we propose that this ratio be reduced to 75 percent. Again, according to the Special Consumption Tax Act Against the War Malullers and Anti-Terror Law 2330, health reports are required from those who receive monthly spaces and pensions under 1,600 cc's, which are less than 1,600 cc's. War and duty disability, however, are determined along with a full degree in military hospital belonging to the Turkish Armed Forces. Later, degrees were determined by the Social Security Institution's health board. Those who are considered disabled should be given a vehicle without a medical report and a five-year-old ride provided by the Social Security Agency for less than 1,600 cc's and less than 1,600 cc's provided free travel cards. They should also be used by the first-degree relatives of their disability and warfare. Unfortunately, his relatives can't use it, so they're having trouble taking advantage of it. One of the problems the Ministry of Family and Social Policy should be dealing with is our homeless citizens. Thousands of our citizens live on the street in these months when temperatures are negative degrees. Consider our 40 - year - old citizen, unemployed, homeless, and lying on the street. He can't be admitted to nursing homes because he's not old, he can't be admitted to rehabilitation centers because he's not disabled, but he can be housed in guesthouses or hotels for a few days on the grounds of the governorship's initiative and the Social Welfare Foundation, or he can also be sent to other municipalities where homeless people can stay. We benefit from the Ministry of Family and Social Policy working together with local governments. Dear lawmakers, according to the Ministry of Development's 2013 Public Investments Programme, there were three projects under the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in Manisa. These are the construction of a 60-member rehabilitation centre in Manisa, an unblocked living centre, a 40-management care centre, and a 50-person nursing home in Manisa Gördes. The Manisa municipality has a 90-bed-access home in Manisa, where there is no nursing home for the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. The pension home for a private foundation is capable of 120 beds. Manisa, these nursing homes in the center are incapable of bed capacity. Manisa, therefore, needs a home of at least 150 beds in the centre of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. With these thoughts, I ask for the acceptance of our motion, and with respect.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0433par0203	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 56th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. So I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission. If the commission joins the motion with the majority of its members, the 21 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and recommend that the following 57th article be added after Article 56 of the 524th Amendment and the rest of the material numbers be reassessed accordingly. Musa Pine Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi Aydın Ajan Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Müslim Sarı Article 7/A of the Special Consumption Tax Act No. 57 ▪ 4760 has been changed in the following way. "Article 7/A (I) is listed on the list; 1. 2710.19. 41. 00. 11, 2710.19. 41. 00. 13 and 2710.19. 45. 00. 12 G's. T. I. P. In accordance with the Law on the Protection of Competitiveness 4054 and the Law on Oil Market Law 5015; at the border crossings set by the Council of Ministers, the truck carrying the exporting of property under Customs Law 4458, the semi-trömorks with attractive and cooling units (with the condition that they do not exceed the amount of standard fuel storage for cars and cooling units) will only be delivered abroad. 2. 2710.19. 41. 00. 11, 2710.19. 45. 00. 11, 2710.19. 45. 00. 12 and 2710.19. 49. 00. 11 G. T. I. P. The delivery of the number-one goods to those with farmer's documents to be used for agricultural machinery, equipment and vehicles, Except for the tax. The Finance Ministry is authorized to determine the legal and fundamentals of the exception in this clause, and to apply the exception to those who are processing according to this clause through the return of taxes." Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0434par0223	Sir, I need to call the commissioners, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0433par0224	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0434par0225	I'd like to invite the Plan Budget Commissioners here.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0435par0226	I'm not coming because you took the friends out. Why did you take the friends out?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0434par0227	But I have to evacuate for the commissioners, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0436par0228	Yes, Mr. Commission, please proceed with your procedure.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0434par0229	If I don't evacuate for the commissioner's friends, I'll see something different. I'm predicting what's going to happen to me!
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0436par0230	Commissioners, please...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0434par0231	Sir, we're the only ones who... yes, friends...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0436par0232	Yes, Mr. Lawmakers, please, we're in the process.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0434par0233	Sir, we don't have a majority, Mr. President, so we can't agree to the motion.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0436par0234	Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. There are two motions in Article 57: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 57th Amendment. We would like to add the expression "sexuality and disability" to come after the expression "sexuality" in the article. Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Izzet Cetin Musa Pine Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change the 57th amendment to the current law bill in 524 rows, as follows. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Article 57-22/5/2003 and Article 5 of Article 5 of Business Law 4857 have been changed as follows. "In a business relationship, language, race, color, gender, disability, political thinking, philosophical belief, religion and sects and so on cannot be discriminated." Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0437par0253	Mr. President, whose motion was it? Can I have one more?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0438par0254	The Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0436par0255	The nationalist movement party.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0437par0256	There's a chance our friends will participate in one of the two motions. So I asked at the point of appreciation. We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0436par0258	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0439par0259	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0436par0260	Mr. Erkan Akçay, the Manisa MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0440par0263	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 57th Amendment. I salute you all. According to the first joke of Article 5 (the principle of equitable conduct) of this 4857 Work Law, the first article states that there can be no discrimination based on language, race, gender, political thinking, philosophical belief, religion and sects and so on. And because of disability with Article 57 of the bill, it has been ruled that it cannot be discriminated against, and I would like to rephrase that arrangement. However, in parallel with the 10th article that regulates the principle of equality of the Constitution in our proposal... now, in this business relationship, language, race, gender, political thought, philosophical belief, religion and sects are not considered. In our Constitution, we also have the word "color" in it. We add this word to this law, which is color. However, Mr. Secretary and the Commission believe that this concept of the race also refers to "color," but these are different concepts, and since it is in our Constitution, we have suggested this, hopefully, it will be accepted. Dear friends, this arrangement will not make any sense unless the public and private sector quotas for the employment of the disabled remain empty and deterrent sanctions are brought to it. One of the most important problems in our country is unemployment and employment. According to the 2002 Turkish Investigation for the disabled, 78 per cent of the disabled are not part of the labour force. As of 2014, we don't know what kind of work was done. Only 20 per cent of workers can be employed. In short, only one of the five disabled can find employment in the labour market. In our country, employment policies for disabled people are largely based on quota techniques. Although the Kota technique is intended for the employment phase, the protection of pre-employees is always neglected. According to Article 53 of the State Officers' Law, the number of disabled officers that should be employed in public is 3 percent. According to Article 30 of the Employment Law, 3 per cent of private sectors where more or more workers work have to be employed and 4 per cent disabled in public workplaces. The AKP government declared 2005 and 2010 the Year of Employment of the Integrated People, promising full public openings, but even in public, most of the disability quota is empty. According to data from the State Chief of Staff in June 2013, the number of disabled officers who should be employed in the public office is 55,334. The number of disabled officers working in public is 32,000. An open-ended disabled officer is also available at 11:545. These are not included in the positions of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Secretary-General, the Presidential Secretary-Generalship, the MIT Undersecretary, the Central Bank, the Agriculture Bank, the People's Bank and the local governments. With these added, the number and ratio will increase even further. At the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, which is responsible for the employment of disabled officers, there are 57 disabled officers at the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, which is also responsible for the employment of disabled workers. Every disabled employee or employer who does not comply with the obligation to employ a disabled worker or employer is fined $1,832 per month by the ISKUR county office as of 2013. Such criminal sanctions are not applied to employers under government officials. As you can see, the regulations for the quota system have not provided the participation of the disabled in the labour market, the employment of the disabled, the peace of work and the expected contribution in business relations. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the government would be more zealous in the employment of the disabled.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0441par0278	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. The adopted motion was removed from the other motion, since it was more incompatible between the motions. Now, in accordance with the motions adopted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who do not accept... Article 57 is accepted. There are two motions in Article 58: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Fifty-eight of the current bill of law. After the statement of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, we would like to add the expression "positive" to the article. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 58 of Law 524 be changed as follows. Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Article 58-4857's first joke of Article 30-4857 changed to "5 per cent" in the form of "4 per cent" in its third joke, "How to be employed," which was added "by the opinion of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy," which was included in the sixth joke, "50 per cent" in its statement. Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0442par0297	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0441par0298	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0443par0299	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0441par0300	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to increase the quota of disabled workers in the public. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Fifty-eight of the current bill of law. After the statement of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, we would like to add the expression "positive" to the article. Süleyman Çelebi (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0444par0309	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0441par0310	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0445par0311	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0441par0312	Mr. Musa Çam will speak on the motion. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0446par0315	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, dear MPs, I'd like to share with you an article I read last year about corruption when Hasan Ören spoke about corruption at the end of my speech. The title of the article is: "God damn you!" Yes, God damn you! Who are they? Indeed, the defiant transgressors, the transgressors, the transgressors, What are they doing? Let me count one: They're forbidden places. They acquire unlawful gains and hoard up goods of goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, goods, They're corrupting contracts. They get a commission on jobs. They betray their trusts. They deceive people, they lie, they promise, they don't keep their promises. And they bring their offspring, and their kindred, and their kindred, and their brethren, and their confederates, to a place they are not worthy of. Some people take a month-to-month salary from an ATM when they're not doing anything. Legally and legally, they build places they shouldn't be built in exchange for bribes or pressure. They think it's their father's farm. They ruin the education that grows Turkey's future. They'll be rich like Karun, with legendary wealth that they'll never be able to reveal. They cooperate with the most ruthless, cruel, cruel enemies of Islam, even though they are on the right path. Whatever sacred value there is, they use it for money, benefit, prestige, dignity, fame. To the Nemrod and Pharaoh, to bring forth stones, and to be extravagant, and to be seen, and to be seen, and to be debauched, and to be extremised. And they say, "The Qur'an is nothing but a lie." They say, "The Messenger is a man who does what they do not approve." They say I'm all they can say. There is nothing they will not eat for their own souls, for their own lusts, for their worldly lusts. They have all the signs of hypocrisy. They will say, "We are reforming,' and they will do nothing but cause turmoil. Indeed, in this world and in our home there is a partition, and [also] the dark devils who are manifestly hostile to Islam and to those who have submitted [to Allah]. But you can be sure that they can't, can't, can't, can't, can't destroy, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, Cursed be those who hold holy Islam to personal gains and bonds of cash! This is the last, greatest, most terrible obstacle to Islam. This is the abuser of religion. They destroyed all our hopes. "This system is broken, we'll replace it with a proper system," and then we saw what it did. To the good things of the wicked, the wicked, the unclean, and the land!) They attacked like wolves. Once upon a time, there were some very fast, very uncompromising, very exciting radicals. What happened to them? They're not making any noise. They held the burden, no more radicality, no more excitement, no more love, no more enthusiasm. It was all a lie! Where is the Messenger (Muhammad SAW) whom Allah has sent as an excellent example for mankind and the believers? When the prophet passed away, he left no inheritance of gold and silver. In his lifetime and in his ministry, he did not love money, he did not care about money. And look at all these miserable, muslim-looking fools. Their minds ideas, their ambitions, money, always interest, always self-inflicted... The Prophet said to them, "Their religion and their qiblah are their wives." There's a man who says he's a sheriff, and a man who says the word of God is Ali's word, listen to this wise saying: And let not the prayer and the fast of your people grieve you. So look at his fate, [O people of Makkah], with denarii and dirhams." Dear Muslims, be wise, be vigilant, be conscious. Religiousity is not a word, not literature. The pious one does not eat unlawfully, nor does he leave [anything] equal to a date-stone, nor does he deceive, nor does he lie, nor does he break his promise, nor does he betray the trusts. He's religious, he'd rather die of misery, but he'd never think about living off illegal money, not getting rich. We've been destroyed by aggressive heathens, euphemisms, disasters, Islam and Muslim enemies. No, no! It's the hypocrites, the abusers of religion, the scoundrels who bonded the sacred goods with us, that do the most harm...
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0447par0351	Thank you, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0446par0352	I say, wake up to the Muslims. Those who deliberately devour the forbidden with a monstrous appetite, say, "God damn you!" I'm telling you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0447par0354	Thank you, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0446par0355	This article was written by Mehmet Sevket Eygi last year in the National Gazette on 6/9/2006.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0447par0356	Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0446par0357	I know it's a duty to share it with you.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0447par0359	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on Article 59 of the same nature, which I will have read and process together. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 59th of the current bill of law. We would like to request that the statement from the non-employment fund in the Article be changed by ▪ Treasure. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin The signatures of the other motion are: Mihrimah Belma Line Gülay Dalyan Sevim Fights The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Does the Commission participate in the proposed motions?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0448par0380	We're giving it to you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0447par0381	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0449par0382	We agree.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0447par0383	Ankara MP Mr. Izzet Çetin will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0450par0386	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all at this hour of the night. Dear friends, there is an additional clause added to Law 4857. The matter, indeed, seems to be a very innocent substance when it's looked at. I mean, it's an arrangement for the wages of disabled people who work in protected workplaces. Honestly, maybe it's a little hard to talk about. In addition to the disabled who need to be brought to society, friends who have prepared the original material text also pointed out how to pay the wages of mentally and mentally and mentally disabled people who are difficult to get into the labour market. I also said in Article 42 and in my speech on behalf of the group that they must be brought to society. This kind of work, of course, is the job of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. There was also an arrangement brought in because of it, but I, honest and honest employees, employers who employ employees, employers who pay their taxes on time, who don't try to bribe, who don't try to commit corruption, by separating honest and honest businessmen: since the Republic was founded, we've transferred all incentives to the employer's side, they've received government incentives, almost the easy investments. The fact that Europe, which was built with us or was destroyed long after us, has become our target today, reveals the fact that too many patronages have been abused if we haven't developed yet. Here, the state, the social state, has no right to pin its obligations on the employers, nor do they have the right to pin it on the employees. I mean, it's not really the right approach to force even the mental, physical, and mental disabled to work their fees, to force them to 33%, 4 percent, but if we're all citizens of a country, if we're all solid, if we're all with the disabled, we support them so that we can heal each other's wounds. When you look at its essence, it aims to reduce the government's task, the ministry's duty, the share of the budget, directly to the Unemployment Insurance Fund. Of course, since the Unemployment Insurance Fund -- we're telling you every time it's used out of purpose, it's not just the Unemployment Insurance Fund, it's the government's report card for all the government's past governments, because it's out of record, it's almost as if a trust lobby is making legal arrangements to tear this place up. So it's an unacceptable approach that employers' wages paid on time will be returned from the unemployment benefit fund to employers. He'll realize that, I think, the AKP Group will pull it back. Because of such an arrangement, it turned out that the Ministry of Labor did not know about it, nor did some other ministers. Dear friends, of course, at this hour of the night, I don't want to say anything that's gonna hurt or hurt you, but really, from time to time, what we say when we're talking about this podium is that we're misunderstood between the AKP Group, the friends who serve in the legislature and the friends in the executive body. What we're critical of here is the government, so if it's not, we have no problem offending or upsetting lawmakers belonging to the AKP Group, but December 17th is almost a mile in the country. It's our duty to clean up this mess, this bad going on in our country. Perhaps it is time that you take upon yourself what we say to the government as we speak of the injury of these laws, which is not true. You and I both serve together in the legislature. Our goal is to make the law, to make it right. Even in terms of spelling technique, the arrangement of this material is also flawed, not understandable, not in the form of a text that fits its essence. That's why we made such a motion, asking him to accept it, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0451par0393	Thank you. Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu will be speaking on the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0452par0397	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of our Nationalist Movement Party Group on the amendment to Article 59 of the Law on the Ministry of Family and Social Policy 524. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, the disabled who work on a salary in our country have been granted a tax reduction by governments for a long time. This discount is of great importance to our disabled citizens. The amount of this discount for disabled persons is done every year, considering inflation and price hikes. The government did not give a disability discount in 2014, pretending there were no price hikes. The disabled expect this discount. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are a significant part of the population of Turkey, consisting of our disabled citizens. According to the latest data, 12.29 per cent of our country's population, 8.5 million are trying to survive in Turkey as disabled. Of the 8.5 million disabled people in our country, 3 million 733,000 are men and 4 million 648 thousand are women-impaired citizens. The total percentage of the disabled is 11.1 per cent, and the percentage of the disabled is 13.4 per cent. Also, 12.69 per cent of the disabled population strive to live in cities and 11.67 per cent in rural areas. The number of disabled people in the world has exceeded 500 million. Data show that in many countries around the world, one of every 10 people is disabled due to physical and mental disorders. For this reason, regulations for disabled persons have crossed borders for all countries. The arrangements for disabled persons must be structured, considering activities such as travel and tourism. It is not possible for us to ensure that our disabled are integrated into society with only the disabled and their families. This integration can only be achieved with the participation of all segments of society, especially our state. This integration in our country has not been fully achieved until today, I'm afraid. Because services such as education, employment and rehabilitation for the disabled in our country remain very weak investments. Mr. President, the immediate implementation of the resources that will facilitate the lives of our disabled citizens within the community is of great importance. Our disabled citizens face enormous obstacles every day in the street and in everyday life. Inadequate regulations in our country make it difficult for our disabled citizens to act alone on the sidewalk. The arrangements for parks and gardens must also be improved, including public transportation vehicles, airports, subgates and overpasses. Physical arrangements in official and private institutions must also be accelerated. In this way, our disabled citizens should be allowed to move freely in the environment of life. In addition to organizing education, rehabilitation, and life environment, our disabled citizens experience the biggest problem in employment. For today, most of our disabled citizens are unemployed. For the employment of disabled citizens, disabled staffs in the state and private sector must be identified and appointed immediately. I hereby salute the High Council with the honor of requesting the acceptance of our amendment proposal.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0453par0406	Thank you. Are we getting the alibi of the other motion?
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0454par0408	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit08spe0453par0409	Here you go. To encourage disabled employment, this quality is intended to be paid by the Treasury. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are accepted. In accordance with the motions adopted, I submit to your votes the 59th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 59th article has been accepted.
tbmm-2014-01-30sit09spe0453par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 55th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's a recommendation from the Council of Counsellors that I'll have the proposal read and vote on. The following proposal was approved by the General Assembly at the Council's 30/1/2014 meeting on Thursday (now). Mihrimah Belma Line Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The agenda's Law Charter 534, which is included in "The Bill of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions," is to be taken into the fifth place, and the order of other tasks is to be considered according to this. Until the completion of the talks of Law Proposal No. 524 during Tuesday (February 4th 2014), On Wednesday, February 5, 2014, until the meeting of Bill 534, Until the meeting of Thursday (February 6, 2014), until the meeting of the 532th Bill of Laws, Keep up the good work, On Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays, on Fridays 31 January 2014 and 1-2-3 February 2014, In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Charter of 534 Orders, it is considered the basic law of 534 Laws, and its divisions are in the accompanying form. It's recommended. Under the Military Code and by the Law and by the Law The Bill of the Law for Change [[1/877]] 1. Articles 1 to 22 · Global Voices 2. Articles 23 through 43 (Absorption 31;32;33) Article 43 and Article 43 Twenty-four, including the temporary 36th and 37th article. 3. Articles 44 to 64 (responsible to Article 56) 22) including Articles 2 and 3 (Abstract 2) Anybody want a word on the proposal? No. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. We will continue negotiations with Bill 524. [[Continue]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Environmental Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 5th place, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Italy, in favour of Agreement for Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development Areas. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Environmental Commission, Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which are ranked 6th among the Government of the Republic of Turkey's Government, in accordance with the Agreement of the Covenant on the Water Basin Amenajm. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission will not be found after this, it is as follows that on Tuesday (February 4th 2014), it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (February 2014) to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00, and I wish all lawmakers a happy holiday.
