tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 10th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0002par0003	I swear it doesn't exist! Not really, it's free to try.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0001par0004	Mr. Tanal, from now on, if you tell me sooner, I'll do a roll call.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0002par0005	But I really don't.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0001par0006	Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first off-the-book statement belongs to Mardin MP Erol Dora (the first member of parliament) who wants to talk about the deaths of workers in the mines. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0003par0012	Mr. President, I have been promised to speak out of the agenda on the death of miners in Turkey. I salute the General Assembly. Although nine days have passed since the mining disaster in Ermenek district of Karaman, there is still no news of the 18 miners trapped. Two Chinese miners who were trapped in a cave-in in Bartin's mines died while the tragedy in Ermenek continued and the workers who had not yet been reached. In the same day, a coal miner died in an unlicensed coal mine in Zonguldak. While the miners' deaths took place on the agenda, the news of a worker's death came from Isparta in the same week, unfortunately. 18 workers lost their lives and 27 others were injured as the midibus, which carried seasonal workers near the Yalvaç district of Isparta. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, at least 160 workers died in October, according to the report of the Labour Health and Occupational Safety Council. At least 14.555 workers have died in the last 12 years during the AK PARTY rule. According to the same data, at least 354 workers were killed in the mines in 2014. According to International Labour Organization (ILO), the number of workers killed every year in Turkey, which ranked third in the deaths of workers after El Salvador and Algeria. Dear lawmakers, the 301 miners' rights to live in Soma. While 301 miners' workers were taken from their hands, 301 miners were killed, and again the pain of the construction elevator disaster of the Grandkids, where the right to life of 10 workers was seized, is now in our midst, while we are now face a mass-killing in Karaman-Ermenek. The report of the TEMA Foundation, which has been submitted to the Ministry as saying the launch of the Ermenek mine is unsecured, has been ignored, and the current audits have allowed production to continue without completion. Mr. President, we have to stress that the killings of these workers cannot be naturalized or ordinaryized because there are no precautions. It's obviously business killings. In the wake of the Soma disaster, the government of the AK PARTI, who edited the bag for a few demonstrations of the law, but did not move to remove the real causes of the mining accidents, and the bosses who worked with their lives in the way that he opened it, left workers in Karaman. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that the government does not care about the health and economic well-being of the mining workers, whether by lawmakers or by other opposition parties, the persistent rejection of the motions for questions and research by the power. I'm building my own fighter plane, I'm building my own gun. The government, who boasts, continues to dig up its own mines in the 19th century with primitive methods and techniques. The same government allows our citizens to work in the 19th century violent methods of capitalism and die painfully every day. Mr. President, the situation is very clear. The job requires that the concerned ministers resign immediately. In mines, regulations that make modern technology necessary should be adopted and implemented by adopting modern universal norms on labour health and occupational safety. Coal stoves must be nationalized, coal-making leases, subcontractors, and service purchases must be terminated, and the flexible and uncompromising practices that lead to disaster in working life should be abandoned. Political pressure on workers to organize and choose their union must be put to an end immediately. The union dam and the actual and legal barriers to organisation must be removed. In business killings, the policy of punishment must be waived, the responsible must be judged at all levels. The relevant protocols of international ILO contracts aimed at ensuring labour health and safety must be signed, and the reservations set must be removed. Turkey of the 21st century must renew mining and operating technology and turn to modern methods. 21st-century Turkey must immediately eliminate the fact that it employs non-registered, low-paying, ununioned and unsecured workers, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0004par0023	Thank you. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Antalya MP Osman Kapafa, who asked for talks about the damage caused by floods and floods in Manavgat district of Antalya. Here you go, Mr. Captain.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0005par0028	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. My dear friends, on October 24th, the heavy rain started at 3 p.m., causing floods and floods for eight hours. For many years, it has rained 160-180 kilograms per hour per square meter in Manavgat. This time, it has rained 350 kilograms per square meter, so it has rained twice as much. About 500 shops and as many houses were flooded. At 600 cars, the motor vehicle has become unusable. In some neighborhoods, half the stores were flooded, and the stores were flooded, and the already struggling tradesman was devastated. It belongs to 288 people, sir, 7800 hectares of cotton, peanuts, sesame, cornfields, 5 greenhouses and 26 farms in a total of 26 villages, heavy. Agricultural District Directorate has determined that the damage to agriculture is $16.5 million. There's been damage to hotel and tourist areas. A well-known hotel owner has told us that his loss is only $4 trillion. Manavgat City has also tried to help citizens with 300 teams, 25 business machines that it has hired and bought, and Zodiac boats, and has constantly distributed bread and water by opening ovens. Congressmans, in short, life has been paralyzed in Manavgat. Dear friends, the annual rains of Antalya are 5 times higher than the EU average, 3 times higher than Turkey's average. Plenty of rains are also the cause of the beauty in Antalya, as well as the natural disasters in Antalya. In recent years, Antalya has been the capital of natural disasters as well as the capital of tourism and agriculture. In 2011, six people from the flood lost their lives and two bodies were still not found in the village of Hassılören in Gebiz. To protect Antalya from natural disasters, it requires a regional project such as GAP, DAP, KOP. My friends, Manavgat, by the Council of Ministers, must declare a natural disaster zone, and the damage of those who have been harmed must be paid to the state immediately. With the Metropolitan Law, sewers, water and fire services have moved to the capital city. The drainage channels should be cleaned twice a year by the Metropolitan ASAT, but they haven't been cleaned, so the damage has been major. The debts of the municipalities closed in Manavgat, with the Metropolitan Law, have been transferred to Manavgat Municipality and to the capital city. Because of the Metropolitan Law, the district chiefs and mayors are tied up, and we have to wait for services from the city. Therefore, since the Metropolitan Law has been implemented, we will submit a parliamentary research motion to investigate whether the work is sufficient or inadequate. My dear friends, Manavgat is our tourist district, the centre of Antalya, and most of the districts are tourist districts. Infrastructure lack of service affects our tourism abroad negatively in terms of image and publicity. So again, I want to emphasize that in order to preserve the tourism and agriculture of our Antalya, a project like Gap, DAP, KOP should be implemented. Manavgat will be declared a disaster zone and will be paid by the state. All Manavgatians and Anthalian citizens say, "Get well soon, I pray to God that such disasters will never happen again."
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0006par0037	Mr. Veysel Eroglu, Minister of Forest and Water Affairs, will respond to the extracurricular speech. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0007par0040	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have been promised an answer to the speech of Mr. Osman Sir. I salute you all, sir. Now, on October 24, 25 and 26, 2014 in Antalya, there were indeed a number of floods that caused heavy rains in both central and districts, causing financial losses. Basically, we've warned all institutions and organizations and municipalities of these heavy rains, before, by our meteorology General Directorate. In fact, authorities and citizens were informed of the floods and floods expected in Antalya, issued at 18 p.m. on 23 October 2014. But unfortunately, from October 24th to October 26th, 480 kilograms of rain fell to the square meter in Manavgat, which is 484 millimeters. I mean, considering the amount of rain that rains in Turkey in a year is an average of 642 millimeters, it's really understood how much rain it is. There were also 294 kilograms of rain recorded in Belek. In particular, the great floods that could have occurred in Antalya have been largely exposed to numerous extremities by the DSI. There are 51 creek reforms we've built in the last 12 years. In fact, Antalya was constantly exposed to floods due to the topographical situation in Antalya. In fact, when I was DSI General Manager, I made a huge campaign, pulling all the tools and business machines in Turkey to Antalya, and rehabilitating a lot of them with mass machinery work -- almost five or six years ago -- with DSI skill. So, what's been done with these 51 creek reforms? 62 residential sites, including Antalya central and boroughs, were protected from the floods of approximately 123,000 acres. Especially in Manavgat County, there was the possibility of a major disaster due to heavy rains, but we made a very accurate decision there. You know, Congressman, we built the Naras Dam. I've ordered the water eclipse at the Naras Dam because the water is being kept... look, the heavy rains at the Naras Dam have risen 13 metres in the water level, especially in the heavy rains that continue until October 26th. I mean, that's 13 meters of volume. This would have been a much greater disaster if he had indeed gone to Manavgat, and to other lands. The Naras Dam has indeed prevented this disaster greatly, but indeed there has been some damage to the flood. Of course, we'll take the necessary measures, especially the DSI and other institutions, and I'll make that very clear. I also want to thank you for your warning. In fact, if you give us a note of information on what to do, it's our duty to follow them, together, to follow them together. But I'll simply point out that we've really invested a lot in Antalya. As a DSI, we invested $1 billion in Antalya at $1,171 million, 250, so about $1 billion,200 million. With this year... because we're building new dams, dams like Little Aksu Dam. At the end of this year, the investment of the Forest and Water Affairs Ministry alone will catch 1.5 billion TL, which is one of the most invested cities, and I want to stress it in particular. You know, with this, we've opened up about 400,000 acres to water. We also protected 212,980 acres from the floods. With 51 river reforms, there are now five major river reforms going on. For example, Little Aksu Creek is being rehabilitated, and its construction is moving rapidly. Five river reforms, Antalya Kumluca, Alanya Alara Tea, etc., Little Aksu, Elmalı district, are under way. Other than that, of course, the dams and ponds play a huge role in preventing these floods. So, in order to stop the rapidly flowing water -- the topographical state of Antalia -- by all of you -- it must be built with ponds and dams to stop the pouring rain somewhere. As a matter of fact, if it weren't for the Naras Dam, it would have been much more difficult, thank God, to save the Naras Dam. So in Antalya, my deputy, I've instructed 20 dams and pond irrigation facilities to be built within the scope of 1,000 ponds and irrigations a thousand days. I'm not saying this so I won't waste your time, it's going to take me a while to read it one by one, but if you'd like, we're going to do 20 dams, ponds, and irrigation facilities. The creek will be reformed. And finally, I want to tell you that we took Antalya as a pilot's zone. We are mobilising three of the major action plans by the Forest Service, the General Directorate for Desertization and Anti-Erosion and the DSI General Directorate in Antalya. In particular, the upper basin control systems have begun, especially for keeping the rain in the upper basins, above the creeks. We've had a massive mobilization of both treeing, mera reclamation, and the DSI in the upper part, creating dams, flood traps. It's our second campaign for erosion control. And we're doing a study to reduce floods, keep rain on the land, by making green belt wooding around the dams and ponds. And I'd like to stress that to you in particular. The DSI has already started working in Antalya. In this regard, in the coming weeks, I will go to Antalya and follow the work in its place. I thank you all very much, my respects, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0008par0053	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Sevim Savarer, who asked for the appointment of Organ Transport Week. Here you go, Mr. Fighter.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0009par0058	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book pledge on November 3rd, 9th. I hereby salute your delegation. After one person's free will and medical life ended, it is called organ donation, allowing tissue and organs to be used for treatment for other patients. Today, transplants such as heart, lungs, kidneys, pancreas, small intestines, bone marrow, skin, cornea can be performed. There are a total of 119 transplant centers in our country, 63 of which are kidneys, 38 of which are livers, 12 of which are heart and 6 of which are pulmonary centers. Organ tissue transplant services in our country are carried out under the Law on Organs and Tissues No. 2238, Organ and Doku Transport Services regulations and instructions issued under this regulation. In Ankara, the Ministry of Health established the National Centre for Organ and Doku Nakli Co-ordination in order to ensure that organ donation and transplants are more methodical, and in nine districts, organ and tissue transplants have established regional coordination centres, and have also determined the municipalities of these centers. In addition, as of April 2013, information on organ donors has been recorded and protected in a high-security manner, the Turkish Organ Donation Information System has been activated. Today, nearly 25,000 people in our country are waiting during organ transplants. Like all over the world, in our country, the need for transport is far less than expected. It's like this all over the world, and it's like this in our country. In European countries, 80 per cent of organ transplants are from cadavers, 20 per cent from living, while the opposite in our country is 75 per cent alive and 25 per cent from cadavers. Of course, the most important reason is that there is not enough organ donation. Therefore, increasing the number of organ donors and transplants is one of our Ministry of Health's primary goals, and extensive studies are being carried out. However, in some societies, sufficient organ donation is not provided because of the approach that the dead, religiously or more heavily, find it not appropriate to disrupt the integrity of the body. In the Supreme Council of Religious Affairs 6/3/1980 and Decision 396/13, the Islamic religion declared that organ donation was remiss when the proper conditions were met, that the Qur'an revealed that there were verses in the Qur'an and stressed the need to be paid for no payment for organs or tissue, and acted in mosques to increase organ donation in order to increase organ donation. In the Qur'an, there is a sign in the House of Maiden, verse 32, that whoever gives life to anyone will receive a reward as if he had given life to all mankind. Studies show that the best way to inform the community about organ donation is by the media and the Internet environment. The media's right direction on organ donation will significantly increase the rate of organ donation in schools, the awareness of public awareness of organ donor programmes in television programmes, and the education of organ donors in schools. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation with the idea that none of us, hopefully, will need an organ donation.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0010par0068	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0011par0069	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0010par0070	Just a moment, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0012par0072	Mr. Tanal will make a brief statement on the matter, and then...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0010par0073	Mr. Sky, it's not our way, you know. You have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0013par0078	Okay. My request is to draw attention to two issues, Mr. President. Mr. President, just eight years ago, from former prime ministers, former presidents of the Republican People's Party and President of the Democratic Left Party, Bulent Ecevit, died on November 5, 2006. Its political identity, personality, life, Turkish politics, and in particular, the revolutionary concepts that they gave to workers, narrow-incomes, and boards, are one of the most likely personalities of Turkish politics. In his life, wealth was never a place, and his life was built on humility. And today, as we go through the days of our need for the humble life of the late Blunt Ecevit, I remember him once again with mercy. I suppose all of our council members share my feelings. The second issue, November 5, 1934, is the founding anniversary of the State Theatres. Eighty years ago, the ranks that founded the republic purposed that all our citizens living in Turkey would benefit from all kinds of art, and for that purpose, they established State Theatres, and Turkey turned its course to modern civilization, painting, art, and fine arts. However, the previous day, we learned from Ankara's most distinguished scenes that Akun and Shinasi scenes had been sold. That information we've learned from the press hasn't been denied today. The Akun and Shinasi scenes in Çankaya are institutions in Ankara where everyone can easily reach and, as far as capacity, will have very serious services to the theatre, cinema and culture. It is unfortunate that 80 years after the establishment of the State Theatres, 80 years after the establishment of State Theatres for the purpose of caring for art, the scene of Akun and Shinasi was shut down in the mentality that came today. If such an application does not exist, it would be extremely helpful for the public to find out the truth, who, what price, what kind of tenders it is done. If it's really sold, being involved in such an unfortunate conflict has first hurt me as an art lover and as an Ankara MP. I would like to share with you this opportunity the concerns of our society.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0014par0083	Thank you, Mr. Sky. We pray for God's mercy to Bulent Ecevit.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0015par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0014par0088	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0015par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman Sevim Warker...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0014par0091	Mr. Tanal, if you could tell me what you wanted to say first...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0015par0092	That's what I'm trying to say, if you'll excuse me. I want to thank them for bringing up the matter of this transplant. But the information they're giving is a false public knowledge...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0014par0094	Just a moment, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Tanal, word off the agenda is always...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0015par0096	I'm finishing, I want one sentence.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0014par0097	One second, sir, one second... Look, you always remind me of the Civil Code. The Articles 59 and 60 are very clear and clear, and you are a member of parliament who knows the Civil Code very well. Please...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0015par0098	My dear President, but you see what I'm about to say...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0014par0099	But what are we going to do about it? Okay...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0015par0100	It was over by now, so just so we're clear.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0014par0101	It may be over, it may not be over, but the Civil Code is open, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0015par0102	Mr. President, I'd like to speak in accordance with the Civil Code decrees, and the point is this: Mr. orator said: "Europe is 80 percent taken from cadavers and 75% from Turkey. The main reason is inadequate donations. The main reason is the lack of law rather than insufficient donations. We have brought this law, the example of Belgium, that is, if the person has the power to appeal, if he did not forbid the organ donating, it is supposed to be forgiven. We have brought the proposal of the law, which was rejected in the General Assembly. Mr. Tülin is here, doctor, professor, doctor; I consulted him. I mean, really, it's the bleeding wound of our society. Please, let's discuss this law with the Minister of Health, as a matter of fact, so that our citizen who's waiting for an organ transplant can benefit from it. But that's the big problem because the General Assembly rejected these legal laws. I thank you again.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0014par0104	Yes, we thank you for this enlightening information. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly While sheep farming can be done in all parts of our country, geography, especially in Central, East and Southeast Anatolia, is more suitable for this upbringing. Therefore, the important part of sheep's existence is located in these areas. With its meat, milk, and its skill, it provides a significant benefit to the economy of the region. Due to the use of bows, mera and agricultural land in sheep feeding, except for shepherd's expenses, because of the almost zero-food cost of our country's products, the removal of our country's people from the sector, which God has given to its people in time and time, when it is useless, living as nomads, milking, tissues, and soils that have been acquired by the economic benefit of the people of the region, in the last 20 years, because it has been an important part of its well-being, and because of the terror activities in the region, it has been a habit to be removed from the country and to the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village of the village. For some reason, our country has suffered a significant decline in the presence of sheep. As seen from the study of the table above, the 23 million,500,000 head reduction in the presence of sheep during the last 25 years is a critical step that must be quickly corrected in terms of our animalism. If 23 million,500,000 head sheep were today in our country today, 10 million head lambs of sheep of this kind and 4 million head deform sheep would be given to the slaughter, and 7 YTL/kg at the lowest rate of 20 kilograms of karkas weight, for 1,960 million YTL a year, In view of this amount of sheep's assets, 10 million of them are healthy for four months, and 600 million l of milk per sheep per day for the price of 240 million YTL milk per year, with an account of 0.5 l milk per sheep. In total, a total of 2 billion 317 million,500,500,000 YTL, or another statement, 1 US dollar in the free market of 02/11/2006, will be evaluated by $1.454 million and 899,000 U.S. dollars. It is a simple but important fact that this amount is lost because of God's failure to use grass, which we have not been able to evaluate in our country in recent years, that we have no part in its creation. The withdrawal of $1.5 billion from the region is the most important factor of migration from this region to the west. The value lost in the country's economy is 3-4 billion dollars, given the fact that the suburbs are growing and the cost of urban services is increasing. EU countries and the United States once considered sheepmaking and sheep production to be less important, while recently sheep and goat meat have been particularly important to sheepry because of its health benefits and the taste of palate is better. In order to promote the breeding of sheep in our country, produce, export, state ownership of this resource, the problems and solutions related to this, to explore and support ways, to make administrative and institutional legal arrangements, we propose and launch a parliamentary investigation on the basis of Articles 104, and 105, which are based on the basis of Articles 104, and 105. 1) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 6) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] 9) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] [[Sinop]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] 17) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 18) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] 22) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 24) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[Mersin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the reasons for the increase in this abnormal and high levels of grass and hay -- the food used in animal feeding -- in our country -- and to determine problems and solutions in this regard, to investigate ways to support, to make administrative, institutional and legal arrangements, we propose that a parliamentary study be opened, based on the reasons referred to below by Articles 104 and 105. 1) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Sinop]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 12) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 14) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] 19) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 21) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] 23) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[Mersin]] As it is known, between 2007 and 2008, there was a major global crisis, especially in agriculture and livestock, as a result of a severe drought across the world and our country. In this process, the price of food prices and food products has increased by over 100 percent in a very short time. While many countries have increased agricultural support, bait support in more than 10 pens has been narrowed down as both quantity and coverage in our country. Because the supports are not increasing, the manufacturer has been withdrawn from the production of bait plants. The bait price went up when the feed production didn't go up. However, the price of milk has seen the lowest price in the history of the Republic and the milk/yem parite. Today, the livestock industry continues its alarm. All bait raw materials have increased prices between 30 per cent and 50 per cent. Rough bait prices have increased by 400-500 per cent in hay and 100-150 per cent in clover. There have been sudden and extreme spikes in the price of bait and hay. The hay bale, which is $3, is $20, and it's hard to find. On the contrary, milk prices have been receiving from 80 or even 70 cents in some areas since 10 months. The desperate manufacturer, however, has to take his stud cows to the slaughter with tears in their eyes, as they did in 2008 today. Each time your ministry said that we were the 1st in Europe and the 7th in the world and that we were aiming for the first five, the stables were not left with grass and hay today. Let alone the bait, which is being done one more time today, is being researched in ways to import grass and hay. There's a truth the world accepts in efficient livestock. I mean, a cow has to feed itself, its cub and its owner. A liter of milk and 3 pounds of bait should be available. If this balance goes off, the manufacturer won't be able to get out. In our country these days, you can't get a pound of hay, let alone a liter of milk. The rapid increase in the price of brute bait has begun to bring our livestock to the point of collapse. Even the hay has increased by 400-500 percent, even though it has no nutritional value from the food raw materials that make up the largest share of the business's monthly expense pens. If no emergency measures are taken by the state, the brute bait deficit will continue to grow, prices will increase, and the manufacturer will continue to be devastated. The price of raw material, which is the cornerstone of animalism, reveals the veracity of this situation. Therefore, the Earth crop office must be assigned to provide food and hay. Today's milk base price is determined without any account. There's no way the desperate milkmaker can say, "I'm not paying for it," since he doesn't have a chance to save his milk. But the strong industrialist can easily say that if you don't give it to him at this price, he won't take it. Therefore, if the manufacturer is truly wanted to be supported, the price of milk must be determined by the state so that it can buy one litre of milk and 1.5 kilograms of feed, and the manufacturer must be guaranteed price stability. Otherwise, the state must intervene in the market and purchase the milk at its own price. He should be able to hide the milk by turning it into powdered milk. He should do that not with subcontractors, but with his own dairy-dust factories. Because milk and meat are too important strategic products to be left to free market economies. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Every year, increased suicides in Turkey have reached alarming levels. According to data released by the Turkish Statistical Agency (TÜİK), about 33.3 per cent of men who commit suicide are under the age of 30, while 52.3% of women are under the age of 30. THE TİK's research has revealed that suicides throughout Turkey have been increasing steadily since 2007. In particular, the suicide rate of the adolescent population is alarming. In 15- and six-year-old groups, the suicide deaths of boys increased by about 85 percent compared to the previous year. Given the same years, the suicide rate of girls in 15- and six-year-old groups has also increased by about 30 percent. According to research results, when suicides in Turkey have been reduced to age groups, it appears that the maximum death is in the young population between the ages of 15 and 24 years. Fifty-two percent of young people committed suicide by hanging themselves, resulting in a study followed by chemical and suicides. In all the research done so far, the number of women who commit suicide is more than the male population, and it is a very important situation to address. Women between the ages of 15 and 24, suicide rates have been increasing steadily since 2008. The rate of increase is alarming. According to psychologists, a person in adolescent psychology tends to commit suicide more freely than other adults. According to research results from people in the middle and early age of suicide caused by disease, adolescents may attempt suicide as a result of psychological disorders or short-term depressions, without any physical illness. According to experts, the middle age group is often seen as a cause of suicide for adolescent groups that seem to be very normal to people. The Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy are taking important steps to prevent the number of suicides that have been increasing since 2007, especially young suicides. The fact that young people have easy access to expert pedagogs and psychologists will reduce the number of events. In order to determine the reasons for young people's suicidal tendencies and to address these problems, we respectfully submit to the establishment of a research commission in accordance with Article 98, Article 104, Article 105 and Article 105 of our Civil Code. [[40s.]] [[Ankara]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] [[Scholarship]] 9) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Manisa]] 16) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 17) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 18) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Mughle]] 20) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] 22) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[Mersin]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's 5/11/2014 Wednesday (Today), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. On 17 October 2014, the group was awarded by Idris Baluken, the vice president of the group (867 rows no. On October 9, 2014, an armed attack on the Bingol County Police Commissioner and his team and two hours later the search of the vehicle at the entrance of Youth County was proposed to be read in the same joint presentations in Wednesday's unification of the parliamentary research motion to be submitted to the Turkish Grand National Assembly for the information of the General Assembly. The People's Democratic Party Group has asked for a word in favour of the group's proposal, İdris Baluken, Bingol MP. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0016par0334	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the group proposal we made on October 9, 2014 regarding the two fatal events that took place in Bingol. I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to address the AK PARTY Group immediately, because we've brought this research motion before, they voted against it, and therefore there was no commission. Now, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, I want your friend here to explain to us from here why they voted against this motion. Let me read to you the reason for this immediately: on October 9, 2014, in the province of Bingol, there was an armed attack on the Chief of State and his team, and two hours later at the entrance of the Youth County, in search of a vehicle that had been scanned, assassination, and the planning of the perpetrators of the judicial executions and the aims they've set up, and we're offering a commission as a clear motive for these two events that have been said to have been a role in the process of solving the solution process, in order to prevent all of these forces -- and all other organizations outside the state and state -- in order to prevent provocations and massacres. Now, we're waiting for you to come up here and tell us why you're opposed to this clear and clear reason, which of these purposes you're opposed to, without ever saying a word. Look, two weeks ago, when I brought this motion to the General Assembly, I said that both events were unconnected and planned by the same dark center, but that there were forces that wanted to bring the country into chaos, especially the solution process, and that all data, all the information that we received from all the locals, was this way. I've invited MOBESE records, phone records, used vehicles, ballistic analysis of weapons, whatever data there is about them, the AK PARTY Group, to explain this data. Unfortunately, at that time, these data were not disclosed from here, and the group's proposal was rejected by trying to make it look like these two events were linked. Look, we brought you back the data you didn't bring. Here is a ballistics review report dated 12/10/2014 by the Diyarbakır Criminal Police Laboratory Laboratory, and this ballistics review report -- since it's technical phrases -- a document that shows that the weapons used in both cases are not related to each other, that the two incidents were shared, and that the assassination of the police director was also removed into the archive of undetectable events. So the document that you didn't bring here -- the criminal ballistics document was released a month ago -- it's all clearly written down. Now, what this document shows is that it's transparently revealing the painting from our point of view. There are two incidents on October 9th in Bingol, one of which was an assassination against the Chief Constable and his team, and the second one was a judicial execution on the Youth Bridge, which took place one hour and 20 minutes after that. We don't know who did both cases, we don't know the perpetrators of either of them, we don't know what dark centers either of them are planning. So, what statements you've made about this incident, what statements you made yesterday, I'd like to submit it to the General Assembly's information again. Look, right after the incident, we received a number of statements from the government and the AK PARTI authorities at the highest level that said that those who shot the Chief Constable had been punished. First of all, we don't know what concrete data, what concrete document, what important information Prime Minister Davutoglu was talking about, but right after the incident, he was saying: "It was a very low attack. During the night, we followed developments with the Home Secretary. The perpetrator terrorists were punished within an hour or two. The perpetrators said they were punished, but the Criminal Review Report says the perpetrators you mentioned had nothing to do with it. Shouldn't the Prime Minister now be apologizing to the people of Bingol, to all the people of Turkey? There's only one explanation here, and it's full of problems from beginning to end. Is it something that the Prime Minister is in charge of, in the field of duty? If there's a criminal element involved in an incident, we believe that the authority to punish is in the jurisdictions, as we do in all legal states. There is no trial, there is no concrete data, there is no concrete evidence, there are no perpetrators involved in this case, but the Prime Minister says we have punished them in the way they deserve. There are also statements made by the President. He says, "You will pay the price of a low attack, and we have paid the price." Who'd you make pay? You made people who had nothing to do with it, and you executed them without a trial. Do you have the authority? Are you in court? Are you a judge? You're not, but you don't have a document, you don't have information, you don't have data, you go out there and you make that statement. In the same way, the Minister of the Interior, four of our citizens lost their lives in the incident in Bingol, thanks to him, has been taken over by five terrorists. Look, there's a lot of panic about this. We immediately asked the Ministry of Justice to appoint a delegation, and they did not do so. We've brought a motion to investigate the council, we've asked for a commission, and you haven't. Two things you've done: First, you've issued a confidentiality order in court, and second, you've brought a gag order. Why did you do all this? Because you're in a state of panic because you're facing two violent incidents, two unsolved cases, and you're afraid to face it. Now, in that case, yesterday, the defendant, Erhan Shenyeva, who survived this judicial execution, was arrested. He's still giving false information on this, and he's the country's Prime Minister and Home Secretary. It's not acceptable. See what he says, Mr. Prime Minister: The wanted person who attacked our Chief Constable and our security guards was caught today. Now, I don't want to say lying, but look, the crime lab filed a report a month ago that the people who were in that vehicle had nothing to do with the assassins. Again, as of yesterday, the Home Secretary says that the third person wanted in connection with the attack on the Chief Constable of the Republic has also been arrested. These developments show the sensitivity of our government that no crime will remain unsolved. Is there such false information, misleading information? This is the man you mentioned, the one who was caught, the one you executed without a trial, the one who was accidentally saved from the vehicle you gave the order to. The information, the documents, the data, it's very clear that the two events have nothing to do with each other. So we're dealing with a grim picture of the two dark events. This event is being tried by the EC PARTY by government officials to cover it up and connect it with each other, and in some ways, this cover-up operation is being tried to justify these executions. It's an open call: if there's nothing you're afraid of, avoiding, afraid of, come and approve this motion, we'll set up a commission together. I'd like to find out who did the two assassinations and the unjust executions in Bingol, and bring them here and present them to the knowledge of the House. And in terms of the solution process, and in terms of our country's democratic future, I'm saying that the Bingol events will act as if it were a biopsy and bring us the big picture, the big picture. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0017par0349	Thank you. People's Democratic Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Oğuz Khan Koksal, Kırıkkale MP. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0018par0353	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the Constitution's motion to open Parliamental Research on October 9, 2014, on the grounds of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th Amendment, and on the basis of Articles 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. I salute you all. Dear President, before we get into this matter, we'd like to return to October 6th, 7th, if you'd like to refresh your memory, even though it's very short. What happened on October 6th, 7th? On October 6, 7th, the HDP called out to the public on behalf of what we call the "Ayn Al-Arabah" or "Kobani" (Ayn Al-Kobani) or "Kobani" (Ayn Al-Abani) on October 6, 7th, and in many counties of our cities -- around 35 -- public buildings, state offices, and so on -- were completely looted, and over 2,000 buildings were destroyed, and a lot of millions of wealth were destroyed. Above all, 42 of our citizens have lost their lives. So we need to evaluate it starting here, and a statement, such as blocking the solution process, has just been said by our friend. Is it actually blocking the process of solutions, or is it trying to put the solution process at a dead end, encourage the public to go out on the street and destroy Vandalism on the street? I'd like to bring this to the attention of the public. In fact, in order to talk about this, I'm here to present to you once again the people who have done the 6-7 October events and those who have done so much damage should apologize to the public. Because friendship, brotherhood, and one of the most important concepts that the AK PARTY has ever dealt with from the day it was founded is to bring it together at the point of friendship and brotherhood without looking at anything. Now, these events are in the process of damaging it, but let me put it this way, no matter what they do, they won't be able to damage the solution process. Because the solution process is not a project for people living in a part of our country, but for 75 million people living all over our country, but for 75 million people looking at each other with friendship, love, respect, and hope for the future. No matter who tries to stop the AK PARTY, we're going to do this project, and we're going to embrace people, and I want to continue by saying it here once again. Dear President and members of lawmakers, we said the Kobani events. They went through a lot of trouble as an excuse for the Kobani events, and they blamed our country for the Kobani events; it's not happening; it's not happening. It's like Turkey doesn't look at its people, but they didn't come back and say, "We've opened our arms to 200,000 people, and we're providing them with all the necessary things. This is a very important event, and we didn't pick 200,000 people when they came in; we didn't say, "Come on, this one, this one, this one, this one; we opened our arms to the people who ran away from there." On the other hand, about 1,700,000 live in our Syrian country. So we, the Republic of Turkey, support and help these people, regardless of their origins, especially because they're human. So let me rephrase this: In contrast to what we've been told, we've had all kinds of support, and I want to express it, and for that, especially, I want to condemn those events here once again. In fact, I'd like to give you a little bit of a number again that's going to cause the memory to be damaged by five Aprils -- but there's not even time to be disabled yet. 42 people lost their lives in the 35 counties, including one deputy chief of police and one captain who has just been told that I'll be there in a few minutes -- which has been proposed. Also, our 139 security guards have been injured, many of our citizens have been injured; more than 800 buildings have been destroyed, more than 200 schools have been destroyed, police buildings, Kızılay blood centers and private buildings; 177 official vehicles have become unustainable, and over 1,000 people have been taken into custody and 58 have been arrested. So some dark forces were told a little while ago -- they turned the country into a state of war, they turned it into a fire, and when we said it, who is the culprit here, why is it? First they have to sit down and think about it, and first they have to sit down and put their hands on their heads and say, "What did we do?" I want to express it here one more time. Dear President, our esteemed deputies, of course, after these events, our security forces there, our security forces in various places, were scattered throughout the entire area, as always, and our people there were able to control and share their problems, their sufferings, everyone was scattered into the field. That's what happened in Bingol. Our Bingol Police Commissioner is taking his assistants with him, and several police officers are with him, all together, whose houses have been burned down, whose shops have been destroyed, or destroyed, especially by pointing out the dots.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0019par0358	There's not a single destroyed shop there.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0018par0359	...the PKK militants and PKK sympathizers who have done these things, meaning that the citizens should be relieved of their destruction, that the police commissioner and his team, who went out there to visit him and power him, were shot with long guns from behind, our Deputy Chief Constable is a martyr, a martyr, our Chief Constable is severely injured, and our Chief Constable is with a police officer. Now, we need to look at it from here. A police commissioner and his team, who ran there without fail to make any sacrifices to do their duty, were shot in the back with a long barrel of guns, shot in the back, shot in the back, shot in the back, and wished for God's mercy again here.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0019par0360	What does the report say? Answer the report, report.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0018par0361	By God, our Chief of Police is getting better and better every day, and I want to express it here. Of course, as with other incidents in 35 provinces, our prosecutors, our republic's prosecutors, our law enforcement agencies are investigating the perpetrators and investigations. But, when you look at it, in a radio conversation between them, it says between the PKK: "Don't actually take the shooting, we did, but don't take the responsibility. Now, come here, the dark forces are being done somewhere else. The dark power is not dark, it's not open power or power, it's open enemy. They've been processed by the PKK, and hopefully our security forces will do as they please. Ha, the Republic of Turkey is a state of law, and it has made these investigations easier by making many democratic changes, starting with the process of resolving, which has now proven that it is the democratic state of law, and that it is the goal, by its work that suits the law state the most and wants to obey it. Right now, our republic's prosecutor is investigating the case, and some perpetrators have been arrested, and I can't say that point here, because there's a gag order in court, but I'll tell you one more perpetrator has been arrested, he's been testified.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0019par0362	Not at all; you're lying and giving false information, not at all!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0018par0363	The court will decide whether it's relevant, so we can decide whether or not you can decide.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0019par0364	Yeah, you're the police commissioner, there are criminal reports. It's a shame!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0018par0365	What I'm saying is that one of the perpetrators has been captured and brought to justice. Now he'll be investigated by the prosecution, by the court, and then he'll show up in detail, whatever it is. But what I'm saying is, there's no cover-up, there's no cover-up. If it's being tried to cover it up, I think it's in the best interest of the public to consider the matter of our fallen Deputy Chief of Police and our Chief of Police, if that's what the public thinks, that instead of apologizing to public shame, it's the people who are trying to shut it down in the face of dark forces like this. But I want you to know that the Republic of Turkey is a state of law, and it will never, ever allow lawlessness, and, of course, public order is an event at the top of everything else. But the public order... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Inside, we will follow the solution process to the end as the EC PARTY, and we are determined to follow it, and no one can prevent it, and those who will prevent it are responsible for history. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0020par0371	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0021par0372	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0020par0373	If you'll excuse me, he's been picking on our group for killing 40 people by calling for a street.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0021par0374	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0022par0376	Aren't you responsible for the dead?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0023par0377	You're responsible!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0022par0378	Aren't you responsible for the dead?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0023par0379	You're responsible!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0022par0380	You're calling people to the street.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0024par0381	Mr. New, please...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0023par0384	If you have something, you can talk here. Don't do what you always do. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, now of course, I don't really know what to answer. I've submitted a criminal investigation, ballistics report, dated October 12th. A clerk who was a police commissioner didn't use a single sentence about this report here. He's still trying to establish a connection between the two cases where we caught the perpetrators. Look, let's make a photocopy and send it to you. You've been a police commissioner for years, don't you trust the reports of these institutions? If you trust the false information that comes to you, if you don't trust the reports of these institutions, we have nothing to say to you. Look, on the other hand, we've also submitted a motion to investigate these Kobani protests. Come on, let's get out of here and take a look at the whole thing. We say that in these Kobani protests, the planners of destruction, killing, violence, and all of these events are the two fatal events in Bingol. We speak so clearly, so confident. For one thing, in these Kobani protests, the people did not go out on the call of HDP. There was already a people on the street, and the HDP had already called, but they never called for destruction, violence. Therefore, the curfew is a prerequisite of the HDP's call, but the withdrawal occurred with HDP's calls for common sense, pointing out where the country would go. Look, why were there deaths in these cases? Look at him, look at the cause of the deaths, the chronology. The first death was the death of a 24-year-old boy named Hakan Baksur with a police bullet in Varto. Again, on October 7th, the killings began along with three others who lost their lives in Kurtalan, in the fire of the Hamdi Caner rangers. We're thinking about looking into where these deaths started, where they started, how they were triggered. Is there a more obvious call than that? Of those who have lost their lives, the people you have already blamed are our people. I'm not looking for goodwill so I don't have to see that this plan doesn't come into play on purpose. If you're sincere, come, give me your blessing, I say we investigate both the Bingol events and the Kobani events. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0025par0391	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0026par0392	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0025par0393	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0026par0394	I made a promise to correct one thing: I was not a police commissioner, I was a Governorate and Police Department for years. I've been promised to fix it.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0025par0395	Thank you. People's Democratic Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal Ali Riza Ozturk, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0027par0402	Mr. President, there are some incidents going on in Turkey. As a result of each incident, the political government, the Justice and Development Party, is constantly trying to run the country by blaming others, blaming the opposition, leaving power on its own. Now, speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party, our former Chief of Police, whom I respected, was so full of contradictions that he said, "Sir, don't cover things up in Turkey." I mean, I'm not going to cover it up, I'm not going to cover it up as the opposition party MP or the HDP won't. Yes, sir, Turkey is run by the Justice and Development Party. If it's not gonna be covered up, you're not gonna cover it up. Well, who are you telling? Sir, he's going to apologize. So it's over with the people who did it apologizing? If the country were ruled by apologies or consciences, there would be no rules, there would be no laws. I mean, do you realize what you're saying, Mr. Chief Constable? No one can stop us from fighting terror. Yeah, who's trying to stop you? President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu preventing you from fighting terrorism. I don't suppose you're aware of the events of the past year. If Turkey is unable to maintain its own law today, law is underfoot in the streets, if it's bent and bent, if the state of Turkey can't control its own streets, then it's the power that rules the country. Now, I mean, let's really stand up to terrorism here. You expect us to approve the police murdering innocent people? If Turkey is really a state of law as you say it is, then you can't judge how to fight terrorism in the state of law against terrorism as a policeman; you have to consider it as a parliamentary member of a state of law. The police don't punish criminals. If there's been a massacre at the Bingol Police Department, even police officers of the Police Department can't punish those who committed this massacre. The task of the security forces is to capture them alive and bring them to justice, deliver them to justice, and give them independent courts as a result of their trial. Anti-terrorism must be fought within the law, followed by law. While fighting terrorism in the democratic law state, one hand is tied to the state's hand. Now, sir, does a terrorist have the right to human rights? Of course you do. So a man who commits a crime has a right to human rights. You can't say that as a cop, but I say it as a lawyer. Whatever came into this country came from being a police state, a military state. You've turned the country into a police state, if it had been a state of law, there wouldn't be so many darknesses in Turkey's past, there wouldn't be perpetrators, there would be tortures in the police corners. In this country, tortured police chiefs have been tariffed, honored, soldiers honored, promoted. The people who were taken into custody were vaporized in custody, disappeared. What have the Mothers of the Saturdays gathered in Galatasaray, Istanbul since 1995, Mr. General Manager? What are they screaming about? They're looking for their missing offspring in custody in that police department you're in charge of. They couldn't even find their graves. Is a person taken into custody in a democratic law state missing? Do people get killed in torture? Now, on the one hand, the claim to democratization, while still not to judge things with the head of the police.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0028par0407	Who was killed by torture, Ali Riza Abi? Where did you get that information?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0027par0408	Now, Yilmaz Bronze, here's what you said. Ten times in this country, we've submitted a motion to investigate the perpetrators in this Parliament, to expose those responsible, to bring them in as group motions. Every time, you said it had to be investigated. In some, you said, "Time is not available." Some said, "My life is now in June, so let's all bring it together after the holidays. We've submitted a parliamentary research proposal for their mothers on Saturday. At the time, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan told his mothers on Saturday, Berfu Ana. He said, "Yes, we want this matter investigated, too, if the opposition supports it." The next day, I submitted a motion to investigate Congress, but it was rejected by your vote.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0029par0409	Bravo!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0027par0410	There's a record of what people say here, what the AKP people say. I mean, words fly away, but what they say, what they say, what they write, what they write, they don't lie, what they say, they don't lie, they don't lie, they don't lie, they don't lie. Today's President, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, spoke in Diyarbakır on September 3, 2010, about the unsolveds and said they should be investigated, but here you voted against the motions. You're a member of the legislature. You're not a member of the government. In the state of democratic law, you don't always have to say that everything the government does is right. I believe that many of our friends from the Justice and Development Party support exactly what I say. But just because we've carried the dignity of the ruling party doesn't mean we can defend them when the government doesn't do what it's supposed to do, my dear friends. Now, the incident in Bingol... you are in power, the police force is in your hands. Look it up, look it up. But really, if the people who were killed there were not the ones who were involved in that massacre, as the recent findings suggest, then who will be responsible, Mr. Congressman, who will be responsible? Now, yesterday, reports show that those people who were killed were not at the scene of the crime. And again, yesterday's tests show that those bullets were clearly not from those people who were killed. Now, if those people really are innocent, isn't it a sin to slaughter them? You, look, you've put aside those claims of democratization. You have now turned your course, your course. You have deviated from the state of law. You're going straight to the police state. You're trying to build a police state in this country. And immediately after the incident, the Prime Minister said, "They've been punished." Could such understanding be possible? Is that an understanding? What democratic legal state's MP, the prime minister, suffered his punishment after he slaughtered the people the police were tasked with arresting on charge of crimes? Maybe this would be nice to a community. But you say the process of peace, in the process of peace, you accuse our Republican People's Party of obstruction of peace, but on the other hand, you use a language that is completely incompatible with the peace process. The language of power is not the language of peace, friends, but the language of power is violent. I don't think a legal state should have murders left unsolved in its past. We lived in Turkey, a city full of unsolved murders. I think our grandkids should live in a democratic law state, where our children's past is lit up, and there's not a single dark spot left. I believe that's our duty as Parliamentaries. I believe my fellow lawmakers at the Justice and Development Party feel the same way, and I think they should fight against them for the rapid removal of this political power from the police state. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0030par0420	Thank you. People's Democratic Party has asked against group proposal Hilmi Bilgin, Sivas MP. Here you go, Mr. Scholar.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0031par0424	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the group proposal given by the People's Democratic Party. I hereby salute your high council. First of all, our dear, dear Kırıkkale MP, who spoke before me, has technically briefed you on the details of the matter. I'm just going to tell you a few things briefly. For one thing, both judicial and administrative investigations have been launched and will be carried out meticulously on October 9, 2014 and on October 6, 7th before that. May our holy nation be assured that in the days of the AK PARTY government, there was no dark event, and no event was lost in the dark zones. Hopefully, this will come out in full reality as a result of the investigations launched by the administrative and judicial authorities. The EC PARTY is a government that has cared about the fight against terrorism from the day it came to power as of November 3, 2002. At the point of counterterrorism, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and current Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu have been fighting terrorism while the governments in charge of today's government have done the necessary fight against terrorism within the law on the basis that Turkey is a legal state and will continue to do so. And the solution process that began during our governments... on the balance of freedom and security, with the understanding that the solution process is not an alternative to public order... we will conduct the solution process... and we will continue the fight against terrorism in the state of law. At this point, with the support our nation has given us, hopefully, we will make the country a brotherhood of 77 million. You know the agenda of the House, it's busy, it's going on. We had a law that was unfinished yesterday, and we need to break it today because we have university staff, academic staff, the laws that our nation has been waiting for. At this point, we believe that a forensic and administrative investigation into the motion for research has been launched, and the truth will be revealed as a result of this investigation. I hereby declare that we are against the group proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0032par0432	Thank you. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting Wednesday (November 5th 2014), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On 31 October 2014, the parliamentary research proposal for the investigation of the fatal mine accidents that have been followed in recent years by Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır, which we have given to the head of the TBM with 2014/1012 points (now) was proposed in the General Assembly Wednesday (November 5th 2014) to be held in a joint session today. The nationalist Movement Party has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal Mehmet Shandır, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0033par0449	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. We spoke yesterday, and today, as the National Movement Party Group, we feel it is necessary to bring you back to your attention, especially to express our views, our suggestions, regarding the accident in the coal mine, the recent mining accident in Ermenek. We demand a commission in accordance with the Civil Code. We have a commission, a commission called the Soma Commission. At the end of the month or so, Mr. President stated that he would report to you yesterday. But I don't think it's possible to say that this matter has been dealt with seriously enough, that it's been shown the necessary sensitivity. That's the expression of our General Assembly, that view on TV. Dear lawmakers, have you ever been to Ermenek? Does anyone know about Ermenek? Ermenek is a town in the middle of the mountains, about 120-150 kilometers to the province center, to the south, to the sea, to the land of Alania, 140 kilometers to Anamur, 110 kilometers to the mountains, lost. We have a beautiful county, a town where beautiful people try to earn their bread from the ground in those mountains, trying to earn their money from agriculture. A land where beautiful people live, with honor, honor, and honor, in the land where they were born, trying to feed their own children. Yesterday, I got a statement from a friend here, and Mother Spring says: "First they steal our bread, then they steal our labor, and then they take our lives. This is exactly the right thing to do. These people worked in the woods. These people are measured by blends, they're earned by the forest, and most of them are people who earn their living by making small farms in a land that's subject to erosion. There are no people in Ermenek who are old enough to go out because that land cannot feed that person. Those people are either going to study or become civil servants, and they're going to go abroad, and they're going to earn their child's livelihood. And there was no preparation, no training, no protection, like a minefield in front of our people, like a trap, like a death trap, that was the fate of our people. You know, there's winter out there now, it's probably in the negative degrees, but still, among the piles of that mine, the relatives of 18 people, their children, their wives, their mothers, their wives, they're trembling at the prospect of hearing a voice from below that cold, but what a pity, alas, that the Turkish Grand National Assembly is so interested in the matter. That's our main handicap. Dear MPs, it's not fate. It's been five and a half months since the Soma accident. I believe it was May 13th, five and a half months passed until October 28th. That's when we gave speeches, speeches. The people who run our state, the government officials, they said a lot of things. What happened? Since Soma, our miner, one, one, two, one, two, five, five, and our people who worked in the mine, have lost their lives. What precaution, who are we kidding? Dear lawmakers, it is the duty of the state to ensure the safety of its people first. If he can't secure his life, the state has no right to claim to be a state. Now, you can't call this fate. I don't want to read the Prime Minister's unfortunate statement, so it's fate, it's in the nature of it. So in 10 months, 1,600 work accidents have been lost in Turkey. We're going to be members of the European Union, we're up, we're up, we're up, we're up... three people died in Germany. Although the numbers are diverse, we are facing an unbecoming picture of Turkish shame, taking part in the 1st European part of the world at the point of Turkey's business accident, the 3rd part of the world. What are we doing? If we count, we're no more than 30. Is that what we care about? As the National Movement Party, I pray to God, who has been under that mine for ten days, that they may come out safe and sound. But I'm standing at the door of that mine, and I'm carrying here the screams of those old mothers, those women, those children, those old people, who are trembling in the cold. You can't solve this with this head; we can't solve this with this approach. Dear friends, as the bride-to-be Nationalist Movement Party, we, especially recently, have had traffic accidents... 20 people die all at once. Yeah, it's not even seen in Africa anymore, guys. There are work accidents in the heart of Istanbul, 10 people die. Tents burning at a construction site, 10 people dying. A time when human life was so cheap, believe me, I don't remember. In my opinion, as the National Movement Party, we consider this issue as a national issue of workers' health, human health, safety as a matter of national concern and what needs to be done by creating a common mind, building the institutions that need to be taken care of. Let's set up a commission with continuity in this Turkish Grand National Assembly. And I'd like to thank my friend who made this offer. But let's get serious about this, see me this way, we've talked about it, we've talked about it, we've talked about it, we've talked about it, we're talking about it, their blood won't stay on the ground like it did in the fight against terrorism. Dear MPs, this is indeed a matter of life, not only of these 18 people, but of the people who live in the valleys of Ermenek, and of those mountains, and of the valleys of Toros. Gravity, Bozyaka, Grape, Southern Yurt, Lower Ages, Yaylapazari, Golzacı, Kazancı, these villages and villages, and unfortunately, their livelihood, their livelihood, every family, at least one person, who works as many as 1,500 people in Ermenek, who provide the problems of these people from the mine, by creating a permanent common mind, an institution, to restore legislation... Mr. Unionist sitting in front of me, Mr. Süleyman, the Health and Safety Act, why didn't you object? How will human health be protected by a law that is not human in its center? How are we supposed to stop killing with job security, safety of the workplace, a law that guarantees the safety of the boss?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0034par0463	We've always said that.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0033par0464	It is a scream, the cry of the 18 souls that lie beneath the ground, in the southern part of Pamuk. I hope you'll hear it, you'll see these pains, and you'll never have these pains again, and I'll say it as a scream that you'll take the necessary precautions. I'm hoping you'll consider it, and I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0035par0467	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0036par0468	Mr. President, I'd like to hear from 69.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0035par0469	Why did he pick on you, Mr. Çelebi?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0036par0470	He asked me: "Why are you sitting in front of me as a unionist? Why were these laws not corrected when they came out? Why didn't you object? He teased me, so I want a word.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0035par0471	Did he mean you?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0036par0472	Yes, clearly, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0037par0473	Obviously, with a name.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0035par0474	I understand, but Mr. Çelebi. We're talking very well, so why are you interfering?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0038par0475	Mr. Süleyman wasn't a unionist when that law came out, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0035par0476	Here you go, Mr. Çelebi. Two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0039par0481	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear friends, I salute you with respect and love. Thank you so much for giving me this opportunity. In particular, Deputy Director Oktay Vural is a very live witness. When I was speaking from this bench, when I was contesting these laws, I even said that maybe there was one person dying as I speak here now. I was talking from this bench, and Oktay Vural got a call at that time, and one person died in the assembly yard.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0040par0484	That's right, we're all witnesses.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0039par0485	For him, our objections are very loud in the commission, after the commission... and we said: "If this law is passed, then the work killings will continue in Turkey. Let the people with a conscience now have another discussion of it, not once with their wallets, but with their consciences, if they really want to end these killings. We took that to the Supreme Court. I'm calling the Constitutional Court right now. So, the Constitutional Court is also responsible for the immediate dismissal of this application for the annulment of this law against the Constitution, which is contrary to international contracts, in order for these killings to end over the years. No one can watch these murders like this. So, as the Republican People's Party, we've moved this to the Constitutional Court, both in commissions and in Parliament, and in each article, we've resisted this clause repeatedly, using other articles as a justification; if you remember, at 3:00 a.m., at 4:00 a.m., this law came into effect. At that time, the killings continued in Turkey. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0041par0489	Thank you. Mr. Vural, your name was mentioned in the speech of Mr. Çelebi, but no teasing, was it not?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0042par0491	No, sir, we've got a visual.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0041par0492	Thank you. The nationalist Movement Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0043par0499	Mr. President, members of parliament, I'm here to welcome you again in connection with one of the things we've talked about most in this House, but we've never had any results. Just five and a half months ago, there was a huge disaster in Soma. For months, the country followed these events on all television screens, hundreds of comments, thousands of articles in the newspapers, but we turned around and went back to the same place. Again, there's been an accident in Ermenek, and for how many days, all of Turkey has been watching a lot of pain on TV screens, as if watching a series of movies, and no one can do anything about it. Dear friends, whether it's the death of ten workers from a construction site in Istanbul or the loss of their lives, whether it's the Soma incident or the Ermenek incident, when we put all this on top of it, the result is that there are mines all over the world, there are construction sites all over the world, there are workers all over the world, there are jobs accidents, mining accidents all over the world. So, what's abnormal? Here is the number of people who have died in business accidents in Germany in the last ten months; the number of people who died in Turkey is 1,600; he is the abnormal. There are mines in all the countries of Africa, and they also dig these mines out as ruthless imperialists, slave laboring Africans, but, no matter what, Turkey is the first in Europe, the third in the world. So we have a business security system far, far behind those countries in Africa, so that's what we need to discuss, dear friends. Why are we the 3rd in 220 countries around the world, and why are we the 1st in Europe in human deaths? Otherwise, I just told you -- it'll be all over the world, mines and constructions all over the world. The problem is that there's a system in Turkey that has a job, industry, construction, or mining system that doesn't pay attention to business security, to make more profit, to make more money than even the imperialists in Africa. That's the problem. So how do we solve this? Dear friends, perhaps the people here can't say this openly, but the businessmen out there are saying that if we take these measures, we'll already be able to put the capital on the cat, and we can't make money. So, I'm asking a question: one of the most important countries in the world today is Germany, especially in coal mines; so go to the German-Fransian border, the Ruhr Valley has been full of coal mines for hundreds of years. So, even though this Germany has taken so many precautions, how can it make so much profit, even though our capitalist businessmen have taken so many measures to upload the capital to the cat? Dear friends, the export of 56 Islamic countries is $900 billion. The export of 56 Islamic countries is $900 billion, and that 900 billion is 70 per cent of the $900 billion, and 75 per cent of the oil revenues. What do you mean? It's a proper production, nothing. He extracts water from the ground, he sells it, he calls it exports, and 56 of them add up to $900 billion. The exports of Germany, which we claim alone, are 950 billion dollars, alone. A Germany is exporting more than 56 Islamic countries, which means it's taking all its precautions properly, and as you all claim, these costs don't destroy it, as capitalist businessmen claim, and yet it can make money as an export champion in the world. Another problem, another issue, of course, I don't even want to get into it, but I have to, because it's no use telling people without a conscience. No gain is worth more than human life, but who listens to it, who listens to it, who practices it? There's no contact, so the problem, dear friends, is proper supervision, proper surveillance. Take out the best laws, and if you don't apply them, if you don't try to apply them, if you don't present them, then there's no point in them. So the bottom line is, the front, the end, the end, that's all; it's going to be properly followed, properly inspected. As a statement from a minister of ours, I close a mine, 50 people intervene, phone calls to make sure that mine doesn't go back into operation. So, who are these 50 people? I mean, who are 50 people? There's no evidence of any of this either. Dear friends, China, again, today is one of the world's leading countries on this mining issue. You see, even the measures in China, even the practices are ahead of us. The end, another great drama, happened the other day on the coast of the Bosphorus. It's about human trafficking. I came in two weeks ago, and I screamed about it from this stand. Two weeks ago. I've talked to him many times before that, I've made a motion to investigate Congress, and every time I've asked him, if only our friend who did the Security Directorate hadn't gone, the AKP MP had listened here: he comes from Mozambique, he comes from Somalia, he puts his last cow, his sheep, he sells 5-6000 euros in his pocket, he puts 56,000 euros in his pocket, he comes to Istanbul, he comes to Istanbul, he finds these human traffickers in Aksaray. I've asked that question at least ten times from this podium, and there's no answer. There's no answer. And right now, dear friends, these people's blood is on those responsible, sorry. Not only did Saddam Hussein take a gun and kill a man, but he didn't go and shoot anyone in the brain, but he did kill millions of people, and so did Hitler. Believe me, this blood is in your hands. And this got into a rotation: a human trafficking event every week, followed by 20 people dead, 50 people missing, 50 dead, 80 missing, three-quarters missing, women and children. Believe me, I'll say we've taken it for granted, but this is a black joke and a disgrace. There's no way you can accept that. In the same way, dear friends, in the last 6-7 October events, the government has spoken of them, and the scenes of three young people being killed in a sheltered home in Diyarbakir have been on TV channels for a month now, where they are dragged out of the balcony, someone being dumped from the balcony, someone being driven over by a car. So you guys know what happened? 200 people have been taken into custody in Diyarbakır, 40 people have been arrested, but not one of the people with their faces open to about 60 in this scene has been taken into custody, hasn't been arrested, do you know that? How many times have I spoken to the Diyarbakır Police Department, the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office from yesterday to today? Not one detention and not one arrest. Who are you hiding, who are you hiding? Here's Mr. Idris Baluken in the Bingol cases, he has all the information, all the documents, but there's still inconsolability. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit01spe0044par0514	Thank you, Mr. Tan. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0044par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 10th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The group's proposal according to the 19th Amendment of the National Movement Party is now incumbent on Balıkesir MP Namik Havutça. Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0045par0004	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have taken a pledge from the CHP Group on the proposal of the National Movement Party. I salute your high council. Yes, the calendar leaves showed May 13, 2014, while Turkey was shaken by a great disaster. Of course, the ruling ministers, the lawmakers, as usual, despised the incident -- initially the Manisa MP was talking about 17 deaths -- used to slowing down the community -- as in Ermenek, as in the same way -- by slowing down the work, covering it up, looking for the responsible themselves -- as if they hadn't had the Ministry of Energy for 12 years, as if they didn't have the Ministry of Labor, they started looking for the responsible elsewhere, such as they didn't. Sir, why didn't the unions train the workers? Mr. President, look what a heavy responsibility the unions have. However, it is necessary to ask, "Is there a union in Soma? Look, in the Soma Commission, I was the young boy whose 301 of our citizens died in that land were in Balıkesir, in the Warpe, in Bigadic, in Ivrindi. There were prayers in the battlefield -- the MPs of power, the President of the Religious Affairs -- that God would never cause us such pain again. Yeah, we're sorry too, and we also said, let's not do politics on death, on people's suffering anywhere. But shouldn't we ask: Was our dead 301 citizens' responsibility, political responsibility above the unions? Didn't the Minister of Energy have any responsibility? Didn't the Minister of Labor have any responsibility? Members of the government, as usual, have the habit of looking for the responsible elsewhere, for example, for the opposition, in other institutions. For example, we ask: unemployment is the main problem in Turkey. Aren't you responsible for this? Haven't you ruled this country in 12 years? Shouldn't you be making these laws here? Look, I'm talking to 200,000 of our students here who are watching us, watching TV, waiting for student forgiveness, and we've made the offer of the law, they've passed the commissions. Political power doesn't bring that law here. You ask us, "What is this law?" Again, I speak to the teacher who is waiting for 300,000 appointments: our bill is ready. The political power that prevents you from being appointed doesn't.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0046par0009	We've just got 40,000 casts out.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0045par0010	Look, we served with our friends on the Soma Commission. Dear lawmakers, as an MP who entered that mine twice, I said there as a human being after the mines in Soma, that people are going to die here every day. And we've learned from experts, they tell us, "Ya, Namik Havutça, what is this, that 300 mines in Turkey are already like this, even worse than this?" What does that mean, friends? I mean, if we have 301 citizens who died in Soma, in Lights, where the accident took place, that means the deaths will continue. He didn't? Look, I'm telling you, the accident took place on May 13th, May 15th, two days after the Soma disaster, Mehmet Aygün died in Zonguldak Kilimli. On 1 June, 17 days after the Soma disaster, Ali Çankay died in Afshin-Elbia. On June 3rd, 19 days after the Soma disaster, İbrahim Vennak was buried at the foot of Mt. Cudi in Şırnak province, where he lost his life. June 11th, 27 days after the Soma disaster... on June 18, 35 days after the Soma disaster, Karaman Ermenek was killed by 41-year-old worker Mustafa Yirik at the mine. July 11th, it went on. Business killings continue. Then, in the village of Karacas, in our village of Wartepe, one of our two children was lost, one of them survived, and one of our retired workers from the mine said to me: "Namuk Havutça, you are in that commission, you are going to study there - the son is being called back - shall I send my son there to work again?" I said: "No, don't send; don't lose your second son. Because the last time we were in that mine with our friends, we were in your pack. Every time we went in there, 301 people who died on the walls of that mine caved in, the deaths rang out in my ears, and I was deeply disturbed by my conscience. Friends, when we heard the expert at the mine, the key indicator of the cause of death in the disaster there was that all of the dead died of carbon monoxide poisoning. I asked, if those workers had oxygen masks on their back for an hour, if they had tubes, would these people die? No. A thousand dollars, friends, maybe even cheaper. If they had a thousand dollars worth of oxygen in their backs, against possible carbon monoxide poisoning when they entered the mine, those people would be alive today. Now, look, I suggest you offer us something concrete as a challenge. After this mining accident, after the question of Uncle Recep in Wartepe, my conscience was not at ease, and on June 13, 2014, I proposed a law, and I said, "For three months, let all mines be temporarily shut down. Work and work health will be suspended until arrangements are made to ensure the safety of our workers, their lives, their health, and the inspectors will be audited by neutral audit boards to be formed by trade unions and if there are shortcomings, the necessary measures will be taken, and they will not die. It's June 13, 2014. Look, my dear friends, I gave this to you at the request of your father in the village of Karaca, who lost a son, and we said in concrete: "For six months each time, the operations of the licensed mining establishments are stopped." The following temporary clauses have been added to Mining Law No. 3213. (ÇT/TK) If this offer had been taken into consideration and taken the necessary measures, controlled, those mines would have... It's still at that risk today, and it's still a shame our people are at risk of dying in those 300 mines. Look, it's still a law-enforcement proposal. The death of 301 of our workers... Of course, we can't bring their lives back, with no material power... we can't suffer the pain of their families. Our dear friends know that when we went to visit the house of the dying mining engineer, the wife of the mine engineer told us exactly as she cried every night when my husband came home, and he was complaining about lack of oxygen, carbon monoxide leaks and heats. Unfortunately, these measures were not taken. My fellow AKP MP friends, I believe that all of our friends working with the Soma Mining Commission have feelings like me, but the Minister of Labor's confession is no longer an excuse. A person's life, the lives of workers, occupational health and safety should not or should not be a subject that will be covered at the request of any of our relatives. If we don't take these precautions now, I'm afraid the same will continue if the murders in Soma have happened and continued. Therefore, we now wish for a peace Turkey, a Turkey of love, Turkey of brotherhood, where our workers are at the highest level of business health and safety measures, as well as in other countries of Europe. Is it too much to ask? This responsibility has been run by the AKP, which has ruled this country for 12 years. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0047par0021	Thank you. The People's Movement Party has asked to take a stand against the group's proposal, Muzaffer Citizen, Manisa MP. Here you go, Citizen.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0048par0025	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. First of all, I ask God's mercy for those who have lost their lives in all mining accidents. Work is being done to save our workers in Karaman, and we pray for them, too. About five and a half months have passed since the accident in Soma Eynez. A research commission on Soma mining accidents continues to work. The Turkish Grand National Assembly has made some changes in the bag of legislation, and we have worked hard to heal the wounds in Soma. Our government is also working on a package containing the arrangement for the mines. Some opposition representatives have expressed that Soma was beaten in the air by water, ignoring the facts and actions. Yeah, it's not being beaten, we're really working on it. Until today, our government has mobilized all its resources. The same campaign took place in Soma, and now the same works are being carried out in Karaman. First of all, the Social Security Agency did some work, and it's a monthly commitment to the relatives of 234 people. There have been regulations in the bag law on 67 people, including the right-owners, and the monthly commitment of each of our 301 miners to their relatives has been made. Families have been examined one by one, and studies on the needs of families are being carried out. In the AFAD account, $46.5 million was collected, and 301 miners were delivered equally to each family with 156,000 lira. In addition, studies on two homes to each family, each of which will be done by NGOs and by TOKI -- our governor has just held talks on the TOKI -- have been earmarked for land, and studies are being carried out to each of our 301 miners that will drop two houses on each of them. The wages of workers in closed furnaces have been guaranteed. Production has been halted in coal mines that have not taken the necessary measures regarding occupational health and safety. In Januarys, where production is halted by parliament, 5,700 people will be paid in four months, and they will continue to be paid even though they are not working. We've made some adjustments to the bag bill. All debts to the SGK have been wiped out by our workers there. Five years of insurance and 90 days of premium payment required for the monthly death sentence have been eliminated, and our miners' relatives have been given a death sentence. The requirement for the monthly bonding of the miners to their parents has been lifted, and their parents have been paid monthly. The public employment of one of the miners was carried out by the bag of laws. For all workers in the mining sector, the retirement age of 55 has been reduced to 50. The amount of wages for miners who extract linyit and stone coal will not be less than twice the minimum wage. The arrangement has been made. For all workers who work in the mining sector, unworking days will be included in the wear and tear as if they were working. It's also arranged in the law that underground miners can't get much work done. The removal of workers from work under the ground will only be done on grounds, without grounds, without grounds, so that the job guarantee will be strengthened. The annual vacation period for underground workers has been increased by four days. The ground term for miners has been arranged for 36 hours a week, six hours a day. But when we visited the mines, when we visited the miners in Soma, or in Zonguldak, there were demands for the daily work period to be arranged as seven and a half hours and five days per week, and our Commission is doing the necessary work. Hopefully, there will be these arrangements in the bag, in the next period's package. In addition, more than 2,000 citizens have benefited from this arrangement, with zero interest rates, twelve months free, thirty-six months of credit work initiated by the victim Soma tradesman KOSGEB. We also have a 300-bed state hospital in Soma, which is now the production rate of our hospital at 75 per cent. This will contain the burn unit as well as all the units. It was also adopted by the Ministry of Industry to establish an organised industrial zone in Soma. Again, our Ministry of Youth and Sports continues to work in its field, the Ministry of National Education on young people in this region. Yeah, accidents aren't new, accidents just don't happen in the last 12 years. Our goal is to minimize these accidents that have been going on since before, to reduce accidents to zero if possible. In 2010, a commission was set up for mining accidents. A law on occupational health and safety was then adopted in 2012. It's not only enough to make legal arrangements, but the inspections have to be done properly. Our Commission for Research on Soma Mine Accidents has been established. Our 17-member research commission for different political parties in our parliament continues its work. Soma, then Zonguldak, and again Soma, visited the furnace where the accident took place in Eynez, where we continued our study. I believe that our Commission will continue its work until the results that will shed light on what we think is in total darkness, satisfy the public conscience. No matter where it leads, no matter where it leads, a serious, decisive and thorough work will be revealed.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0049par0043	But it doesn't go anywhere.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0048par0044	Why did these accidents happen? Who has negligence and flaws? What measures and measures must we take to avoid similar suffering again? The Commission continues its work by interviewing all sector representatives, labour representatives, NGOs, experts, university professors, victims and officials. There is a high expectation of our Commission in public. The media, the victims, and their relatives, our people, have eyes on our Commission, and no one has any doubt that our Commission is continuing to work in that sense. Yes, it's time to get out of the country of unmodern habits such as neglect, neglect, leniency, tolerance for mistakes. We'll be fine. It's time to walk with every precaution, to throw away his delusion. We all have great duties to all of us, to all of our members of the Commission, to our ministries, with his opposition to his power. It is also necessary that today, all of them united in the face of catastrophes, and our heartbroken human beings will continue this care at all times at all times. With his power, with his opposition, with similar or different opinions, we're all swinging pickaxes side by side in a rich mine called Turkey and on the same shift. The mine goes for all of us. It is our goal to bring these values to earth beneath the ground, to bring them to earth in the most reliable ways in the world, and to take advantage of those mines. Of course we'll take precautions, of course we'll do inspections. Our commission is continuing its work, and by the way, I don't think there's much point in setting up a new commission. If they have suggestions, our Commission's valuable deputies often come to their work, including members of the Commission and our friends who are not in the Commission. I want to thank everyone who contributed. We believe our Commission will present a healthy report and present it to the House. He thinks there's no need for a new commission to work, and I respectfully salute the entire House.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0050par0050	Thank you. I'd like to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting Wednesday (05/11/2014), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. İstanbul MP Sulejman Çelebi and 26 MPs have been issued a parliamentary research motion (1409 ranked 1409), which was issued on 25/06/2014 to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in order to "determinate measures against fatal business accidents in the construction sector." lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations Wednesday (05/11/2014) and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. Süleyman Çelebi has asked for a statement in favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0051par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow lawmakers, I salute you once again. We're talking about something important. In fact, the motion of the research that the MHP gave earlier, the motions the Republican People's Party had made before the murder in Soma. If the motions that we have now given but are likely to reject were taken into account, we wouldn't have taken precautions here today if we had taken into account the water of those citizens involved in this process for 14 days before 301 people lost their lives. One of the duties of parliament, dear friends, is not only to make the law, but to make it right, to make the law a conscience, to make it human. Two: Parliament must have a duty and a conscience to exercise control authority in the name of the people. But all suggestions from the opposition are rejecting all scientific data on this issue. Now, we're probably going to talk about this motion, but once again, if there's an accident tomorrow when we're talking about this motion, God forbid, don't let anyone get out of this podium and talk about it. They no longer have the right to speak from this bench, and no one mourns over it anymore, because we are already warning you, dear friends. Look, I'm drawing gold again in England in fifteen years -- the number of people who died in fifteen years -- is the number of people who died in Soma. I'm talking 15 years. Now, all these things will be known here, we will tell you all about them, we will tell you about them in the Commission, don't do it, don't do it, don't go away. We'll say, we'll almost beg you, we'll beg you, we'll beg you, if you go through with this, you won't be able to prevent these murders. Now, as if that wasn't enough, you've completely indexed the issue to 301 people, just as your spokesman just brought it up. What about the dear friends, the ones who died in Şırnak? Not enough, but what about those who died in Bartin? The state of those who are now in Ermenek, perhaps at the point of loss of their lives... there are 301 people who have died in Kozlu, in Karadon, in Dursunbey, in Kemalpaşa, in Gediz, in Orb, in Orb, in Organ, in Armutçuk, in Kahramarash, in some others... as if they had already died in the mine. It's like when you solve this, you solve the problem in Turkey. What are we talking about, dear friends? We're talking about 1,072 people who die every year. You can't account for 1,072 people who die every year for 301 people alone. He fell off the elevator. Who will answer for the people who have been struck down? Who will answer for the people who died one by one, who died two days ago in Bartin? Here they mourn, and now they preach from here; and whomsoever the trick toucheth, they shall go upon it; and whomsoever it toucheth, it is known that it is ye that are responsible for it, and for it is ye who make it; and it is we who make it, and for you who refuse it. Who's it gonna lead to? I don't think the tip's gonna touch us. With a conscience... do you want to sleep well tonight? Don't you really want these dead to come into your dreams tonight and after this? Come, show your conscience at least today, dear friends, if you can't perform today, then don't go on this stand and mourn us. We're sick and tired of all this mourning, and we're tired of you offering the job to someone. That's enough, take responsibility. At least get on the stand and say we're sorry. And make excuses to these people and their families once and for all. (CHP cheers) That's what a human does. My dear friends, now, during the AKP government, business accidents have increased by 1.5 stories and the rate of business accidents has increased 25 times. Now, we're not going to see this, sir, and we're going to say, "This, this, this, this, this is the will of God. Yes, we understand God's will, but does God in Germany, in England, in France, in other lands, appreciate something else? Your transfer to God is just as false, dear friends. We understand the work you have committed to God, but at least don't refer it to God. Know your responsibility and act accordingly. Look, my dear friends, I have a lot to say about this. There are 1,580,000 businesses in our country, according to statistics, as of 2013. Those who work in these workplaces, who now appear to be insured -- I'm separating them from the record, from what you bring from China, from what you run off the record; I'm coming from Syria and I'm telling you by separating off-book employees here -- 12 million 984, 191 people. Now, just now, here you were, my friend Ali Reza Ozturk, going to the state of the police, where did he come from? Let me give you a number: look, from 2002 to today, the number of police employed to squeeze gas, batons and water for our people, you had 122,000 police officers in 2002, and now you have 229 thousand police officers. I mean, with the number of cops rising to 229,965, my dear friends, there are only 264 people in the occupational health and safety of the worker to ensure the protection of the worker! I'm underlineing that. Look how much you cared about the police. You've taken tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of police, but this is the total number of inspectors you've got to inspect your workplaces, oversee your occupational health and occupational safety. Isn't that enough? I mean, don't you have a responsibility here? If there was a job inspector's request there, if there really were those audits today, if you took our advice on these things seriously... don't you have any responsibility? Well, my dear friends, let me tell you something else: we begged and begged here, we talked about the agreements of the ILO (ILO), the Security and Health Convention No. 175 in Construction Work, and the Advice Decision 176 in the Mines, and the Declaration of Health and Safety (183), and the provisions of ILOP's Employment and Security Act 187. Where is he? We said it's on the commission. Where is he? We said he's in the council. Mr. Secretary answered from here, remember? I'm just saying it to make a note of history. He said: "These are all the laws that we have already passed. Why do these people die, where they are not poured out, where those people are left to die, dear friends? Because there's only one reason: this country is badly run. In terms of occupational health, occupational safety, employees are being abused over the sweat of this country, where they're being lectured, and all our motions to do so have been rejected. We didn't criticize alone, we also brought suggestions. In our proposals, we said, "Let's set up a worker's health, occupational safety council." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Workers, employers, occupational organizations. You refused them all. Now I say you have no right to mourn here, I salute you all with respect, with love.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0052par0081	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Ali Aydınlıoğlu, Balıkesir MP.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0053par0083	Sir, Vural Cantaloupe.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0052par0084	Vural Katuncu, Kütahya MP. Here you go, Mr. Cantaloupe.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0054par0087	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's motion to open a parliamentary investigation on business health and safety. On this occasion, I salute the committee. The Soma and Ermenek mining accidents over the past few months have deeply upset us all. On this occasion, once again, my condolences to our workers who have lost their lives, to their families and to our nation. It is our greatest desire that our miners in Ermenek be brought to earth as soon as possible. In the context of these accidents, all other matters of occupational health and safety have been brought up. Our President and Prime Minister's direct instructions and close interest have also begun work on the discovery of possible neglects or setbacks in this matter and the taking of the necessary measures as a priority, as well as the accountability of the responsible in front of the law. One of these studies is our Parliamentary Research Commission, which has been established by our Parliament to investigate accidents, particularly the Soma accident, and to determine the measures for business health and safety that should be taken in this sector. Since its establishment, our commission has been conducting its work in a transparent manner, without allowing anything to remain hidden, without any preconceptions. In this context, we listened to almost all of the parties, we received the opinions of scientists and experts from our country and other countries, we listened to employers separately, employees separately, institutions, unions and auditors separately, and we became in touch with our people. We went down to our mines, especially in Soma, and did proper inspections. In recent days, our commissioner had made a promise again about CHP's group proposal, stating with open heart where we came from and how we found it. At this time, our commission report is being prepared and is now in the process of presenting it. We're going to talk about the significant setbacks that we've detected here and the measures that need to be taken. For example, according to our existing Law on Health and Safety, regulations and improvements are needed in the regulation of mining businesses. So the law's out, so it's all over, and we don't think every problem's solved. We've been through all this in our commission, we've been through it, we've been through it. Lawmakers of all of our opposition parties have contributed to the formation of such views, and their views will be included in drafting the report. Without waiting for this report, we adopted an arrangement involving urgent measures and improvements in the bag within the law. We have improved the material conditions of our miners, their retirement age has dropped, and their working hours have been reduced to six hours. Due to the new law, the necessary work and arrangements for the cost increases of employers will be made immediately, and I would like to emphasize again our Prime Minister's preparation for the group. According to ILO sources, 1 million men and women die every year in the world due to business accidents and occupational illness. According to statistics from the Social Security Agency in 2010, 62,900 work accidents and 533 cases of occupational illness occurred in our country, and unfortunately, 1,454 employees were also killed. We know that even though financial losses are made up for, there is no way to make amends for the lives that are gone. Based on CHP's research motion, some examples of business accidents that have caused suffering in the public conscience are expected to suggest that business accidents and related deaths are increasing. However, that is not true. The latest statistics released by the Social Security Agency are from 2012. As we look at the official data, the number of jobs increased by 111 per cent in 2012 and the number of employees by 129 per cent in 2012, although in 2002, the death rate of 100,000 employees dropped by 16.8 per cent, while in 2012, the rate dropped by 55 per cent to 6.2 per cent. Of course, we never see it as the final point, but once again, in 2002 -- at the point of our government -- it's 16.8%. Of course, we'll continue to work on it. Precious lawmakers, studies around the world show that 50 per cent of business accidents can be prevented by simple measures and 48 per cent by methodical studies. Often, our assessment of business accidents as one mistake, neglect alone will lead to significant illusions that we hold only one person or institution responsible as a stone of sin. First of all, it's all about the society's business security culture, the employee, the employer, the bureaucrat, the institutions. We're still members of a society that carries a false safety lock on their private automobile. Since this understanding is often maintained in the working environment, it seems inevitable that we face sad situations as long as this understanding continues, regardless of the rule, the law, whatever law you bring in, or do inspections. The main goal here should be to spread business safety culture around the entire community and narrow down employees, employers' personal preferences and initiatives in situations that are contrary to business security. The issue of occupational health and safety is not just at the workplace and the working level, but because we believe that the country's economy, the well-being of our people, is a priority that should be handled directly and at the national and international level of society, in 2012, under the roof of the General Assembly, we all came up with the overall Law on Business Health and Safety, 6331. So for the first time, we've allowed all employees to benefit from their occupational physician and occupational safety specialists, including public employees, regardless of the number limit and the type of workplace. It is not true, either, that the law is not in accordance with the ILO Conventions 155 and 161, in the motion for research. The study, which makes the law's harmony with 155 ▪, is the establishment of the National Council for Health and Safety, representing all social parties, and the coverage of all employees of the law. In the 21st article of the law, however, the working and fundamentals of the council established to advise on policy and strategy for business health and safety across the country were also published as regulations in the Official Gazette. In addition, let us remember once again what innovations have been introduced in this law: the employee has removed the number limit. Businesses are classified by risk. The protective and preventive approach is based on it. The employee representative has been brought in. Emergency plans are mandatory. Search, rescue, evacuation, planning on fire and first aid issues has been imposed. Occupational education is required. When we look at workplaces where the rules of occupational health and safety are violated, we can also see sad paintings. Employees may sometimes condone and even share these violations as a result of various pressures, fear of losing a job, or not enough organised union activities. For example, some of the workers who work in Soma mines have expressed that they themselves were driving diesel vehicles that should not be run underground, carrying diesels, and hiding them when business inspectors arrived. So we're going to have to relieve our employees of their fears and raise awareness of the responsibilities of all businesses and employees. The workers were able to convey neglects, compulsions, and pressures through BIMER. Now, under the Prime Minister's orders, a separate line of communication is being opened directly.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0055par0101	No way, Hajji!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0054par0102	Let's say the employer is moving in an improper elevator, using improper tools, facing any pressure; they will reach directly through this line and will be processed within the framework of the law. The records of those who lost their lives in business accidents and employers are carefully made, one of the issues mentioned in the research proposal. For those responsible, due to our laws, the required legal practices are being carried out. In the coming years, he wishes for a Turkey free of business accidents and occupational illness, a peace of work, a rising economy and prosperity level, so I say we are against the motion the CHP has made, and I salute you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0056par0106	Thank you. The Republican People's Party is in favour of the group's proposal. Ali Öz, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0057par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party on behalf of the People's Party's Party of National Action Party on its research proposal on occupational health and safety. First of all, I salute your grand delegation. However, I'd like to begin with a cross-section of my speech from the ruling party MP against the Republican People's Party's motion. My dear colleague, Reverend Hodja, the death rate of the 2012 job accidents in Turkey, unfortunately, compared to the 2008 and 2014, was the lowest number that led to the end of the lives of 744 of our people. Today, however, in the first nine months of 2014, 1,414 workers in Turkey died in connection with a business accident. So, the fact that you're saying 50 percent better than yesterday may be realistic on the basis of 2012, but these numbers of deception today mean nothing more than the effort to flip these numbers that you're so used to. [[Applause from CHP rows]] At the point of preventing business accidents in Turkey, I want to remind you of something. Look, we're talking about lack of control, recklessness, lack of punishment. Do you think that in 2004, in the wake of the criminal investigations in which Pamukova, as we all know it, declared two poor people guilty and sentenced the first engineer to two years in prison, the second engineer to a year and three months in prison, and this nation will forget that we cleared the rest of them? Again, after a mining accident in Zonguldak, the former Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan is already used to such events. From the 90s until 20 years ago, we experienced many accidents, flu disasters in the Zonguldak region. So I came down to these stoves to see what kind of stove it was. I've seen my brothers work in those coal mines 2,000 metres deep. And that's the fate of this profession... I mean, it's fate in 2010. On 13 May 2014, after the Soma disaster in the history of the Turkish mining industry, 301 people lost their lives, Mr. Prime Minister made another statement: These are the fringes of this business sector. These are clear proof of how the Justice and Development Party evaluates events by pushing international contracts and universal values aside at the point of preventing and preventing them. I would also like to share with you the following figures: As Republican People's Party spokesman Süleyman Çelebi Bey put it, Turkey has taken 27,000 inspections in 2005, and I want you all to know that the number of inspections in workplaces has dropped to 8,000 in 2013, with a 70 per cent reduction in business. Of course, what happened? Meanwhile, the number of jobs in Turkey has increased from 850,000 to 1,600,000, and the number of workers has doubled. So, the number of businesses has increased, the number of workers has increased, but we've led to a reduction in inspections, which has reached 70 percent of the audits. In the last ten years, it is now known by everyone that fatal business accidents have increased seven to eight times in Turkey. The number of occupational health and safety inspectors in Turkey has been released -- 266 people. You're looking at the results from the courts after the forensic examinations of the events, and we're seeing that the penalties that we've lost in front of the citizens don't mean anything, so we shouldn't fool ourselves here. If we have a purpose to achieve international standards in Turkey, I would like to say that we are obliged to accept the definition of the World Health Organization for business health and labour health and to move our country on the same path, on the same path as a modern Turkey. The description of the International Health Organization and the ILO (ILO) made during the 12th session in 1995 is very clear and clear: ▪ No matter what work they do, they aim to ensure that all employees' physical, mental and social welfare be raised to the highest possible level and kept here; prevent health problems from working conditions; be employed in professional environments that fit workers' physical and biological capacity; in summary, the work should be made fit for human work, as well as for human work. In our country, in the last decade, unfortunately, the order of wild capitalism, by spending less economy in all sectors, to gain higher income, to escape audits, to avoid the punishments, and in the future, we, of course, will be constantly discussing and discussing other accidents in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in this platform of the nation. We took out the Occupational Safety Act in 2012, that's right. Unfortunately, most of our concerns were rejected by the ruling party when we said what should be, as a person who had been on that commission regarding the Health and Safety Act, which was issued in 2012. Look, I want to talk to you about something that hasn't happened, but is likely to happen in the future. Dear friends, I also have a large number of fellow physicians on that commission. We made an arrangement there in the field of occupational health and safety in public hospitals and private sector hospitals in Turkey. In the beginning, Turkey is just starting to say that we've known the private sector for six months, until the public sector of 2014, for two years, and we're probably all aware of that. Later, by keeping the private sector separate from the public and private sector -- as if there were an occupational accident in public hospitals -- in the sense that only active government officials would be affected by this accident -- we considered the hospital's normal capacity and the number of beds, regardless of the number of people around the other hospital, the business safety (A) class to be a dangerous business facility, and brought in the necessity of job safety specialists. Then what happened? Then, as a result of some pressures from some places, this incident, which should have been completed during the two-year period of 2014, was suddenly postponed to 2006, with a summary of the Council of Ministers. In that case, we will weep even more. We always say that what dies, what remains is ours. That's not enough. We give martyr medals to those who die, and those who stay behind, we make a law against them, we give them money, we give them a house, we help them. For one thing, our perspective, our perspective... what we can do at the point of preventing these accidents, instead of arguing with his power, all together, after the accident, what can we do? I'd like to say that in the wake of the mining accident here in Ermenek, the Prime Minister's, frankly, we'll shut it down immediately by informing the tip line of the employees there. What country do we live in? In a country where labor is exploited, subcontractorization is raised to number one in the business sector, you will employ workers with minimum wage or below, who will call the tip line for the failures at work and do it without having a fear of losing their job! Do you ridicule the people's minds? Is it possible for a worker to do that? See, even occupational security experts can't pass on the audit setbacks to higher authorities and positions because they get their wages from the bosses. Please, let us speak the truth from the people's stand, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0058par0124	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Gökcen Özdoğan Enç, Antalya MP. Here you go, Mr. Enç.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0059par0128	I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's group proposal to make some legal arrangements in the construction sector. I salute your high council. As you know, yesterday, we were unable to legislate the Law on Change in Higher Education Staff Law 651 rows; we have finished all negotiations on it, and we will proceed to its articles today, God willing. Of course, we expect the support of the opposition. Thousands of professors are waiting for this law to pass through our House. We're confident the opposition parties will support us. Due to our busy schedule, we are against the group proposal given by CHP, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0060par0132	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0061par0133	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0060par0134	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0061par0135	I'd like to make a statement for a minute or two.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0060par0136	Sir?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0061par0137	It's as if the opposition party had a holdover on bill number 651 yesterday.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0060par0138	Mr. Sky, you can't understand. State your position.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0061par0139	Two minutes...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0060par0140	First state your position, and then we'll get to the bottom of it. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0061par0142	Mr. President, from the testimony of the speaker just now, yesterday's talks on Bill 651 rankings have come to light as if the opposition parties had been blocked by their position. I'd like to make a statement on that.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0060par0143	Here you go, Mr. Sky. Two minutes of teasing, I promise.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0061par0147	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I want everyone to know very clearly that the Republican People's Party is in favor of a serious co-operation with the ruling and opposition on all aspects of our community. There's no argument about it. The Republican People's Party's stance on this is on the side of labor, on the side of workers, on the side of small income. As in higher education, a law that favours scientists, if discussed, if you don't have any doubts about it, we support it more than anyone, but on one condition, as the Republican People's Party, our difference from the ruling party is the proper use of public resources, not the waste of public resources. We've submitted proposals in Bill 651, where we met yesterday, asking our professors, our professors, to take a greater share of the bill you brought in. If you accept our motions, you'll show us once again who's on the side of which side is on the side of which side. However, something happened yesterday: when it came to the matter of the palace of the fugitive, here, the speakers said to our President, "May he be blessed!" they said, "It suits him." So we say that when you use public resources, you will be so careful... that when you use public resources... let's make the laws lawful for our worker, lawful for our worker, lawful for our small income! Don't defend the escaped palace here, don't defend the escaped palace here. I say we'll give you all the support we can on this, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0062par0150	No, what does what I'm saying have to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit02spe0063par0151	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0063par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 10th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the 3rd ranking chair of the Turkish Institutes of Health and the Constitutional Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws and Law Decisions, and a Similar Law Proposal and Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission Report. No commission. It's been postponed. In the 4th ranking, MP Ali Öz and Milliyetci Movement Party Group Group Chair Mehmet Şandır as well as Tokat MP Reşat Asşat and Nationalist Movement Party MP Mehmet Şandır as well as Bartın MP Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya as MP Ali Öz and Milliyetçi Movement Party Group MP Oktay Öal as well as İstanbul MP Aydın Ajan Ayadı as Ankara MP Zühal Topcu as; Antalya MP Gürkut Acar The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Yesterday's merger completed negotiations on the entire bill. It was in the voting process for the transfer of the clauses. Now, I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. PROGRAMING FOR CHANGES IN MY HIGH SCHOOL PERSONEL BLOOD ISBN 1-11/10/1983 and 2914 added the following clause to the Higher Education Staff Act. EK MADDE 3-Official Officers, the highest state official subject to the law is gross monthly (e.g. A) 100 percent of the professor's staff, B) 100% of the people on the Assocent staff, c) A.D.C., 100% of the staff, D) Investigator, 115% of his staff, e) 115% of the teachers and teachers' staff, f) Experts, translators and educational-educators are paid 155% per month in higher education compensation per month. Monthly provisions are imposed on the right and payment of this compensation. The compensation to be paid according to this clause will not be subject to any tax other than the stamp tax and will not be taken into account in the account of the same payments, which are paid according to the relevant legislation, given the raises, compensations, grants, return capital supplements, bonuses, and fees. Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP who has asked on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri, your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0064par0036	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the MHP Group on the 1st Amendment to the Higher Education Staff Act on the 1st Amendment of Law 651. On this occasion, I salute you all. This bill is not meant to be discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission, but by the National Commission for Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, which came directly to the Plan and Budget Commission. One minute, goal one!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0065par0039	Raise or no raise, just say it first.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0064par0040	I mean, we couldn't teach this Justice and Development Party where this bill would go, where it would come from, despite all our objections, our warnings, we couldn't, we couldn't.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0065par0041	Do you want a raise or not? Don't worry about them.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0064par0042	You still don't understand, it's amazing! On the other hand, I would especially like to answer a few questions regarding yesterday's discussions. Now, yesterday, the AKP spokeswoman said that the new president's building, which is on the loose...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0066par0044	That's a lie.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0064par0045	...to those who have been critical of this illegal building.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0067par0046	Hodja, how much is the building? Just say it.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0064par0047	In a place where the law is made, illegal, not illegal buildings, it's irrational to question those who say it, it's immoral, and I'd like to stress that first. When there's no law, there's bliss and chaos. If there's a law being broken and smuggling is being advocated, then everyone is allowed to do anything. Illegality, smuggling and not listening to the law are untenable, smuggling is untenable, and illegal buildings cannot be used. That's what law, morality, and moral values command. Another concern is that the Ministry of National Education has carried out a staff conflict in Turkey, similar to the once cultural revolution in China. But Mr. Minister of National Education isn't here either.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0068par0050	Yeah, I'm a professor.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0064par0051	We're very pleased with you, Mr. Secretary, and you sitting there, but the minister with the acquish of the real job doesn't exist.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0068par0052	I'm a 30-year educator, you can ask.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0064par0053	Well, then answer me, and you'll answer me if you're there. Mr. Secretary said yesterday that the opposition said 100,000 people, but we removed 16,000 school principals. The fact is that non-AKP school principals have been legally dismissed, that's the case. Now, look, Turkish Education-YEN 22 percent, you're 12 percent, you're 12 percent, you're 4 percent, you're 4. The ratios of those currently running the public are: Turkish Education-SEN 9 per cent, you're 4%, you're 4%, you're 1 per cent, you're 1 per cent, you're 1 per cent, you're 1 per cent, you're 1 per cent, you're 1 per cent, you're 8 per cent. The figures clearly reveal that members of the EDUCATION-IMINATION-IN-SEN have been prioritized. These results have nothing to discuss.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0069par0056	Don't argue, they'll all be with us. He says so.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0064par0057	The appointment of 81 per cent of AKP's members as school principal is proof that the Ministry of National Education has been returned to the education ministry. It's funny how the Minister tried to explain it with the book and the study. Again, as it is known, for the first time, the principals were given oral examinations. The written exam was lifted, and the union's men were subjected to verbal examinations to become managers. Whether or not the commissions without union representatives will be able to accept oral tests that do not have measurable criteria, is another matter. The branch managers have also taken part in every field of national education, and the issue has been moved to the judiciary, and its ranking of achievements, based solely on verbal test results, has been found against the law, and the execution of the regulation has been halted. However, the Ministry of National Education did not cancel its appointment as branch manager based on the oral exam, continuing its unlawfulness. The Ministry of National Education is immune to law during the AKP period. The worst evil done to a country is through training, and the AKP does it for 48 hours in 24 hours. I'm going to bring up a couple of things about education and how important a trained person is. The famous sociologist Saint Simon said, "If all France's vehicles were destroyed overnight, I could rebuild the same order in six months, but if all the doctors disappeared suddenly, we could only reach the present level in a century." he says. The famous businessman Ford said, "Destroy my factory and my machines, but leave my men to me. I'll have my old fortune back as soon as possible." He's drawn attention to the importance of trained manpower. Education is sort of a qualified human upbringing. You destroy direct education and trained people. Whereas not only efficiency, but an independent and free head, but a trained head. So there's also a linear relationship between the foundation of democracy and education. Neither the institutions of non-free countries are free, nor can their political parties be free. A country with a low level of education is also a country that is behind development. The most advanced areas of education are the universities. The countries whose universities are unintended, whose academic studies are unqualified can never be accepted as a developed country. He is the trained man who will make the organization, the technology, and the factory necessary for development. Colleges also provide education for people. In Turkey, universities have been transformed into jobs for people who can't afford and earn a living. The famous term is, "He's a self-inflicted grandfather, who helps other people, "when academic staff struggles to meet their needs, we all have to give our appreciation for how to perform other services. It is unthinkable for an academic who is struggling with income to give himself up for education or research. Therefore, low wages, difficult working conditions at universities cause academic staff to flee from public universities. Academic personnel are underpaid for their basic needs. This is not an acceptable situation. Since 2002, when AKP power took over, university academic staff have been struggling with poverty and poverty. The AKP has condemned university staff to the law of brass of wages. In this regard, I would like to emphasize a few issues concerning academic staff problems and problems. It is observed that the level of salary of academic personnel is unstable, that when compared with the judiciary, military members and top bureaucracy, the distance between them and the others is increasing at the price level. The fact that the university is losing its charm in the eyes of academics is also a problem for scientific studies in our country. It is imperative that academics' salaries be taken to the private sector level in order for universities to develop, preserve academic staffs and especially not lose people who are successful in their fields to the private sector. He still remembers that last January, academics who had improved their salaries in front of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and acted for their rights and set fire to doctoral thesis and scientific articles. The idea that improvements in their salaries and conditions will have negative impact on the budget at the rate they deserve for academics, and the defence of that thought is very wrong. Because any planned and rational investment in education and academics will be an investment in the future of our Turkish ▪. Now, all university staff have remained at the level of poverty in terms of salary and salary. During the AKP, several universities were opened, numbers were raised, quality was reduced. During the AKP, more AKP presidents were appointed to universities than AKP. The AKP had nothing to do with naming universities after party elders. At universities, academic staff have lost a great deal of research and study due to income shortages. How superficially this bill has been drawn up is that some of the academic staff have been forgotten to increase their salary. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not entirely possible to reduce the AKP's corruption taps, but it's possible to actually raise a fee from saving to academic staff in the event of a slight reduction. As I pay my respects, I invite the AKP to literally increase the wages of academic staff, and I pay all of you with respect.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0070par0080	Thank you. Mehmet Haberal, MP Zonguldak who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the matter. Here you are, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0071par0084	Thank you. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I have been promised to discuss Law 651. Mr. President, valued MPs, the name of the law is change in the Higher Education Staff Act. When we looked under it, only changes to the salary of university professors were raised. In fact, even that's missing. Why? Because in our country of higher education today, let's think like a human being, at the top of the board of higher education, under which we have two groups of universities, one of which is public universities, and the other is foundation universities. Of course, I am a professor who has been educated in our country with state universities for a long time and has experienced every one of those changes, and I'm afraid that every period in our country -- you know, a famous word -- has always looked for what's coming between our people. I'm afraid that every change that comes after a change has always been a search for the past. Of course, the university has been through important times, so let's think about the 60s, the 70s, the 80s. Really, today, of course, the fees of the faculty at the university are very important, but in my opinion, are we going to think about that in the first place? Colleges... how are college freedoms in universities, how are the staff at universities, how many staffs have been provided at universities? And more. We have very valuable friends here, we've all been there. At universities, at public universities, how do the boards work, whether they're being considered, whether there's a fair course of action, whether the professors can actually say their ideas freely, whether or not they're being assigned somewhere? So, dear friends, in colleges, yes, that's right... Now, again, my friends at my age will remember very well, I started at Hacettepe University in 1967 with a salary of 450 lira. It's a fact. Of course, that's what the circumstances of that day were, but is that what was important in the first place? In the first place, education was important. Really, I say this all the time, I remember Master Ihsan with mercy and gratitude because Hacettepe, especially in medicine, has brought reform to our country. Indeed, we lived in a separate world in that institution. So we had one goal, how do we learn more, how do we do more research, how can we contribute more to science, and that's how we started. So, what's the situation today? Of course, we're all very proud of our country's reach. At that time, there were universities in our major cities, where the number of public universities today is 104, and when we put additional colleges in our country, there are almost 200 degrees of universities in the country. So, dear friends, of course, we'd all be happy to have this law and faculty's salaries restored to the agenda after at least this long. That's very true, but is it enough? It's not. Some of our friends brought up yesterday's talks, and it turns out that our friends here will only benefit from these salaries when they're working. So I made a suggestion to Mr. Group President, and I said, Mr. President, at least let's make a motion so that our friends can continue with this fee after retirement. But, of course, I understand there's been some trouble with the Treasury Department. But I'd still like to bring that up from here. Generally, this law, as I said, is just a law that involves public universities. But in our country today... it's also a contribution by the late Mr. Ihsan Shredder... to the establishment of the foundation universities, which are truly an important development for our country and a very important contribution to higher education. Therefore, have mercy on him over and over again, and I give thanks. There are foundation universities in our country today. They're colleges for almost 300,000 students. They're really important numbers for our country. More than that, there's about 20,000 professors. So, what's the status of the faculty at these foundation universities? The final joke of Article 130 of the Constitution is clear, the status of the foundations universities here is that academic studies, other than the financial and administrative issues established by the institutions of higher education, and the provisions laid down in the Constitution for the higher education institutions established by the state, which are unfortunately working at the foundation university today. That's why our esteemed deputies, our friends, can't get green passports. Really, this is a very prestigious situation for the faculty. Now he's applying, he's going to Congress, he's got an international announcement, but unfortunately he can't get a green passport, so he's going door to door. I've also talked to the presidents of the Republican People's Party group, as well as the ruling party's members of the group, but unfortunately, no progress has been made in that regard. Of course, the heart would have wanted to have at least put a substance in there when this law was being passed, to have the faculty' rights brought up, and that way it would have been removed, so it would have been taken care of. Really, I'd like to say once again that this matter is very sensitive. Another issue, valued lawmakers, is the problem of research staffs, as is the case at public universities in the foundations. In fact, if you look at it, foundation universities are institutions that don't burden the IRS because of the services they're doing today. So, of course, the heart would like to see that there are not enough specialists at the foundation universities, especially in medical schools today, since the research officer is not taken enough -- at times, especially in the context of the information I received from our Minister of Health -- there are not enough specialists. No, really, there aren't enough attendings. And we demand it. However, we can't get enough investigators. I mean, I'm having a hard time understanding that. Now, organizations that don't bring any burden to our country's budget, if they can... what is it? I always say that state standard, state infrastructure, state control. The foundation universities are already so audited that its valued MPs are regularly inspected every year -- not with a couple of people like that -- are being scrutinized all over the place. So if the institutions are truly capable of providing expertise, then why not give them research workers? It's not the staff, so it's not an app that's going to burden the government's budget. We say, give us 100 casts. Next thing you know, there's 20 casts coming in. I'm having trouble understanding. It's not just for us, I've met with some of the presidents of state universities and some of the rectors of the foundation universities, and unfortunately, there's the same problem at public universities and the same problem at the foundation universities. So if we solve the problem of the research worker, then I believe we'll be able to contribute a lot more to our country's future, because the research worker, who's going to be a professor after him, will be assistant professor after him, and will continue, and it will be a scientific contribution to our country, as well as the number of physicians and specialists our country needs. Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0072par0096	Thank you. Asked on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on Articles, Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0073par0100	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, one of the biggest injuries in our country is the problem of education. Starting with pre-school education, starting with preschools, college and post-university, up to Masters and Ph.D., I'm afraid we're a country that hasn't even been able to keep up with the world standards yet. Dear friends, let us first say that we will vote yes for this arrangement on improving the status, income, and salaries of the teachers. But if all of our problems, all of our problems, all of our problems, were limited to giving our friends a little bit more material resources, but unfortunately, what's the most important problem with Turkey today? That's our main problem. Of course, where do you start with the problem, so do you have to start with pre-school preschool, or do you have to go through all this fast and go to colleges? Dear friends, believe me, whatever we're talking about, we need to talk for hours. I'd like to first give you a few figures on the injustices of the university system in Turkey about the most obvious intergalactic imbalance. After that, I'd like to address structural difficulties, distortions. Dear friends, Diyarbakır Dicle University was founded in 1974, but before that, Diyarbakır Medical Faculty began training at Ankara University in 1969. It is one of the oldest universities in Turkey, at least one of the oldest universities in Anatolia. I'd like to give you a few numbers: The number of students of the Conium Selçuk University is over 90 thousand. The number of students at Isparta Süleyman Demirel University is around 70,000. Eskişehir and Erzurum universities have over 100,000 students. I mean, why over 100,000? I received the number of students from Erzurum Ataturk University with a final question motion a year and a half ago, 99,500. As of a year and a half ago. The population of the city is 350,000, the number of students is 100,000. So, where do I want to go from here, where do I want to go? Until only three or four years ago, the number of students at Diyarbakir Dicle University was 12,000, and we were able to bring it to 31,500. Less than half of an Isparta University. Diyarbakır's central population is 1 million, the province's population is 1 million, 607 thousand, and it is addressed at least 6-7 million people in the vicinity of the Indian. Dear friends, from now on, I'd like to say a few words about the structures of the universities. Let's open up college everywhere, that's right. We've opened a university with her, which the government boasts the most and almost every opportunity to speak to... lf you don't open a university with 81 but 500 districts, 1,500 districts. But I'm hungry. I can't say that. And the discussion of this is so advanced that, you know, colleges contribute so socially, science, culturally to places they're built, you don't want it, why are you being elitist, do you want all universities to stay in a few provinces? No, friends, open up as many colleges as you want, but not colleges. Start at the building of this, from the professor, from the lab, from other social and cultural facilities to the cultural centers, if you can't find a structure, it's just on the sign. Today, unfortunately, many of our college graduates don't have as much knowledge and culture as our father's high school graduates, a graduate of Kabataş High School, a graduate of Galatasaray High School, a Haydarpaşa High School graduate. We all have kids, so let's take them and test them. Today, they don't call a person who doesn't know his history, his literature, his culture an intellectual anywhere in the world. Take an ordinary Iranian intellectual, and he recites the poems of Firdevsi, Omar Hayyam, and his couches. Get an ordinary middle school graduate, get an Arab teenager, he knows it by heart again about his culture. We don't have a decent college graduate who knows about Fuzuli, Baki, Nedim, and Sheikh, and Nesimi. There's no one left who knows the recent literature. Now, in a teaching system like this, you can brag all you want, you can fill people up with paper and call them college graduates, but if there's no reward, it's nothing but empty bragging. Why should the children memorize these old fairy tales? Let's come to something new: How many universities do we have now in the world that are entering the first 100? Here we are bragging, and it's just been talked about, and the sum of private and state universities is over 170, over 180, moving fast to 200. There are 200 universities in Turkey -- I'm telling you around -- but how many universities do we have in the world that are going to the top 100? How many are in the first 500? I mean, a Harvard, Cambridge, Oxford, Stanford, John Hopkins colleges, where they can compete with them... in the article, in scientific thesis, in research, how many articles do we have? So let's just... so that's not how it works, dear friends. The economic assets of many of our universities, the land, the land, the buildings, are not worth the library of a John Hopkins University. $50 million donated to the library alone. Therefore, dear friends, this misery, this misery must be resolved at once. Our high schools are miserable, our middle schools are miserable. An ordinary colonial intellectual, in Africa, in India, in Pakistan, in the Arab countries, who speaks enough foreign languages to express a youth's term for finishing high school, but in English, but in French, but in Spanish, anyway... how many of our college graduates can say anything other than... We can't teach a language, we can't play a musical instrument properly. We had mandolins played in schools for 80 years, and no one knows how to play mandolin. Well, nobody knows how to drum. Well, we can't teach music... so maybe I'm telling you this by cartoonizing it, but let's look at our kids. How many of them can play a decent musical instrument, even though we send it to all the special courses, what's the percentage? I'd like the Minister to answer them, for example, as a percentage; 5 percent of them play a musical instrument very well, ten, 15, 40, 50... Dear friends, even a Soviet intellectual, even those who are trained in the collapsing system of the Soviet Union that we don't like, are surely competent and expert in something from opera, from ballet, from music to literature. I mean, look who's here because they're forced to clean our homes, four times as much as we are, five times as culturally equipped. Now, if we don't do these reviews, if we can't talk about it. Well, well, well, music, literature, poetry, it's hard, as a late brother of mine said, let's start with a little bit of sports. How many athletes do we have? What's the status on P.E. classes? You know, for lazy students, they say they're all weak except in body training. So from athletics to wrestling, from swimming to soccer, hold on to table tennis, I don't know, until basketball? That's in the middle. So, friends, this is about college, so let's give these professors and professors a few cents to shut up, and then our conscience is clear, they're satisfied, let's go home... lt's not possible, we're miserable. We need to focus on this education system at least half as much as you're giving us on double roads immediately, from kindergarten to college to doctor's school to master's, otherwise we're screwed. My respects.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0074par0113	Thank you. Sevim Savarer, İstanbul MP who has asked for a personal word on the matter. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Fighter.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0075par0117	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the 1st Amendment to Higher Education Staff Act 651. I hereby salute your high council. The basic mission of universities is to develop individual creativity, promote social development, accelerate economic development, contribute to modernisation and democratic maturity. Throughout the world, the area of higher education and science is constantly expanding and, of course, more students and more professors are involved in this area to meet the public demand for scientific knowledge every day. The ability of universities to contribute in this sense also depends on the ability of our country's young and intelligent minds to retreat to our universities to make academicism an attractive profession. The education of the EC PARTY governments has been considered our country's top priority. From 2002 to today, the number of students has increased from 1.5 million to 5.5 million, from 73 to 184. Again, his emphasis on education is shown in his budget. In 2002, he increased seven times the amount of $11.3 billion to 78.5 billion in 2014. The source for education in 2015 is estimated at $87.5 billion. It is also estimated that the amount of $2.8 billion that was earmarked to higher education institutions in 2002 would be $18.5 billion in 2015, and the source for research and development spending would be $2.8 billion in 2015. In higher education, it is possible to have a quality of manpower, but with academics who are qualified, productive, and able to renew themselves according to changing circumstances within the system. Academicism is a long and demanding way: a master's degree, a doctorate, each one of which has access conditions; there are dams like foreign language, ALES, interviews, thesis preparation stages. At least two years for a master's degree program, at least four years for a PhD program, that doesn't always complete in a period of about six years, including eight to ten years. From now on, the assistant professorship title, the first stage of teaching membership, can be accepted. Again, foreign language, foreign language publications need to be made, and, of course, some conditions need to be provided again. It would not be right for this day to say that such self - sacrificing work has earned the right position of the faculty. Therefore, higher education compensation is expected to be increased by violating a new payment element in the name of the university, which is added to the 1st article of the Bill of 651 rows. Compensation for higher education, according to Article 3. The highest state official under the State Officer's Law shall be paid 100 per cent of the gross monthly salary for professors, professors, assistant professors; researchers, professors, professors, professors, specialists, and education planners, each month for higher education compensation by 115 per cent. With the legislation of the bill, it provides the minimum conditions of life for young people who would prefer to remain in the profession as well as academically. It will be guaranteed. I wish the law to be good for all the faculty, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0076par0124	Thank you. Tülay Bakır, Samsun MP. Here you go, Mr. Copper.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0077par0128	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have taken a personal oath on the 1st Amendment to Higher Education Staff Act of 1983 on the 1st Amendment. I salute you all. With this bill, professors, professors, professors and assistant professors will receive 726 TL in the title of higher education compensation for the professors, professors and assistant professors; a salary increase of 36.5 per cent for the monthly salaries of professors, researchers, students, specialists, education planners, and education planners will be provided at a cost of 36.35 TL. Our 121,999 professors will benefit from this salary increase. The annual cost of higher education compensation is 1 billion 122 million Turkish liras for 2014. This bill will also grant academic incentives for academic studies. Thus, professors will receive $726 TL in 2016, 653 TL in 2015, 581 TL to assistant professors, 508 TL to researchers, 508 euro in research, publications, exhibitions, patents, scientific references, scientific advice meetings, and awards from the International Council of Sciences. The annual cost of academic incentives will reach 795 million Turkish liras. After years of long studies, academic careers begin to be troubled, contestant, difficult process. Investigation is the first step in learning again for each field of science, the first step in transitioning from student to teaching, and the eagerness to become an expert is to work as hard as possible, sleepless nights, years without holidays. It's a very important scientific stage in which a guidance counselor gives his student the philosophy of science, thus building the foundation of all future academic life. Assoc. Prof., I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in science, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in. Professorship is a time when maturity in science will apply its own scientific principles. All academic stages and life are meant to work, to get very little rest and to be constantly renewed. The number of universities in our country, where universities are located in many cities in Seljuklu and Ottoman times, and the number of students in the university is rapidly increasing. As a result of the government's increased budget for education and ease in the establishment of a university, at least one state university is established in each of our provinces and several public universities, foundation and private universities. Our prime minister and our Minister of National Education are those who know best the difficulties, sacrifices, and importance of academics because they themselves are academics. I hope that this bill, which covers the rise in salaries brought to our Parliament shortly after the formation of the new government, will please our professors in terms of their priorities and appreciation for the awards for academic studies. I'd like to thank our Prime Minister, our ministers, and the members of the Plan and Budget Commission as an academic. The universities are the source of our country's social, political and economic power. Scientifically proven professors, young academics, and university students who are being transferred to scientific codes are one. On this occasion, I salute the teachers who raised me in the first place, the faculty, the researchers, and the saintly nation we came from. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'd like to say one more thing to my friends. Everything is a process that takes place one step at a time. First, even the people who finished elementary school in our country were numbered, then middle school, high school, college, and now we have a college student that we're going to represent with millions of dollars. Nothing happens all of a sudden. And right now, our training period has been extended to twelve years as mandatory training, and every parent wants to send their child to college. Don't worry, we'll get a lot of Nobel Prizes, friends who'll have a PhD in our country in thirty-forty years. And don't worry, our universities are going to be number-one universities. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0078par0139	Thank you. Now, the question-answer process will take ten minutes. Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0079par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. Our university hospitals lack assistants in many majors. You can't even find an assistant to stand guard. There are high expectations in this direction. There's no shortage of assistants in major majors, whether it's general surgery at the University of Gaziosmanpaşa. I want to know if our universities have a study this way, first of all. Second, there are serious shortcomings in schools in the Ministry of National Education abroad. I'd like to know if you have any work on support for schools abroad. The third question is that despite the fact that our universities and our high schools have been taught foreign languages, we are unable to achieve success with our students. I'd like to know if there's been any research done this way. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0080par0147	Thank you. Dear Little...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0081par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is there any new developments in yesterday's recording scandal at Üsküdar American High School, which we brought up in the General Assembly? Do you intend to intervene in this inequality, unfair practice? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0082par0152	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0083par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Manisa Social Sciences High School is a distinguished school that has five years of prep school and raises future political, legal candidates. This year, education continues on the last floor of TOKI Elementary School, while teaching in a cramped manner in the building of the science school last year. It's a big problem that high school and elementary school students are in the same building. Do you know anything about this? What precautions do you intend to take? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0084par0157	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0085par0159	Mr. President, thank you. This law is like five articles and a special law. I mean, it's a law called raising the rights, salaries of university teachers in Turkey, a teacher, an assistant, a professor. What about these teachers? The high school teacher, middle school teacher, elementary school teacher, doesn't he think about raising their salaries, or is he also considering appointing unassigned teachers, Mr. Secretary? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0086par0162	Thank you. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0087par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, in our universities, our secretary general is in 3,600 additional indicators, the heads of apartments are in 3,600 additional indicators, but I'm afraid the assistant secretary general doesn't have that right. Do you have any work on this? We would like to bring this matter to the attention, and we would like to have the university secretary general, who has been victimised here, evaluated from 3,600 additional indicators.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0086par0166	Thank you. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0088par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I tried to ask you yesterday, but there's some unfinished business. At the gates of some imam-gap schools, there are announcements under the name "free service" and "free food" (for free food). It is thought that the National Ministry of Education gave it to him because it is not clear who gave it to him. Many families, who are from their homes because of the imam-hating of many schools, have to send their children away with services, prefer them because of necessity. Is it considered to serve and eat to other schools? That's what I want to ask you. Second: I gave it to you on an street in Ataşehir as a motion to ask -- there's a home, a home, which is unknown to your ministry. Is this nest under your control or not? I want to learn that again here because there are no symptoms out there. In Ataşehir, our children...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0089par0172	Thank you. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0090par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, do you intend to give the academics the right to academic military service given to judges and prosecutors and also given to our teachers? Do you intend to give our academics the right to benefit from the academic language exam, as in the language exam? Academics are in a very difficult position to establish a co-existence. How are you going to handle this? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0091par0177	Thank you. The last question is for Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0092par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, all executives have somehow been cut off from management under the pretext of liquidating the parallel structure. Yesterday, the issue came up, and a large number of executives were appointed. And in your comment, you said, "Sir, you've trained them so well, they've been assigned to you." Do you really believe that for the sake of God? One. Two: Do you have any idea what kind of questions are being asked on this test, for God's sake, that no questions have been asked except questions from the weather? You also said that some of the other executives evaluated the vice principals. Are you aware that there are dozens of executives who evaluate people they don't see or know or know in any way? Really, is your conscience clear?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0093par0182	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0094par0184	Mr. President, lawmakers, the problem with the additional indicator of university secretary general's assistants will be resolved by an arrangement in State Officers' Law No. 657; there's a study on it, it's not finished yet, but we'll fix it together. Do I have to repeat it or not?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0095par0186	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0094par0187	Let's hope this injustice -- let's say -- will be dealt with by an arrangement in the Law of State Officers No. 657 to correct the additional indicators of these university secretary-Generals. We're doing the proper work on this, and hopefully, with your contribution, we'll fix it together. Any news on your question about the school we were talking about yesterday? Yes, there is, new information. I didn't have that information yesterday when I was here explaining, so after I got back to my friends, I had them run it again. Once, as claimed yesterday, there is no more quota than one student's purchase, on the contrary, even at that school, one quota is empty, one is empty. I mean, the registered student wasn't registered as an extra student after the school's quota was up.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0096par0189	How's the score?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0097par0190	Is it ranked by point?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0094par0191	And when you put the points in order, between the students who applied to the gap there... that's how it's done in all schools. If three students have applied, they're ranked within themselves, if one student has applied, then there's no comparison, and that's what happened there.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0097par0192	But what are these students' scores?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0094par0193	Why are you nodding? I'm giving you an update.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0098par0194	It's not true.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0094par0195	If you think this information is wrong, tell the truth. I'm giving you the information I received as Minister of National Education.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0099par0196	Not enough information, points on it.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0094par0197	Thus, although yesterday's registration period was full, the student's information was recorded. The information was both false. We told him about the secretary general at the university. Mr. Öğütίn is given free food at imam-hatip schools, which is given in other schools by the Ensar Foundation of imam-hating graduates, not by the Ministry of National Education, given by the Ensar Foundation.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0100par0200	That's not how it sounds, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0094par0201	That's not how it sounds, it's true.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0100par0202	I mean, that's not what the signs say. It's an argument for him, too.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0094par0203	I mean, it causes a lot of misunderstandings. It's as if the Ministry of National Education doesn't give food to certain schools, so that's a good question, thank you. I mean, I'm hoping that this will also help correct the general misunderstanding. The Ensar Foundation is a foundation founded by imam-hakip graduates, and that foundation provides food for schools where they graduate. This better set a good example for the graduates of our other schools, and they'll start a similar study at their schools. But here's the thing: we also provide students with transport training as the Ministry of National Education. Over the years, there has been injustice or inappropriate practice. It was given to students who came with transports, and the students who didn't come with transports were not given food. Now, as of this year, students who come to a school to carry food are given food, need, demand, and do not come with transport. I'll look into the situation of the school in Ataşehir. And about Manisa Science High School, you gave me a...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0101par0207	So that thing over there, that's Assatpaşa Neighborhood Fatih Rüþtü...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0094par0208	Okay, we got our note. I'll look into it.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0102par0209	Social Sciences...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0094par0210	It's about Manisa Social Sciences High School, where there's a new school building. It was said that when the school was finished, it was a temporary solution to move there.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0102par0211	It was promised three years ago, school was built, school was given to another school.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0094par0212	I'll take another look at his current condition and let you know when it's going to be finished, if it's finished.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0102par0213	Sir, he was made in school; he was given to another school; he was not given to school; he was given to imam-hakim high school. That school was given the right school to another school.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0094par0214	All right, I'll look at him, I'll let you know. Other than that, we don't have any work on the status of the academics at the moment, but if you bring up this proposal, I think it's worth discussing with the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Ministry of National Defense. In principle, I think such an arrangement would be in order to ensure that the military of academics is conducted in a manner that will not interfere with their own academic studies.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0103par0216	Just like the teachers...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0094par0217	Like teachers, yeah. This was a meeting earlier during my prime minister's counseling period, at a meeting about the professionalization of the army, which we brought up at the time, so as a former academic, I told the academics that such duties were a homeland service, so it would be appropriate to provide the academics with such an opportunity. You remind me of that again. Let's work on that.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0104par0219	If you'll make up your mind, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0094par0220	I made the necessary statements here yesterday about this union rivalry, the reflections of its executive elections, etcetera. Now, I'm saying this very -- I'm saying this very clearly -- so don't take this as a taunt, another adjective -- is your conscience comfortable? -- things of the kind -- I wouldn't say that if I weren't comfortable.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0105par0221	Say "relax."
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0094par0222	In concrete examples, I even gave you an example, where a book became the subject of polemics. Do other unions have this kind of work? No one's getting through to me.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0105par0223	I'm relaxed. Say, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0094par0224	I'm relaxed, I'm relaxed. You guys relax, I'm comfortable.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0105par0225	For the record, these will be used in the future.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0094par0226	While Mr. Hamzacebi is here... you may not have heard my explanation just now.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0106par0227	I heard your explanation, that's why I came here, Minister.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0107par0228	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question-answer process is over. Mr. Hamzacebi, you have a request for a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0108par0232	Thank you, Mr. President. I just watched Mr. Secretary's statements on TV in my room. That's why I came running here. I made a statement here yesterday. Mr. Secretary, as far as I can tell, he's not giving the right information, he's hiding the facts from the General Assembly. Look, here's the article, Mr. Secretary, written by your Istanbul National Education Assistant. Your assistant director of National Education says that even though this person is on the waiting list, this person is not allowed to attend the school. That's a completely unrealistic statement. For one thing, this person is not on the reserve list, and the last entry point of the Üsküdar American High School is 789. This person's score is 782. So there's no way that a person with a lower score than 789 will be able to apply, and since he has no application, there's no way that he can be on the backup list. There's no reason for you to register a student with 782 points, thousands of student parents, who have stood in line in the school yard, waited in line, had higher scores, and skipped them, Mr. Secretary. There's only one reason, the will to put this person in this school, nothing more. I asked you something yesterday. This procedure is wrong. If you've done a wrong transaction, if you've scored higher than that, then you'll give the students he calls a registration permit that didn't sign up for school in time, your school has a low score, we don't get you, we don't get you. At the moment, four people have issued a notice to Skopjedar U.S. High School. This genius, we're taking these. It doesn't even make it right, because I don't know if thousands of students have registered to other schools, gone, and they'll be able to come back. Your explanation does not reflect the truth, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0109par0239	Mr. President, I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0108par0240	The letters are here, the Ministry's writing here, here in Skopjedar, here in the article that Skopjedar County National Education has written to the school, these articles are unreal.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0110par0241	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0111par0243	My information is correct. In your statement here yesterday, you said: "This child is registered here even though the school's quota is full." Did you say that?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0112par0245	Yeah. With 789 points, the records are closed...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0111par0247	Let's take it one step at a time.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0112par0248	It's always one person from school who can take a record and take it somewhere else.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0111par0249	Mr. Hamzacebi, let's take it one step at a time. Yesterday, you said that this boy was registered at this school under pressure from the Ministry of National Education.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0112par0251	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0111par0252	This is wrong. This school's quota isn't filled, and I have information that there's a student waiting in line who doesn't register at the school.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0112par0253	Look, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0111par0254	There are two quota gaps. This kid's settled into one of two empty quotas, and there's still a quota gap.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0112par0255	There can always be an ejaculation in the quota. When there's an ejaculation, the school announces it on its website and calls students.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0111par0256	No, it's not ejaculation. He wasn't booked at the time either.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0112par0257	Madam Secretary, it's not working.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0113par0258	Yes, thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0114par0259	But it's not being answered properly.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0113par0260	Yes, there are three motions on matter. I'll have it read and processed in order of arrival first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Frame 1 of the 651 Ordered Bill of the Law. Article 1 of the article. Each month, higher education compensation is paid, and we offer and offer the addition of the declaration to local and foreign teaching staff in the civil institutes of higher education. Alim Light Reşat Right Mustafa Kalaycı S. Nevzat Don't Be Afraid, D. Ali Torlak Ahmet Duran Bulut Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Yusuf Halaçoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 1st edition of "The Law Against the Law on Higher Education Staff Law" in 651 rows. In accordance with Article 2914, we propose and provide a change in the first joke of the supplemental 3 article, which is envisioned to be added to the Higher Education Staff Act. Aydın Ağan Ayyayın Aytuğ Thrower Fatma Nur Serter İstanbul Mersin İstanbul Kamer Young Oğuz Oyan Kadir Gökmen Öğün The highest government official under the State Officer's Law is a gross monthly (e.g. A) There are 240 percent of the professor's staff, B) 220% of the academics' staff, c) 180 per cent of the assistant professor staff, D) 160 percent of the researchers' staff, e) 160 percent of the teachers and teachers' staff, f) 160 percent of experts, translators and education-educators are on the staff, Compensation for higher education is paid every month. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 1st article of the 651 row of the Law Bill (e) is to be replaced by Article 3 (a), (b), (a), (a), (a) and (h) to be replaced by "150%" and (e), (e) to be added to the "115%" of the "f" jokes, and to be added to the "150%" (f) joke. The secret is Dareyya Leader Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan (g) 150 per cent of the contract professor staff, (h) 150 percent of all those in the service arms of the university administration, Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0115par0294	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0113par0295	I'm reading the reason: It is a positive arrangement, though it is late to increase the salaries of academics and experts serving in universities, with higher education compensation for the relevant clause. The academics, the academic, the expert, and the administrative staff are one, even though they may be called university employees. With this change, the absence of administrative staff, which constitutes more than half of the university employees, has been incomplete. With this arrangement, the work of administrative staff and these personnel, which are already underprivileged in terms of their rights, has been ignored. Another flaw in the relevant arrangement is the fact that academics in the chartered teaching staff have been excluded from improving. The professors who serve in contracts at universities are having significant problems with their financial and autonomy rights. This sort of classification of academics who do the same work at the same university is wrong in itself, while this injustice is deepened by inequality of wages. On these grounds, this motion envisions the use of contracted professors at universities and staff members in all service units to benefit from higher education compensation. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 1st edition of "The Law Against the Law on Higher Education Staff Law" in 651 rows. In accordance with Article 2914, we propose and provide a change in the first joke of the supplemental 3 article, which is envisioned to be added to the Higher Education Staff Act. A Remembrance of the Mighty heavens and His companions. The highest government official under the State Officer's Law is a gross monthly (e.g. A) There are 240 percent of the professor's staff, B) 220% of the academics' staff, c) 180 per cent of the assistant professor staff, D) 160 percent of the researchers' staff, e) 160 percent of the teachers and teachers' staff, f) 160 percent of experts, translators and education-educators are on the staff, Compensation for higher education is paid every month. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0116par0316	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0113par0317	Kadir Gökmen Öğüt, İstanbul MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0117par0320	Honourable President, I have made a pledge to make changes to the Higher Education Staff Act, ranking 651. Although this bill, which brings new financial rights to university professors, researchers and professors, professors, specialists, translator, educational and educational planners is very late, it is very few, but it is satisfactory, but we think it is not enough, it must be increased. I believe this law should include researchers who are trained in medical schools for the Ministry of Health. As a matter of fact, we're getting numerous demands on this. According to their preferences in medicine after they have won the special exam, a section of them begins to work in the university staff under Higher Education Law 2547 and under the Law on Higher Education, while others work in universities as researchers for the purpose of training, in accordance with State Officers' Law No. 657, while their autonomy rights and staff remain in the Ministry of Health. They do the same work as researchers, as well as job descriptions, training times, working conditions, salaries and payments. The increase to the research workers we're talking about right now is due to be used by researchers who specialize in the Department of Health staff at the university. A raise to academics based on the principle of equal pay is their right, of course. So on behalf of the Ministry of Health, we would like to ask for the participation of the students in the universities as investigators on behalf of our group. Dear MPs, tomorrow is the 33rd anniversary of the establishment of the NGO. However, we should discuss the removal of this institution, which is a product of the coup of September 12th, has been honored daily by the AKP, and is used as an instrument of molding universities. At every opportunity, we express the idea that universities should be independent institutions of capital and power that investigate, produce information, and share it with the community. This is possible only by developing a sense of democracy, where all of the university's components participate in decision-making processes, where the right to speech and authority is provided, in other words, by the liquidation of the SEC, which suppresses universities. We've said it over and over as party policy. On this occasion, once again, on the anniversary of the foundation, I would like to point out that I strongly condemn NGO's oppressive, prohibitive and controlling practices on universities. As a result of these pressures, when an incident such as Soma occurs in Turkey, universities are unable to express a single opinion. We had a referendum, law schools, 46 law schools can't give us a single opinion. The P.A.C., the custody institution, must be removed immediately. Dear lawmakers, there is another issue: The President who still thinks he's the Prime Minister, and now let's give doctors at state hospitals the opportunity to be professors and professors. An arrangement in this direction would undermine the academic system fundamentally. It is not enough that once they discovered the blessings of the SEC, which they themselves did not like, that it was not enough that they used to benefit them, that it was not enough that they came to college for one day after graduating, that it was not enough to be a professor of medicine, that one day without raising students, that it was now the same way. The University of Health Sciences, which awaits law in parliament, and the Charter for Building the President of Turkey's Health Institutes will come to the General Assembly in the coming days. Thus, the government will be able to appoint any names for the new 1,875 staff. He's going to fill the new university professors with names that don't have a single day of college experience. Remember, just two years ago, they built Metin Doğan at the University of Yıldırım Akıt to become an international science center. We all remember how Metin Doğan, who only worked for the Ministry of Health, was made a professor at Sakarya University. We don't forget that Nurullah, the head of the specimen hospital, was appointed a professor without a day's work at Erzincan University Medical School. The assignments you're going to make will cause the system to go completely haywire. Many of these problems will be resolved by the way the salary increases you have predicted, regardless of academic title, are reflected in pensions. I salute all of you by repeating that we support this bill, that the ECHR must be removed at once. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0118par0332	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Frame 1 of the 651 Ordered Bill of the Law. Article 1 of the article. Each month, higher education compensation is paid, and we offer and offer the addition of the declaration to local and foreign teaching staff in the civil institutes of higher education. Ahmet Duran Bulut (Fishesir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0119par0341	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0118par0342	Ahmet Duran Bulut, Balıkesir MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0120par0345	Mr. President, I would like to express my opinion on the amendment to the Higher Education Law, the motion I made in Article 1 of this proposal to improve the salaries of staff, professors at universities and institutes, and their research duties, and their finances. I salute your high council. Our universities -- some of them -- have reached a level that is no longer manageable under the roof of the Ministry of National Education, which has spread throughout Asia Minor. While the Ministry of National Education is continuing its activities on secondary education, elementary education, general education, knitting and widespread education, universities are no longer manageable under the SEC, the problems of professors, the structures of universities, the needs of university students must be transformed into a ministry under the name of the Ministry of Higher Education. But under that roof, they can be found a solution. A support is given to the professors between $725 and $835. This support is taken while they're on duty, not reflected in their retirement. My compliments. Today we see criticism at universities in the most remote parts of Anatolia. Our universities are a manager, a seal. With an understanding of economic interests, let the level of education increase. Here's where we come in the world rankings in education. In order to improve the quality of this, the professor has to put his economic thinking behind him. He should have the means to investigate himself. Is it much better for our teachers in secondary school, elementary school, when they improve the status of their university teachers in Turkey? They're in a tough spot, too. However, since this improvement in higher education is the topic today, many officials who have long been unable to find a solution to this, who have suffered a lot of improvements in their situation, who have suffered a lot of problems in their rights, who have never been assigned to a marriage situation, who have never been granted requests, acceptances, and family unity. In order for all of this to happen, the government, the government's rulers, must resolve them by acting on the country's facts. Turkey is a great country, and its resources are great. It is called, but the resources of this great country do not go to professors, students, universities in Anatolia. Here we talk about our people who lost their lives in accidents, who lost their lives in mining accidents, the impossible. But I'm looking at the flashies of these ministries that spend a little bit of the country's resources, looking at the cars they buy, looking at the prices of cars, almost no country in the world. Compare it to England, compare it to Germany, Turkey is the world's foremost number of official vehicles. Mr. President came to the oath, and I couldn't count their Mercedes. In such a number, I would like to point out that the deputy has built a palace, an enormous palace, a fortress of ambition and ambition. He asked Abuzer, how do you like my palace? If you have done it with your own money, it is a waste, and if you have done it with the people's money, it is unlawful. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit03spe0121par0350	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0121par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 10th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume the talks of Bill 651 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. ADDDE 2-2914 has been added to the following article. EK MADDE 4- For each calendar year, the project, which was concluded in the country or abroad, which contributed to science, technology and art in the previous year, is calculated for an annual degree of academic incentive points for academics over a hundred points for students, based on their work in research, publication, design, exhibition, patents, international meetings on the scientific board and academic awards he received. For those with academic incentives scored thirty and above, the highest state official under the State Officer's Law is gross monthly (including additional indicators); A) For those of the professor's staff, B) For those of the Assoc.ent staff, 90% c) For those of the assistant professor staff, 80% of them, D) For those on the investigative staff, 70 percent, e) For teachers and teachers, 70 percent of the staff, f) For those in the staff of specialists, translator and education-educators, The amount of academic incentives they receive will be paid through the implementation of the place, which will be divided by the face of their academic incentives. The payment shall be paid on the 15th of every month, from the 15th of February to the 15th, by higher education institutions, as long as it is paid monthly according to this law, and from the fifteenth of February, where its staff is held, not subject to any tax, except for the stamp tax. The increase paid under its relevant legislation will not be taken into account in the account of similar payments, no matter what the compensation, compensation, allowance, return capital, additional payments, bonuses, wages, and whatever the name may be. The specifics of the scientific fields and the titles of the academic incentive points, according to the titles of the academics, and the detailed aspects of the activities on the basis of these activities, and the results of these activities are determined by the regulations set by the Council of Ministers on how to calculate the total number of academic activities not to exceed 30% of their academic incentives, the way to calculate academic incentive points, and the establishment of the commission to do these calculations; the proposal of the Higher Education Board, the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and the Council on the proposal of the Ministry of Education. Mustafa Erdem, Ankara MP who has asked on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Articles. Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0122par0021	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the 2nd Amendment. I salute you all with respect and love. First of all, I'd like to express my gratitude to everyone who has brought such a useful law to the care of university professors, universities, academics. Because so far, our universities have always been treated like foster children, even those raised by a lot of college teachers, at least at the point of respect, they've had a problem with not being able to pay attention to their college teachers. Thus, the surrender of university professors' rights, the monitoring of their economic situation in society, and the fact that there is a small contribution to their salaries may be a gain for them. But what I want to say from here is that I think that this economic support given to university professors today is not in line with the title they carry, with the work they do, and with the service they serve our country, with the faculty and with the students they serve so far. For one thing, we need to make it clear that the student that many college teachers have raised is the teachers of bureaucrats who run the country today. Let me give you a very simple example: the student raised by the university teacher passes through the VIP, but the university teacher stands in line at the airport, stands in line and waits for his destiny. At least in Istanbul, between two separate lines, he shares the fate of carrying a book-loaded bag -- if there is no other carrier -- between the domestic lines. I think it's necessary if that wasn't the right thing to do. If we want to build a solution to their problems, if we want to make them high and proud in the community, we can't use the sentence of the university professors. Let's take advantage of the decision. So you can't do a piece of art, a figurine of rotten things. You can see in many paintings it says "Rütbetül-ilime aler retüb. " So in the human arena, the highest rank is science. I think that when we remember how much our honored apocalypse can contribute to the knowledge and service of those who run the Ottoman state, but most importantly, it is not only to save today's death, but to pay attention to them at the point of respect for the trust of God's will and honorable sacrifice, we have to respect them. Dear lawmakers, when we think of our universities, we have to think of professors and professors, not just academics, but as a whole. His student, research worker, professors, professors, and university are one. Who will provide this scholar with the services of this community if he does not share or become a professor of education with whom he does not have a student? Your appreciation is appreciated. So when we think of it as a whole, the values we give the university teacher when we can create a whole that respects moral values, respects human values, respects social values. Now, with these studies, a price of $726 or a price of $800, however you give it, the economic conditions of our country are this big. But what do we do? We can't afford anyone else. If you say we can't afford to defend the honor and honor of those who hold the title of MP in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey from the wastes or from the scraps of those who struggle in luxury to other areas. But come on, come on, see what we can do, the narrow belief, the impossible, the conditions that will prove our country's power in the international arena. Now, we encourage. He's been successful in the international arena, renovated himself by national criteria or based on his work... these are good things, and they're good incentives, but let me remind you: why bring it in after 2015? Let's see if our college teachers have done this before or not. Let's evaluate 2014, and let this board come at the beginning of 2015, take at least one X-ray of the university in the past, show them what they're in, what they're busy with. Dear lawmakers, it is not enough to ensure the desired success at universities that the university teacher is condemned to enter the class to save his fate, to somehow ensure the care of his family's children. So we have to make our universities a research institution, shape the future of the Turkish nation with projects they've produced. Now, look, a lot of colleges have been added to our universities, universities all over Turkey, and I ask you, for God's sake, to give up populism, to bury abuse. As long as this is going on, you have nothing to do with saving the fate of the innocent Turkish nation but to comfort them with the flu, pink paintings that you've drawn and finally bring them to a position that kneels to others in the human arena. There are over 100 universities, over 100 institutes of theology. For God's sake, is there an academic? Is there an investigator? Do you have classrooms? Where do these teachers teach these students or have no students, who does the teacher share his savings with? Let me just give you an example. We've just been told about the University of Whitewater. The year that Yıldırım Akıt University was founded, and now look at its settlements in Ankara. Where's his reactor? Where's med school? Where's the literature school? Where do these people study, where do they study science? Let me give you another example. Yıldırım Çakıt University Faculty of Theology, Ankara (Ataturk Elementary School and Middle School). You can't nail, you can't hang a painting, you can't put a table, you can't put a chair. Friend, don't touch my half, don't interrupt the whole thing, let's eat bread, for God's sake. What kind of an education is that? I'd like to draw your attention to one more thing. This populism is killing the country. Here knowledge is required to teach God, to teach him wisdom, to teach him truth, to teach him knowledge, to teach him respect, to teach him human values. Come on, let's make this 4+4 a proper law so we can save this nation's future. You didn't pay any attention to us here when we said it. Now I'm asking you, who in God's name teaches at Imam-haki schools? Is there a curriculum that you'd like, and can you do this program? Who teaches religion? Does this -- the schools or schools that you desire -- respond to the needs of this nation? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0123par0034	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Oğuz Oyan, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Oyan.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0124par0038	Mr. President, we're talking about the bill of valued lawmakers; salaries are rising in the country. This is certainly a bill that academics have been waiting for, but it's a bill that has been waiting for 14 years. Twelve years of these 14 years are also the AKP period. So there was a period of 14 years when academics both experienced real income corroding against inflation, as well as a relative setback to other public officials' categories. So let's not forget that, one. So it's a very delayed bill. For these fourteen years, it is no longer possible to compensate for the loss of well-being of academics, the understanding that eliminates the charms of universities caused by these relatively low salaries, and all kinds of shocks and scientific inadequacies caused by this. So, does the bill cover past income losses? Unfortunately, we can't talk about a salary increase that covers past income losses. Assoc.ent, assistant professor, all categories of researchers will be sentenced to be paid under around 4,000 lira -- a family of four -- with a poverty limit. I mean, imagine these are college teachers, some of the parts that we probably don't have to sit in the slums, and think about what challenges they're doing research and training. Now, in fact, this inequality, this inadequacy, is actually raised by the fact that teachers don't get a raise in actual salaries and they get a raise in side payments. So the professor's pension level is certainly not taken into account, and even though many academics are retired, they have a productive academic activity, researchers and so on. All of this, the retirement period, is being punished. Thus, we are faced with a very imperfect law in this regard. It looks like there's a raise in two areas, two channels. One, higher education compensation; we met in article 1. Two, the grant of academic incentives is now within the scope of this clause. So this academic incentive grant is already listed in the third article, which will be implemented from 2016. So it's not valid for today, over the 2015 broadcast and so on. Let's also say here that different kinds of science can be broadcast at different levels and so on. So there's going to be new inequality here, too. And there's nothing in this bill on how to calculate this academic incentive grant. He's leaving it in a regulation in four months. So here we are, creating a half-baked bill, a law. And then the Council of Ministers will put the sauce on this sauce, which is no sauce, but we don't know how. So we don't know what the bill we've come up with, but this academic incentive grant isn't going to be equal to everyone once, so maybe there's something that some people won't be able to benefit from. Secondly, two deviations will continue because of the lack of autonomy rights and the inadequacy of today. One of these deviations is an additional lecture scandal that's been eating colleges for 30 years. A lot of schools -- central universities, rural universities -- and so they're constantly turning college students into a teaching machine by night and day. It is impossible for such a university professor to take time to study, not even to read enough to renew his own course; there are university professors who teach thirty and forty hours a week, which is a disgrace. Second, low wages lead to something else, leads to project addiction. I mean, college professors are always wasting time trying to find a project in pursuit of EU funds. Now, so, if we could at least do this here, if there were some research funds that were assigned to universities, and the universities were to assign them to departments, at least if there were no waste of time, such as the pursuit of funds for their faculty, their employees. A third area of problems is trying to achieve equity rights through performance-based projects, research -- which is what we're dealing with in Article 2 -- to evaluate professors through certain concepts of the market through market indicators, such as competition, competition, quality. But creativity and scientific production should be the basis, so private business performance criteria shouldn't be involved. The fourth one has an inextricable integrity with the rights of identity and the job guarantee. So we increase your rights of freedom, we increase your wages, but we don't increase your job security. When you say, "I'm sorry." When you say, "The university's educational staff, the research staff and assistant professors, the increase in salary, you're finally facing the formula." So one of the most urgent things to do is to make assistant professors permanent staffs, to remove the condition of renovation every three years, and to make sure that researchers are identified not 50/d, but 33/a, and to provide job security. Well, then we can really talk about improving the rights of equity. The fifth is the massacre of assistants in universities, the massacre of researchers, fucking investigations, pressure and control mechanisms, unlawfulness, union, association and organizational hostility, police control at the university. This has to stop right now. It is only possible, however, to improve the quality of the university, to ensure the peace of working at the university. We know how such massacres have led to the massacre of researchers at Istanbul Technical University, and because of the rector's special attitude, how professors at the Army University have been put under investigation because they have joined the panels in some foreign areas, and I am watching it myself. The sixth issue required improvements in the wages of non-scientific staff under the integrity of universities. These institutions also need to stop subcontractorizing. So, when you raise the salaries of university professors, when you keep the officers working within the same institution separate, when you exclude them, you can't provide the conditions of working in harmony within the same institution. The seventh is that university administrations must be democratized. So, from every part of the university, from the lowest category, from the professor in status -- research worker, assistant professor, etc -- to his student, to even his administrative staff, to be able to participate in management, to form a democratic structure. We can't really organize universities in a public capacity unless the eighth is called a private education model in universities, such as these foundations. Therefore, we will not be able to solve the problem of free education, housing and scholarship. The ninth is that universities are the mirrors of society's development. Scientific autonomy and freedom are as indispensable to universities as bread and water. Hierarchical structures, officer mentality, pressure of faith and politics, siege, mentality, rurality are factors that will end the university. We find all of these factors in the government and the government's policies. If we want this toxic weather to be lifted over the universities, we have to remove and bury the shawl that an NGO covers over these universities. Now we have to see the inversely proportional relationship between the number of universities and the decline of the quality of higher education. Science declines in Turkey. In Turkey, universities are becoming higher schools. The average quality of teaching members decreases. College students are downgraded. In Turkey, industrialisation has a bilateral causal relationship between the growth of technology addiction and the recession of the university. With so much evil being done to universities, improving their rights can't be seen as a blessing. Colleges and college teachers deserve better. Turkey deserves a better science and university policy. Turkey misses modern power. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0125par0058	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Demir Çelik is an MP for Mush. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0126par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love on behalf of myself and my party. I'd like to express my thoughts, feelings about the bill for university personnel in the current rank of 651. First of all, I'd like to say that I find it unacceptable that the laborers who have been producing science for years have been deprived of the wages they deserve, but I do want to say that we will take the step, and we will consider it inadequate, and we will help carry out this law enforcement activity. But to have an institution and an institutional identity is to see the university as a whole, which means that the government should be approaching the problem, but in every case and in every problem, there is an approach and a mentality that is trying to address the problem in society with a palliative, temporary, pragmatist approach, a procrastination, a delaying, but effective approach to power. First of all, universities need to be saved from the idea of education that exists, that exists, that is unique, that is assimilationist and unscientific, so first of all, for thirty-three years, the fact that the spear doesn't fit in the sack anymore, that we can't handle it, that the Constitution needs to be removed quickly, along with the removal of the SEC. If you do not remove the ECHR, when you do not grant administrative, financial and political autonomy, the university serves power and capital, depending on the hierarchy, but avoids meeting the needs of society and society. That's what's happening in Turkey today. We can boast that we've opened 184 universities, which is admirable when we look at quantity, but if we don't have quality in universities that we've reached 184, without quality, without scientific or free education, without administrative, financial, political autonomy, if I don't have democratic governance, then this university is no different from middle school, high school, equivalent schools. Besides, the graduation of a university where college graduates can't find jobs and lack their vocational work is of great value, and in that sense, there's no social value. However, universities, yes, are bound to be restored, but the law in question seems to be acting on the understanding of an opportunistic merchant who wants to get out of it. I mean, could there be a law to serve power and capital? In that sense, there is another audience that we have forgotten, along with improving the conditions of university education and faculty, updating their salaries. The university does not consist of education, teaching and academics alone; there are administrative employees; there are labourers working in university hospitals based on subcontracting policy; there are subcontractors in their settlements and campuses. Yes, professors' salaries are below the poverty line, it's a shame, it's a sin, it's supposed to be healing, it's supposed to be updating, but the minimum wage we're subject to subcontracting is pathetic when we consider the union and organizationlessness of our fellow workers. In this regard, the university, let alone scientific education, scientific autonomy management, can't open up the historical, political problems of the existing society. It also appears that the AKP is now in a reckoning of the power it has entered into in its thirteenth year, the success and the ability to govern, the promise to hope once again, and in that sense, to solve some of the needs of the community, in the hope that it will postpone it to the 2015s, the 2016s, the 2016s, the hope of a group of peoples, the hope that it will abandon, the hope, the hope, the hope, the hope. Power must be rid of this disease. Besides, if universities lack scientific and free education, if universities are scientific and broke, but are free of democratic and autonomous status, they lack the capacity to pioneer society, but they also lack the free will to meet their technological, industrial and economic needs. And if you go to 184 on this side, if society and society are deprived of freedom, if the needs of society and society are not met on the legitimate and democratic ground, if we approach the problem of a hundred years of self-centered understanding as we approach the problem of the nation, the unitary state, then we can't have given it a scientific education, a scientific quality. In this sense, the AKP government must, above all, give up its self-centered and rigid, singular, assimilationist policies. The 2015 budget will come in front of us, and it will be seen that a similar illness in its 13-year power, which separates this budget into a war, which divides this budget into assimilation, which instead of denying and meeting the needs, serves to clothe the society of a state's state power, the president, the prime minister, the minister, the bureaucrat's minister, and a decorated state device to provide for the needs of its bureaucrats. Yes, this is how universities should be a home of education, education, and universities should be restored to autonomous, democratic governments where they are educated with no money, scientific education. The autonomy of this delayed effort, of course, of my step to the years of making it, falls to the AKP (AKP), who is betting on power, who is promising hope for society through its power. It is our duty to the opposition, the People's Democratic Party, to invite the government and the AKP to free it from its error, to send a scalpel to the society's problems that have been piling up, that cannot be altered, that cannot be postponed, that can't be hidden, that can't be avoided. The AKP avoids, instead of seeking radical solutions, the AKP does not take more than a step towards taking the accumulated gas of society, but also prevents it from taking action. In that sense, society's resources, labor, time, are more wasted than ever. Perhaps it is possible that the employee's salaries will be updated, you may have gone to a recovery that corresponds to a number above the poverty line, but if he lacks the rights to self-restraint, if he will be deprived of this salary as long as he leaves his academic title, or if he will not be able to benefit from the severance pay when he retires, if he will be denied the power of the office he has invaded, the office he has performed, then it is not moral, it is not moral. It's an understanding that only and alone will serve to save the entity, which I hope will not be fooled by the scientists and their workers who practice science. First of all, a scientist has to do his science more freely and autonomously than feed his hungry stomach. When you can't finish your political custody, when you have the hierarchical, hegemonic power of the YKK, which swings on universities like the sword of Damocles, you can't find the autonomous and free will to meet the needs of this university, while the president has the hierarchical and hegemonic power of the university, you can't find the autonomous and free will to meet the needs of this community. In this sense, universities and university workers need free will to serve spiritual form rather than material conditions. It's the House's duty to provide free will. The House must carry out its mandate, and at the point that it cannot be immediately postponed is an equal, free, democratic constitution, which has no place in this constitution to remove the NGO, saying that society's political, social, cultural, democratic needs should be met, I offer respects.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0127par0072	Thank you. Kamer Young, Tunceli MP, who has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0128par0076	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on Article 2 of Law Proposal 651. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, of course, the universities of a country, the people who do the training, the backbone of that country, to me, is the basis. In order for them to perform a healthy task, they need to have a salary that can provide for them in every way in life. But, of course, with this material brought in, under the academic incentive grant, university officials, professors, professors, and officials are expected to be paid a certain amount of money, but such a complex substance has been brought in, how to calculate it, it's a complete riddle. Although there is money in the Commission text to be paid according to this clause to the professor, professor and other people between 726 and 508 liras, but here, here, he has the authority to determine that. In my opinion, there's no point in leaving it in the regulations because this is the legislature. Here, in the legislature, they need to be determined by the amount of these, but for some reason, the law is always half-assed here, not being properly investigated, and it's being put in this position. Congressmans, of course, in fact, there is no national education left in Turkey, there is no national education left in Turkey. After this Nabi Hunter came to the Ministry, he performed practices that would lead the national educational system into the dark of the Middle Ages. Now, you know that the 4+4+4 law is being discussed by the Turkish National Education Commission for the Grand National Assembly. And they brought them, and set up in front of the stand 150 AKP men. We, as the Republican People's Party, read the articles, say, does anyone want a word on Madde? We say there is. It says, "There is." It says, "There isn't." A full dark, black commission in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and they brought it in as they wanted, without debate in the Commission. After that, they destroyed education in Turkey, turned it into madrasa education, brought it into medieval darkness. If you look at universities, there's 90 percent of the rectors from the AKP; the rectory has nothing to do with the professors. They use colleges like their father's farms. They put their own relatives, what they want, into teaching staffs, they can't assign what they don't want. There are things that are not done based on proper, knowledge-based, educational, research-based things. So as far as I can see, all the traps that should have existed to be taken to the full Middle Ages darkness of Turkey, and the education system based on science, logic, modernity that that Ataturk had brought to mind, was destroyed. Of course, we'll see how this goes further. From now on, you can't see a decent professor growing up in Turkey because colleges don't have proper education. This Minister of National Education has just turned the schools upside down. Now, things have come to pass that friends bring the boy who was tested in İstanbul from basic education to secondary school, and send him to school in Tunceli. What kind of nonsense is that? I mean, I'm actually gonna say the word they deserve, but I feel sorry for those words in my mouth. After that, they forced me to read the Koran. He says: "I don't want to learn the Koran. " The religion teacher is leaving, and why are you Christian?" he says. Yeah, it's none of your business, bro! What kind of a thing is that, guys? In Turkey, they turned all schools into imams. They put the 9-year-old's head in the black sheet. Is this the Republic of Turkey? Is this the level that the state of the Republic of Turkey should see in the world? Not like this. I mean, who do you serve? Why are you afraid of science and light? Why are you afraid of people with bright minds, of people who train, of people who study, of people who serve science? Is everyone supposed to be as square as you? That's not gonna happen, guys. They destroyed Turkey. For him, I mean, when this Nabi Hunter comes here, I don't even stoop to asking questions because the man in front of me is a person I really hate. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0129par0086	Thank you. There are four motions on the matter, and I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following joke be added to Article 2 of the current Bill of the Law. Mustafa Elitaş Ahmet Aydın Mihrimah Belma Kın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hilmi Bilgin Demir Çelik Kadir Gökmen Öğüt Recep Special Ahmet Duran Bulut These provisions also apply to the academics in the Turkish Armed Forces. To the presidency of TBM, Box 2 of Bill 651. Article 1 of the article. In advance of the declaration of the higher education members, the local and foreign national (pronouncement) of the military and civil higher education institutions; and at the end of the joke, the higher-than-30 points are paid academic incentives for half the above rates. We offer and propose that the sentence be added. Mustafa Kalaycı S. Nevzat Unafraid Reşat Right Ahmet Duran Bulut Yusuf Halaçoğlu Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu D. Ali Torlak Alim Light Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 2nd Amendment to the Higher Education Staff Act, number 651, which is currently in session, is part of the 2nd Amendment bill. In accordance with Article 2914, we propose and propose that the second joke of the additional 4th article, which is expected to be added to the Higher Education Staff Act, should be changed in the following way. Aydın Agha Ayyaydın Fatma Nur Serker Aytüğ Atı For those with academic incentives scored thirty and higher, the highest state official under the State Officer's Law is gross monthly (e.g. A) For those of the professor's staff, b) 180 per cent of the professor's staff, c) To 160 per cent of the assistant professor staff, D) To 140 percent of the investigative staff, e) For the teacher and the teachers, f) To those in the staff of specialists, translators, and educational and educational planners, The amount of academic incentives they receive will be paid through the implementation of the place, which will be divided by the face of their academic incentives," he said. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under Article 2 of the Common Law Bill 651, we request and demand the removal of Article 4 of the Article No. 2914, dated 11/10/1983, to be added to the Higher Education Staff Act. The secret is Dareyya Leader Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0130par0128	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0131par0129	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0129par0130	I'm reading the reason: With this change, it should be known that the government is trying to legalise performance-based wage implementation under academic incentives. This effort will speed up the academic community's progress towards income-profit jobs, instead of solidarity between workers, and the declination of universities from colleges. That's why this motion was made. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 2nd Amendment to the Higher Education Staff Act, number 651, which is currently in session, is part of the 2nd Amendment bill. In accordance with Article 2914, we propose and propose that the second joke of the additional 4th article, which is expected to be added to the Higher Education Staff Act, should be changed in the following way. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends For those with academic incentives scored thirty and higher, the highest state official under the State Officer's Law is gross monthly (e.g. A) For those of the professor's staff, b) 180 per cent of the professor's staff, c) To 160 per cent of the assistant professor staff, D) To 140 percent of the investigative staff, e) For the teacher and the teachers, f) To those in the staff of specialists, translators, and educational and educational planners, The amount of academic incentives they receive will be paid through the implementation of the place, which will be divided by the face of their academic incentives," he said. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0132par0149	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0129par0150	It's Aytug Horseman, Mersin MP who wants a word on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0133par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, I have made a commitment to the bill for higher education staff number 651 and to our motion on Article 2 of this bill. I salute all the people who truly believe in science, who really don't, with respect and love. Dear friends, you're raising the salary of the faculty here, so I guess there's nothing anyone can say about that. So, if I ask you a question, if I were to say, what's the poverty limit in this country? The new number is $3.926. In this case, do you, even with this arrangement, even by implementing this arrangement, realize what level of teaching you are pushing below the poverty line and condemning the poor? I don't think you are. I'll tell you: the assistant professor and all the academic staff below will remain under the poverty line despite this practice. Here's what our motion says: let's be a little more human and double the amount of academic incentives, at least the academic staff in Turkey will be above the poverty line. That's what we're proposing, and I'm telling you right now that you're going to reject it, and I know that's how you're going to put it on the record. That's what I'm gonna say everywhere, every panel, every college meeting. Hopefully, you'll agree and embarrass me. See, when you're doing this app, I mean, when you're raising wages, are you sincere? You're not sincere, and you're not sincere in any way. Why? I see, during the government, we have no Minister of National Education, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0134par0158	There's an old professor.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0133par0159	The Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs will speak to the professors in a moment about something related to education, he even said, "Do you agree?" he said, "Mr. Minister, we don't agree." He said as a government. Well, I understand if you're thinking with a jungle head, I understand if you're thinking with a water head, but with what mentality our Minister of Education isn't here, the government disagrees, and I offer that to your appreciation.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0134par0160	Yeah, I've been a professor for 30 years.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0133par0161	You're not sincere. Why aren't you sincere? I'm looking into your alibi. Look, I didn't write it, Mr. Prime Minister, and you're saying that in order for us to achieve our goals in 2023, we need to produce information to become one of the number of countries in the world in science, technology, economics. On the other hand, your mind is not really an inventor. You're not sincere. That's your true mindset, but you're good at saying fancy things. You're not sincere. Look, AKP MPs, don't jump, I'm not telling you anything, I'm telling the government. Be sincere, and say to your government: "Woe to you! You say that, but what you say doesn't add up. You're saying there are 177 universities in our country as of October 2014. You're bragging. On the other hand, Mr. Prime Minister is embarrassingly speaking in his opening speech -- he says, "Sir, these professors! Ah, ah! We've done so much college, but we can't find qualified faculty. He despises all professors because he is a qualified professor. You're not sincere, that's what I'm trying to tell you, you're not sincere. On the one hand, you're saying that through the student body, we're showing this education, we're doing it. These professors must be very good. On the other hand, you continue to produce jet professors. He's leaving, Mr. President. He says, "What if we make professors and doctors who work at this hospital?" Lickers start clapping, clapping, clapping, of course. He says, "We'll do it." And he tries to do it. Gee, what reason, what conscience, what mind do you have to say that? Let's make these kids professors, professors. That's your understanding. And for that, I'm ashamed. The Prime Minister who submitted this bill is an academic. I'm really ashamed of him for sending such a bill and talking about it. I'm just saying that science has never understood the spirit of humanity, never understood it, and I'm paying respects.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0135par0166	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. To the presidency of TBM, Box 2 of Bill 651. Article 1 of the article. In advance of the declaration of the higher education members, the local and foreign national (pronouncement) of the military and civil higher education institutions; and at the end of the joke, the higher-than-30 points are paid academic incentives for half the above rates. We offer and propose that the sentence be added. Reşat Right (Tokat) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0136par0175	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0135par0176	It's Reşat Right, Slap Congressman who wants a word on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0137par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on Article 2 of the Law Bill 651. I salute the High Council. This motion is also our view of raising salaries or fees that will be given to our professors. And in this view, we want to say, let's at least have some of the incentive fund in education, so let's give it to all of our students with 30 points. We have an idea that the rest of the work will be on top of it. That's what we're proposing. The thing is, of course, this kind of law has been expected by university professors for years. So everywhere we go, every time we go to college, every person from their professor to their professor to their expert says: "Ya, our salaries are very small; we can't provide for our family, let alone our own needs. So let a study be done about it. Honourable MPs, of course, we've been trying to bring that up all the time. In particular, one health staff and two of our university professors have been waiting for some kind of bill to be delivered for years. However, the amount of money brought in by the law is between $726 and $835 -- almost at the latest increase in coal hikes, gas hikes, electricity hikes -- that can't even afford them when you put them all on top of each other. So we think that if they were being brought in, at least, they would have to be at a rate where men could be happy or make a living. Here are the questions we asked yesterday, the questions we asked today, Mr. Minister of National Education, unfortunately not responding. They're giving him some answers. But apparently, these people have been waiting for this growth for a long time, but the increase at every point is very small, very inadequate. And in that sense, we can't help but think about how this law was set up or why it happened this way. Honourable lawmakers, of course, must also be included in retirement. So now we're doing a salary increase here, and he's not going to retire. Our pensioners already have a lot of problems. In those problems, the assistant professors of our university professors, especially the assistant professors, have suffered a great deal in their retirement. They've been waiting for an increase in this direction for years, waiting for an adjustment, asking for additional payments to increase their coefficients to a certain rate. But interestingly enough, there's nothing in that law. We proposed a law on that, about assistant professors. But our proposal of the law is mentioned here as being discussed, but I'd like to say that none of those suggestions we've made have any of them. Of course, one of the biggest demands of university professors is the staff. The professor's staff, the other staff... it's really over the top of the line. But besides, there's a serious lack of assistants in services right now, especially in college hospitals. Look, I'm the Slap Congressman. We have a very beautiful medical school at Gaziosmanpaşa University. In general surgery at medical school, assistants in cardiology take specialists, specialists, no assistants in his place, so there's no staff. Therefore, we are faced with very serious problems. We're asking the authorities again: Why are you doing this like this? I mean, if she's an assistant there, why don't you fill in for the assistant who's an expert, or do you make sacrifices like that? There are many problems like this. Of course, in the opinion of this law, especially from university professors to students, everyone wants us to call and discuss certain issues. Again, some university professors called us, and they say: "We have people, professors, who are temporarily appointed according to Article 30 of the Law of Universitys, but are not paid for and paid for." Honourable lawmakers, this sacrifice must be resolved. If he needs a staff, and these people have been reassigned, why don't we give those people their dues? Sure, we're dealing with a lot of problems like this. Again, in particular, the Minister of National Education -- Mr. Minister -- one of the most important problems of our country now is fighting drugs. Look, there's a project called Project ESBAT. The meaning of this project is to investigate the fight against drugs in European countries in elementary schools, high schools. It's interesting that since 2004, our Turkey is not allowed to investigate this. So the research had a removal of Turkish people's customs and customs, but this is being implemented all over the world. If you have any thoughts about him, put them aside, in case the ESBAT Project is implemented. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0138par0193	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following joke be added to Article 2 of the current Bill of the Law. These provisions also apply to the academics in the Turkish Armed Forces. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We're leaving it to our appreciation, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0139par0203	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit04spe0138par0204	I'm reading the reason: The academics in the Turkish Armed Forces are also intended to benefit from academic incentives. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0138par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 10th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume the talks of Bill 651 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 3-2914. The regulation specified in Article 10-Act 4 will be enforced within four months. According to the first joke of Article 4, it is the first time that academic incentive points are calculated for 2016, based on activities carried out in 2015. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Aykan Erdemir is an MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0140par0010	Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, our great nation watching us on the screen, the opinion of the Republican People's Party on academic increase is clear; it's not enough, but yes. Why isn't it enough, but yes? Because according to Turkish-İsk-İsti's research on poverty, the poverty limit of a family of four in Turkey is $3,926 as of October. The academic increase, unfortunately, is not enough to get our researchers, our professors and assistant professors above the poverty line. Deprived academics mean falling behind in science and technology; to make science poor is to condemn Turkey to poverty. We also expressed that the rights earned by this law are not reflected in retirement. Let us also remind you that the academic incentive grant will also take place starting in 2016, and that the scientists will have to wait a year for this additional source. But let us not forget that academics in Turkey are not only interested in bread; academics want freedom as much as bread, they want freedom. Science, art and culture abandon oppressive environments, prefers institutions and countries dominated by freedom. I don't think you guys understand that fact. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan described Middle East Technical University as a leftist, atheist, terrorist. Shame on them, too, if that's how these teachers train their students. We don't need teachers like that. He said. The ODTÜ family, which I am proud to be a member of, did not deal with these inappropriate attacks. But Erdogan's best response was the Times Higher Education list. This index selected ODTÜ (ODTÜ) as one of the world's 100 best universities in the 85th world, giving Turkey that pride. All the snoring, all the humiliation, all the humiliation he's seen from his own politicians, the ODTÜ family that allowed us to see a Turkish university from the top 100 on the list of world universities, salute the ODTÜ people who compete with the world in science and technology, instead of being exposed to pepper spray and TOMA water. But our report card in science and education is not limited to the fracture in ODTU, we have other shames. For example, you have placed the grandson of the Turkish Jewish Congregation Rabbi Mr. Isaac Haleva Τ at TEOG and Chilean Imam Hatip High School. You have placed an Armenian student from İstanbul Kadıköy in Rize Tetovo Anadolu Imam Hatip High School. The distance between the student's house and his school is 1,148 kilometers. This student has to travel 2,296 kilometers to get to and from school every day. If he comes to this school every day and comes to this school, he takes 17 days to take turns, tours around the world once, goes to the moon in a school year, goes back and forth twice before he finishes high school. Again, you have placed a student of the Istanbul Special Pangalt Armenian Middle School at Anatolian Imam Hatip High School. It's your work, I'm afraid, the work of TEOG. This freak is your creation, you can be proud. In 2011, right after the election, we knew it wasn't going to go right. What did you do? As one of your first acts, you ended the scientific freedom and structural autonomy of the Turkish Academy of Sciences, with a bag of provisions added to the ruling on the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. For some reason, you've always identified the academy, science, agriculture and animalism. Perhaps that's why you appointed a zoo director as the director of TÜBITAK's National Academic Network and Information Centre Institute. I think when the road is near, get the universities from the YÖK, put them through to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting. The 17 professors and the two members appointed by TÜBITAK have no international broadcasts. There is not a single international reference to the work of 22 of the appointed members. That is why 58 members of the TUBA have refused to be coy and have resigned from ÜBA. Look, what they told you in their letter of resignation is that other than the influence of the Academies, governments, business and all kinds of pressure groups, they don't interfere in the membership elections of institutions outside the academy. As scientists who have been elected to the Turkish Academy of Sciences and adopted scientific methods and principles of academic integrity, freedom and honesty, we are number 651 and 662 of TUBA. We see that he has lost the ability to become an academy with new configurations of appointing him as a member and president by the government, the SEC and the TÜBITAK Science Board. Despite all our efforts and contacts, that hasn't changed. Many academies and international academy units from all over the world have made it clear by their messages to the top authorities of our country and to the TUBA, that the institutions that did not choose themselves cannot be considered an academy. Therefore, we are regretting our membership in the TÜBA, and we are announcing our resignation. But you ignored the protest of these 58 honorable scientists. Today, at the Academy of Sciences, they fight the struggle of science, skepticism, criticism in independent, autonomous association. Again, another vision of your universities was reflected in the New Dawn newspaper, which became your PRRAVDA. New Dawn newspaper writer Yusuf Kaplan, in his article titled "20 proposals to Erdoğan" on August 15, 2014, proposed what great educational policy: ▪ Boğaziçi, Bilkent and ODTÜ must be destroyed. (The three universities he proposed to destroy should be the proud institutions of Turkey. ODTÜ ranked 85th in the world, Bosphorus ranked 139, Bilkent 201. When I thought about this proposal, I thought, "Let's tear it down a pickaxe, a shovel; let's do it. We need an Architect Sinan of the Law." Yes, you can really tear down the Bilkent and ODTÜ, you can drown it in gas, you can drown it in TOMA water, but you can't make an ODTÜ, a Bilkent, a Boğaziçi's brick. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Unfortunately, our nation is sometimes led by the insane Abrahams, sometimes by the Sultan Solomons of the Law. I believe that, sooner or later, they end up in this land, each water finds its bed again, and again, in Turkey, the mind dominates politics. I would like to end with the words of Professor Engin Umut Akkaya, who won the TÜBİTAK Prize from members of the TÜBİTAK in faith that today's mental eclipse will end one day. This is what our teacher says: an attempt to seize an autonomous institution, a political adult, who occasionally does things he doesn't like, without asking for an opinion from the TUBA to show that he doesn't value a scientist. Both science and scientist migrate from a place they're not appreciated. We'll see about that, I'm afraid. The first group to be assigned will be handpicked from those who will have the least reaction. The upperparts will be placed slowly, always at ease. That's the kind of note I wanted to make today. What did you do when you fell? If a young academic asks me, 20 years later, I'll have a few words to say. There's no need to despair. No term lasts forever, says the Engin Hodja. So we sign under your words. We know that no term lasts forever. Every mental eclipse will come to an end one day. Even if all members of a society have lost their way in an authoritarian darkness, young people and students will bring the community back to light, just as the group of White Roses is the largest public resistance to Nazi Germany, which is being kept sane. We know and believe that in the universities of Turkey, there are many white roses, many red carnations, many free and honorable students, our education workers, our faculty. All hail from here.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0141par0021	Thank you. Suleiman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, has asked for a statement on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0142par0025	Mr. President, I have been promised to share with you the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the 3rd article of the bill, which has changed the SEC Staff Act. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, the summary of the bill has been expressed several times. It's a draft to improve the living conditions of our university professors who are really trying to produce and develop information under very difficult circumstances, and also to improve their reputations in the working environment. We support it as the National Movement Party because it has a partial improvement in it. While the drafting of the law was matured in the National Education Commission, the proposals for the National Movement Party to include thousands of researchers and experts in the universities have also been met. We have a debt of gratitude to all members of the Commission who support this proposal, especially members of the National Education Commission's National Movement Party. Otherwise, there would have been great injustices, dear lawmakers. Sir, you can't say we're short on healing, that's all we have. There used to be a story about sharing a cake in economics class, so let's grow the cake first, and then we'll look at the distribution. The modern world no longer accepts this, it presents human development indexes, and it says: "Forget about pushing the future pie-sharing dream, today it's fair to share this cake. I want to express that I'm not so sure that the political will, which finds 2 quadrillion in illegal palaces and private planes, can heal teachers like bird food, but also to share it with the public. As the National Movement Party, there can be no future of a state that does not respect science and knowledge, which does not show respect for a scientist, which does not pave the way for science. Our diagnosis is that the real problem is the political power that opens these universities that can't raise professors and faculty. The issue of both academic and administrative strengthening of our universities, which are a home of science, and the ability to sustain scientists' lives as human beings and to establish opportunities for scientific working environment, must be immediately discussed and immediately prepare for university reform. As the National Movement Party, if you bring such a bill, I'd like to express our readiness to support it. We're recommending a amendment to this clause, my dear friends. Let's start the academic incentive application in 2015 and move it up a year. Can you delay the cost of living a year, can you put inflation back a year? Well, then we have to admit that the late rights don't hold up justice. Dear lawmakers, how Turkey has developed, how it's developed, how it's developed, the AKP government, as it is in practice, shouts at the nation with 70 TV channels every day. What we say is politics, but what does Turkey look like on the outside? Objectively, I'd like to share the numbers with you. Look, Forbes Magazine listed the countries according to the welfare index. For twelve years, the AKP has ruled without interruption and survived. Look at Turkey as it calls it: 87, in the most prosperous countries, 130, in terms of rights and freedoms, 89, in terms of education, 99, in the ruling category 55, and 54, in health. Turkey doesn't even exist in the top 50 percent of any category, dear friends. We are the third worst country in the world, after Chile and Mexico, in the justice of income distribution. If you ask me where we stand on these criteria, I just want to point out that we're off the charts so you don't get upset. Dear MPs, yesterday in the AKP Group, in order to cover up their own incompetence, failure, unfairly and unfairly, Prime Minister Davutoglu spoke big words to the National Movement Party. Someone told him that the more you smeared Erdoğan's shadow on him, the more you slandered the National Movement Party, the more you slandered him. He must have said that instead of expressing what he had done or what he would do, he made a habit of slandering the National Movement Party. What's he gonna tell you, though? What's he gonna tell you? You want him to tell you how he brought the country to the brink of a hot war during the State Department, or how he screwed up our foreign policy? Let him speak. We consider him to be. The opposition, which brought up 1 quadrillion dollars worth of White Palace and 460 trillion private aircraft, is almost as if the AKP spokesmen were repeating the chorus of the text that had been memorized to them, sir, and this is the building of the President of the Republic of Turkey as well as the Prime Minister of Turkey, they say. It doesn't suit you, does it? It'll fit. But dear friends, they're good for workers, they're good for officers, they're good for peasants, they're good for minimum wage, they're good for miners. You're walking around like a nation's man. The people of this world are those who make it seem attractive to their people, not to them. Isn't that the same logic? What is the source of this wealth? Where does this wealth come from, wherever it comes from, we don't answer in the courts? Look, the mentality that says, "Look, it's not ours, it's the same mentality. Davutoglu says that we are servants, not judges of this nation. Instead of building 400 schools each with 30 students to study, build about 1.4 quadrillion liras of White Palace, sir, instead of building 70-80 hospitals, buy a private plane for $465 trillion. Mr. Davutoglu, were you a servant of this nation when you lived in a villa where the state has a State Department residence with a monthly rent of $49 billion? Mr. Konya MP, Mr. Davutoglu, either look as you are or be as you appear. At yesterday's group meeting, Deputy Chancellor Davutoglu tells the Nationalist Movement Party: "Look at the August 17th Marmara earthquake instead of criticizing Ermenek." Yes, let's look together, Mr. Prime Minister. On August 17th, only Izmit, not only Sakarya, had 14 provinces of earthquakes, and that was the heart of the Turkish economy. More than 60,000 lives were lost, some 500,000 were destroyed, or severely damaged, and the 57th government knew how to handle the disaster of this century. I remind Davutoglu, who said, "They have not been able to reach the scene of the depression in a week. These 18 lives in Ermenek have been waiting to be saved for a full week in that pit of death where you put our lives in. Those who haven't been able to reach that mine pit next to you for a week and couldn't reach the area during the August 17th earthquake, even the crows are laughing at the fact that he said it. Mr. Prime Minister, you're talking big talk about the August 17th earthquake and the coalition government, but you're failing in the mine disaster, and you're failing in your hometown. Don't they tell the guy he can't see the trash in his eye yet, you're dealing with glass in someone else's eye? Dear friends, where is the state? The state is here, the state is everywhere. It says Mr. Davutoglu. Minister of Interior Ala also says that the PKK has begun to dominate cities. (The government needs to be saved from those men who don't know how to run a state.) Before we ask where the state is, we need to ask, "Where is the state man?" I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0143par0044	Thank you. Aytuğ Aterı, Mersin MP, who has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0144par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a personal pledge on Article 3 of the bill for the increase of higher education staff in 651 rows. I salute you all. My dear friends, in my speech earlier, I told you that you were not sincere to this bill. Now I'd like to talk about your perspective on education. Now, your view of education, especially your view of academic education, has actually summarized, Mr. President. Our Minister of National Education... I don't know how much our Minister of Education would agree, but let's make professors of these doctors who work at the hospital. It's the mentality of your academic education. Look, Mr. Secretary, the professors at the medical school thank you for the raise, we've talked today, they say thank you to all of us, we'll get paid to do research but we can't afford to do research because of you, we can't do research so we can get the money you've assigned us. The faculty members of the education school... Minister, I don't know if I can hear myself up there. Minister, can you hear me all the way over there?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0145par0057	He's coming.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0146par0058	Mr. Horseman, please address the General Assembly, sir. Please...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0144par0059	Thank you, Minister. The faculty of the medical school say that because of you, we are dying, we are finished, we are finished, we have no power to do research, and because of you, our return capital is ruined, we are unable to buy any research materials from our labs. Just so you know, Mr. Secretary. Whatever science you're going to do, do it. The professors who work in education schools or other schools say that we can't lift our heads from the second course, what research are you talking about? So there's no point in this kind of money you're going to give us. Look, a professor from the AKP just spoke here, and he said, "Do you believe that the professor means that I am a professor, that I am a professor, that I am going to do my own way?" Now, do you believe that these jet professors, or those of our children, are following these criteria, Mr. Secretary? You're a professor, don't you feel bad? Come on, the man who said that isn't a professor, but how did you change your spirit and call it yes? Please question this. When you look at PISA research -- 65 countries represent 80 percent of the world's economy -- you are the Minister of National Education of a country with an average 45 percent in 65 countries. Instead of investigating the reasons for all this, you took the heads of the principals in the first and middle school, and you blamed them. So you have to question yourself. But I owe you a thank you, you've become a phenomenon in this country, Mr. Secretary. You've become, in a way, an example to students who can change their spirit, an example that is not good, so I want to thank you. In the future, I'll tell my child: "Look, my son, don't be like your Uncle Nabi."
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0147par0065	Don't be rude, don't be rude.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0148par0066	That's a shame.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0144par0067	I'll tell my son, my daughter, my granddaughter, not to be like you, Mr. Secretary. So... you may be uncomfortable, but what I'm saying is borderline critical. I don't want my kids to be like you, so that's how I'm gonna teach my kids.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0147par0069	I don't want my kids to be like you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0149par0070	Don't ask if you don't want to. They can be like you. They're your kids.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0150par0071	It's disrespectful not to know your place.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0151par0072	Therefore, I feel that everyone should take care of his honor, especially his own profession.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0152par0074	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0153par0075	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0154par0076	Why are you being so personal?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0155par0077	An academic knows how to be respectful. Leave that professor titri somewhere else.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0156par0078	I don't even answer to you, and I never answer you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0155par0079	Get out of here. Learn to be respectful.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0157par0080	Guys, why do you have to deal with people when they don't have to?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0158par0081	He's right.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0159par0082	You're ignoring the contacts?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0160par0083	Mr. President, would you excuse me for a moment?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0161par0084	Mr. Secretary, please take the stand for bullying. I promise you two minutes, Minister. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0162par0090	Congressmans, since we've been discussing this bill, we've had some very helpful criticisms, suggestions. First of all, I want to thank you very much for them.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0163par0091	Look at us, Mr. Secretary, why are you only looking that way?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0164par0092	He can take care of you wherever he wants.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0165par0093	Is Mr. Tanal going to ask you where to look?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0163par0094	Yeah, he's gonna look at us, he's gonna look at you?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0164par0095	To look at you or where you look!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0166par0096	In contrast, I'm afraid it's a very rude statement to mention my name, which doesn't suit the Parliament, which doesn't suit the MP. I sat there the whole time, deciding not to answer any of this. I'm making this decision again, and I'm giving it all back, including this one, and I'm returning it to the right place. I thank you, too.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0167par0099	We're very proud of you. Everyone does what suits them.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0168par0100	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0169par0101	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0168par0102	Mr. Secretary must have picked on me by saying I used dirty words. I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0169par0104	Congressmans, please. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0168par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've never been rude to you. I criticized you and told you I didn't want my children to be like you. What's the big deal?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0170par0111	It can't be.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0168par0112	What's the matter with you? I'm a professor, and I'm criticizing you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0171par0113	Teacher, let the children do as they please...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0168par0114	Your attitude at 4+4 has caused scars that will never, ever, ever be a solution to our national education.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0172par0115	That's your opinion!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0168par0116	It's my opinion. I say my opinion from here in order to behave. I haven't said a word out of my mouth, and it won't come out, so I'm returning those bad words to you. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] So, for the damage you've done to Turkish national education, I will criticize you every time I stand on the stand, and I have the right.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0173par0119	Don't add those clean kids to it, Hodja!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0168par0120	So you have no right to accuse me of being rude. I don't know what you're talking about. I never accept or deny such a thing. Turn around, even in the AKP government, five ministers have changed, which one of them has done as much damage as you have?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0174par0122	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0168par0123	They've introduced you as Babacan, you've deceived all of us, you've deceived us all with that view, with that attitude, with that social democrat look...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0175par0124	He's a conservative Democrat, you're the social democrat.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0168par0125	And you played the number one role in eliminating secular education, and they used you as a Trojan horse, and you let them. Was that worth a seat, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0176par0127	We've done so well, we'll do so much more!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0177par0128	Thank you. There will be a question-and-answer procedure on the matter. Mr. Canalioğlu, please.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0178par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Seçil Esmanur Erdem, a gym teacher from Tripolioğlu Middle School, was taken into custody on November 23, 2013 on charges of egging Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's convoy as he passed through Cumhuriyet Street, and charges of public humiliation were filed against him on charge of his duty. The teacher has said over and over that he did not commit the alleged crime. An administrative investigation has also been launched by Tripoli Governorate, and the teacher mentioned has been suspended and has been reinstated shortly thereafter. As a result of the trial, he was sentenced to a fine of £7.080, and the court suspended his sentence. In response to the alleged crime, the National Ministry of Education, as your Ministry of Education, has been discharged by the Supreme Disciplinary Board of your Ministry. Do you think this punishment by the High Disciplinary Board has offended your conscience and the public's conscience?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0179par0138	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0180par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the SEC has applied to build a university at Ibn Haldun University, which has been asked to be established today by TÜRGAV at the National Education Commission. But before applying to the Turkish Court, I mean, before his application, do any of them apply to start a university? Who are they, who are they or who are they? They have not been granted permission until now, and why was TRUGEV given permission? Of the founders of the Turkish Development Party of Justice and Development, and the Prime Minister of the period, is there or is there no impact today on having a family of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0179par0142	Thank you. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0181par0144	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I congratulate you and all your staff on the education system that you've provided for the generation of the future that thinks and thinks and lives the way it thinks. I would also like to congratulate you on your support for the years of academic staff, the years they've worked, the years they've spent, and the work of the law today. And my children look up to you. God bless you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0179par0147	Thank you. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0182par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I just didn't finish. Time's up. Do you think the punishment given to this teacher -- as a Minister of National Education -- should be this way, or do you find it right for him to be dismissed as a guardian of the teachers' patrons and teachers, to keep our teacher out of his life, out of his profession? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0183par0152	Thank you. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0184par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you've changed the appointment and replacement regulations of teachers and school administrators, and you've put them on assignment. Finally, are you aware of the questions asked in interviews with the suspended school principals? In the national education system, so many teachers have never been asked humiliating, insulting questions. In those interviews, the head of the school, which was awarded by the person, the director of national education, received 0.76 points. He gets an award from the Ministry, but only because he's not a member of EDUCATION-BIRD-SEN, our teacher friend gets 0.76 points. How do you digest it? Don't you think that all these years at the Ministry of National Education, you've insulted the honors of our career directors? And we have 200,000 college pardons. This law has passed the Commission, it's waiting to get here. What are you waiting for to take these off?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0185par0157	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz, last question...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0186par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the new changes in the National Education Act changed the rating system for the appointment of school principals, and as a result of that rating system, there were scores given by the school family union and other departments at the school, as well as by the national educational directorates, but the scores were very serious. EDUCATION- ONE-SEN member managers are specifically told everywhere they're given extra points. Isn't that supposed to be subject to objective criteria? In addition, despite the full scores given by those present at school, will they not be given very low scores, causing huge injustices by national education directors? There's a very serious AKP staffing in schools. When you passed this law, you stated that you were particularly opposed to congregational organization, but unfortunately, we were amazed to see that the people of the House of the Range cult, which is my town, were made principals.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0187par0162	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0188par0163	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are currently absent from the foundation requests which have completed their papers and applied outside of Ibn Haldun University. So, if there's a request to start a foundation college in the YÖK, it's due to lack of paperwork.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0189par0165	What are their names?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0188par0166	If his papers are complete, he'll be sent to the Ministry of National Education, and we'll process him. There's nothing to be expected right now. As far as I know, Antalya was expecting a foundation college due to lack of paperwork. Now, according to our friend, the representative from the CEC, his paper was completed and sent to Parliament.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0189par0167	One? Even if there's a paper trail missing...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0188par0168	No one's waiting for the paperwork when it's complete.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0189par0169	How many are missing?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0188par0170	I don't know about that right now.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0189par0171	When will the answer be given? I'm sorry, and I'm sorry, but this is mutual.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0188par0172	Now, let's let our friends get some information, and we'll give it to you. Of course, I'm sorry to hear about our teacher who was expelled from teaching with this Supreme Disciplinary Board decision, but there are certain aspects of the law that a teacher shouldn't do, and if he does, there are rules that teachers must follow in every profession, as well as in teaching profession. Thus, those who violate these rules are also subjected to various measures according to the nature of crime or crime. And that's what we've been saving on our teacher's alleged crime. I'm sorry? Of course, I'm sorry, I mean, I'm sorry that a teacher is accused of such a crime, and I'm sorry that she's being punished for her guilt. I wish I didn't, but I'm guessing you're not asking the question in the sense that you don't apply the law, the regulations. In response to Dilek Hanım's question about the appointment of managers: We have explained yesterday how the system is edited, nearly 100 degrees criteria were developed so that these appointments can be carried out as objectively as possible.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0190par0175	You know that, Mr. Secretary, for God's sake! You know it's not like that.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0188par0176	Let me finish.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0191par0177	You know everything!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0192par0178	Minister, please, answer the questions.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0193par0179	What are you telling me, fairy tales!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0192par0180	Mr. Oz, please...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0194par0181	I also said in my statement yesterday that we've developed about 100 degrees of criteria, that we've identified actors to apply these criteria, but in some places there are dramatic differences between executives and the school family union, teachers or student representatives, or -- let's not say -- the ratings -- that we're looking at -- and there are examples like this -- that we're looking at these as well.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0195par0182	They've filed a lawsuit, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0194par0183	Of course, it's a lawsuit, it's going to be opened, it's going to have to be opened, if there's any inappropriate questions on the commissions... they didn't work as commissions, they didn't. So the district manager, the branch manager, the head of the PTA, the student representative, the senior teacher, and the most senior teacher, they're separate from each other through the e-school system, so they gather in a commission, not by consultation, but separately... we did this specifically so they wouldn't affect each other. However, we know that there are such practices. Of course, the legal ways are clear. I got all our county managers on a teleconference 15 or 20 days ago, so I warned them again over the teleconference. In their assessments, I warned them that they should not go to any political or union favourancy, except for the criteria intended to measure or measure the educational quality that had already been sent to them in advance, and I reminded them that we have encountered such examples and that we have been investigating them, if necessary, they will be subject to trial 15 to 20 days ago. Now, there are a few other issues that I can't answer in the previous question-answer chapter, which I can't quickly...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0196par0185	Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0194par0186	Okay, fine. I'll explain if there's another time.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0196par0187	Well, thank you. There are two motions on matter of the same nature, and I'm having them read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 3rd Amendment to the Higher Education Staff Act of 651, which is currently in session. In accordance with Article 2914, we propose and propose the exchange of the temporary clause, which is envisioned to be added to the Higher Education Staff Act, in the following way. Aydın Agha Ayyaydın Fatma Nur Serker Aytüğ Atı Kamer Young Oğuz Oyan Ali Haydar Proposes The regulation specified in Article 10-Addition 4 will be adopted within four months. According to the first joke of Article 4, it is the first time that an academic incentive score has been calculated for 2015, based on activities conducted in 2014. The signatures of the other motion are: Scholar Light S. Nevzat Korkmaz Yusef Halaçoğlu Reşat Right D. Ali Torlak Ahmet Duran Bulut Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0197par0206	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0196par0207	Ali Haydar Öner, MP of Isparta who wants to speak on the same motions.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0198par0208	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs continue our talks on Bill 651. We're looking to provide additional opportunities for the distinguished academics of silent universities in exchange for their efforts. There are some differences in the consensus of this, but the general consensus is clear. Indeed, the academics were soon falling behind from the students they had raised. They also lost their reputation as well as their salary, their reputation, because citizens thought that academics had higher salaries, and when they found out, they couldn't hide their surprise. Our universities are silent, not just our universities, but our very important institutions are silent. In many cases, the religion is silent, neutral and independent, the businessmen are silent, the artists are insulted. At least in a country like this, there will be a slight increase in the salary of artists' academics. Academic incentive awards, research, scientific studies, technological advances, contributions to art -- I think we've come to a time when there's talk of contribution to art -- project, publication, design, exhibition -- where some artifacts are insulted -- will be subject to ratings and awards, such as patents. After that, we'll pay professors 100 percent, 90 percent to the professors, 80 percent to the other officers, and 70 percent to the professors. The only positive thing is that there are a lot of people in the commission that are experts, converters, educational-education planners are included, but not included. First of all, the pensioners are miserable. When we consider the minimum standard of living, when the poverty limit is at $3,900, how can pensioners account for how much they live on, especially college expenses, student college expenses? Unsubstantiated teachers, unfair quota practices, police additional indicator problems, demands of prison personnel as a message to MP phones. There's no difference in inflation to the officer. Electricity and natural gas in the energy field saw a 9% increase. Sir, the lion has made a living. On the other hand, the state-run AKP gets what it gives with one hand. In 2005, the development grant, yes, is removed at 15/12/2014. As of December 15th, the grants imposed on the region to 500 coefficients will be removed, some of the additional payments will be withdrawn. There's no telling why it's being removed. In Sincik, Adıyaman, and Eleşkirt of Adıyaman, did the circumstances change? Why are those who work there being deprived? It must be re-pointed, reassessed, and this grant period must be extended. Also, in the cross-country comparison... A lecturer at an American university has a new salary... He's overpaying the professors 2.47 percent, and his investigators seem to be overpaid by 2.69 for $1,680. May it be lawful for our academics, and peace be upon those who do not get what they deserve. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0199par0218	Thank you. Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP who asked for the same proposal. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0200par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. There's a law here that the university has a really important need for, of course, but it's really little, but at least this much, it's something that's going to make their situation a little better for now. But let me tell you, our friends at the university will know very well, researchers, young people who prepare doctors, they certainly can give them a quality that can provide for them to grow up well, but it's not the kind of amount that allows them to do their research very well. So when they go to another city, when they go to the library studies and so on, there's a great deal of good that there's an additional amount of money to be put into the universities' research funds, with a little bit more to be put into them. A young person from Ankara to İstanbul will stay there. Besides, he'll go to the archives, go to the library, photocopy, live there. I mean, it's not possible for him to do that with $3,000, not even when he's working for a month. So we have to consider these things, but even so, as I said, it's going to create a certain amount of relief. At the next stage, we're going to have to lean a little bit deeper into this. Because my friends, look, if I'm not mistaken, our number of colleges has gone up to 180. Ten years ago, fifteen years ago, our universities were much fewer; it was 40, it was 30, it was 50. But when you looked at the ranking of world universities, we had several universities in the top 100 of the Turkish universities. In 2013, I believe there was only one ODTU in the 61st place. In the 200th place, other universities arrive. Now, it's down to five. In 2014, I think six universities were able to get into the first 500, not in the first 100. Now, do you know what that means? Voltaire says: "The most common way to create a bigot is to make you believe without teaching you. " If you don't raise your people well, you can't save your people from bigotry. Strangely enough... Look, just think about it, it's been 90 years since the Republic was formed. Is there so much played in any ministry in Turkey? I mean, even different ministers from the same administration at the Ministry of National Education must have had to make some changes. Some have been dealt with with shapes or shapes instead of passing credits, some have been taught, some have been taught, some have been given serious measures to improve quality in education, and the government has made a decision today, but I don't think it's fully implemented. So now it's time to get rid of 80-person classes in normal straight high schools. It needs to be directed to more vocational schools, or, rather, all of them, into vocational schools, and many of our places need to be established again. If we don't do this, we can't raise our young people well. That's when bigotry comes out. To prevent these means that Turkey will rise, Turkey will become more democratic, Turkey will adapt to human rights much more. If you have well - trained people, you will enforce the laws you have made, and because they are, you will show serious acceleration, and those laws will be enforced. If you have the best law in the world and you don't have the best trained people, you can't apply it, or you can't direct society that way. So here, I -- and I'll tell you this -- I've had an academic life of 38 years. Twenty-two years as a professor. Now, fellas, all this time, I've seen this. I was President of the Historical Society for 15 years. I had to study the archives abroad to do research in my own profession, but how was I supposed to do that? There's no way I'm going there on my salary. So don't let scientists drag them through his door, giving them scholarships or giving them government support, just like in TBITAK. You have to do this in order to wait for him to do some serious research. The kind of performances that we're going to evaluate in 2016... if you don't support people, if you don't create infrastructure, how will they perform? We have to consider all of this, and I think we'll be more useful when we consider it in this frame. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0201par0228	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new interim clause violation. I'll have the motion read and ask the commission. If the commission joins the motion, mostly with 21 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. We propose that the following clause be added to the current proposal of the 651 Rows Numbered Law. The following temporary clause has been added to Article 4: 2914. Article 11: This law is the first law until changes to wages have been made in the Law on Higher Education Staff. Compensation for higher education staff shall also be compared to calculating their pensions. Haydar Akar Gürkut Acar Kamer Young Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Mehmet Haberal Engin Özkoc Mr. Commission, are you going to participate in the motion for the most part? I would like to invite our members of the Commission to the bench, Mr. President. We don't have a majority, we can't accept it. Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. A) On the 15th of the month following the release of article 1st, B) Article 2 of 1/1/2015, C) In the date of its release of other provisions, It'll take effect. Engin Özkoc, MP of Sakarya who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0202par0258	Mr. President, we're going through an important process of training. During this process, two brothers and sisters who went through the same process two years in a row failed to study within the same system. At the time of the five ministers' change, no minister, who was part of the same party programme, was able to continue what the previous one had done. It's like a boxing ring, and the salvos started flying, 13 fundamental laws have changed in 12 years. Now, looking at the state of a child during the AKP's rule of twelve years, Ayşe -- who was 6 years old in 2003 -- is now 17 to 18 years old -- entered the 1st grade of primary school, while piloting practices in 2004 faced a radical change in primary school curriculum. Ayşe met voices, not sentences, and was told that children would be rescued from memory and would be led to critical thinking. The receipts are history, and the first sentence in the alphabet is no longer the A.L.E. In 2005, three years of high school education was changed, and it went up to four years. The same year, instead of the High School entrance exam, the OKS came out. After three years of secondary school, students again took a single test, but the test content, curriculum, and coefficients were differentiated. The first OKS was made in 2006. So there was a long time to prepare for the Anatolian high schools in front of Aicha, and her family, or so they thought. However, a year later, when Ayşe was in the 4th grade in 2007, instead of the OKS, the three-step Level Determination Exam came out. Now there would be a test in the 6th and 7th and 8th classes, and the results would be determined according to the year-end success note. The last OKS was made that year. That year, she took the SBS exams with the clueless children who studied in the 6th and 7th grade. Ayşe entered the SBS (SBS) in the 6th grade, but when she entered the 7th grade, the new Minister Nimet Chobuçik said that this time the children wanted to reduce their dependence on the classroom for three years, saying that they had to take a single test again. So Ayþe left the system, which was part of the end, and in the 8th grade, he began preparing for a test in a different context and in one order. In the same year, the decision was issued for all straight high schools to become the Anatolian high school. She was now completely confused. Although he was lucky again, he had completed eight years of mandatory education and started high school, which was passed on to the 4+4+4 system, and returned to the old middle school system. I got rid of a mess, and in the new system, kids going to day care, his brother, started school at the age of five. Without a debate with the public, even in parliament, this system, brought into 2012 without a word, quickly increased imam-hating secondary schools and upper secondary schools. Even if Ayşe didn't go to imam-hatri, she received a share of the rapid change in education and began eight hours of religious education along with mandatory 3 religious lessons. The TEOG system was activated in 2013, when Ayse entered the 10th grade. Despite the empty classes, Ayse seemed to have broken free from this system that allowed us to understand the rapid increase in imam-gap high schools. The transition from basic education to secondary education has also failed the AKP government and the Ministry of National Education -- my friend just told me -- with distances from 30km to 1,000km. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The same Ayşe is now in the 11th grade and preparing for university, preparing for the exams and classrooms for today until September 1, 2015. And then? Then the classrooms will be closed. We don't know what's going to happen to Ayþe in the last year. We don't know that national education knows. It's not what Mr. Nabi Avcı. It's what Mr. Nabi Avcı told us, NGOs, academics. We're following him from the press. There's going to be a system like the TEOG system between the lines of an interview. As of today, at least if you look at the university system in front of Ayþe, it's a soup. In 2009, the test was two stages. The RCC coefficient is narrowed down. Then in 2011, they removed the application altogether. The SEC launched an unfinished breakthrough in 2006, raising its number of universities from 77 to 188. Sophia now has points or many universities to study according to her family's money. He's going to graduate from the country's resources, teaching policy, employment, an independent university. However, it is not known if he will be able to do the work he has been trained in during this underprivileged process, just like the unassigned teachers. Even for an ordinary cashier, a university graduate is now wanted. Gentlemen, what is our purpose? Education becomes conservative, commercializing, unqualified. To whom, what do we serve? In 44 countries, Turkey is the second last on its final on the problem-solving and creativity (PISA) test by OECD (OECD). I guess we intend to be the last one. Gentlemen, we have another proposal for the National Education Commission today. We were forced to abandon the National Education Commission, along with our Group Chairman Levent Gök Turk. Why? Ibn Haldun University, and there's another university coming after all these colleges. This university is founded by the TERGAV Foundation. We looked together with our friends as to who was in charge of the TÜRGAV Foundation: Bilal Erdoğan, son of the President; Esmeralda, daughter of Erdoğan; Serhat Colorrak, son of Erdogan; Serhan Uzuzer, father-in-law of Bilal Erdoğan; Ziya Ilgen, brother-in-law of Erdoğan; Shule Colonelrak, Esra Farrak, son-in-law of the President; Mehmet Ergun, the daughter of Ergun, Ergun, Mustafa Atash and Doğan Kubat; AKP İstanbul MPs; Hasan Can, AKP Ümraniye Mayor; Mev; Mevlütlu, President of the AKP Mayor of the AKP; Mehmet Ergun, the daughter of Ergun, the father-in-in-law of Erdogan. Friends, there is everything on the list of the suspects on the list of them until the money from 99.9 million Arabia and the help they received from Agaoğlu reach them. We have done our duty today to address the nation, not to be involved in this pollution, and to stop the destruction of your national education. People will do their job sooner or later, they'll send you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0203par0268	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0204par0269	Mr. President, the speaker has taunted me with a bet that I've served in a shady foundation by mentioning my name and mentioning some of my fellow lawmakers, and I want to speak according to Article 69.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0203par0270	Here you go, Mr. Kubat. Two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0204par0275	Thank you. Mr. President, so many times has been said, yes, there is a foundation called TÜRGEV, this foundation has a website, its activities are transparent. Under the supervision of all ministries, four ministries, and their reports are in the relevant institutions. This foundation has founded a university, and I am one of the trustees of this foundation. The Constitution states which foundations a member of parliament cannot serve in. We are within the scope of this constitutional decree, and I am proud of it. Because this foundation is a foundation of good intentions.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0205par0277	Source?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0204par0278	The source is here, here...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0206par0279	That's no way to train with illegal money. Don't mix up the haram and the hela.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0204par0280	Don't beat around the bush, just listen, learn to listen.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0206par0281	You can't do it with money.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0204par0282	You have your own foundations, and you have your own.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0206par0283	You can't train with illegal money.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0204par0284	A source doesn't have to ask you and donate to a foundation. Oh, you can discuss that.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0206par0285	Don't ask us, ask the other congressmen. Harm money is not a legitimate business.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0204par0286	Brother, look, if you don't know, find out.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0207par0287	Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0204par0288	There's a law, the Hunger Foundation Law, see what kind of revenues a foundation can receive, where it can receive donations.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0208par0289	You shall not distinguish between lawful and unlawful, but you shall distinguish between lawful and unlawful.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0204par0290	That's different, that's your understanding. To me, the activity of many people is immoral. We call wrong wrong. And if this foundation is involved in a false activity, we'll alert the authorities there.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0208par0291	Who are the donors? Contractors are making the tenders. Bring them out!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0204par0292	If they're responsible for these things, they're responsible for them... but there's another purpose for you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0208par0293	It's the contractors who take the contract, Precious Doğan.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0204par0294	There are now 40 trustees on that foundation, scribbled down some names. You've got lawmakers, he's been in some foundation. Maybe...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0208par0295	Can you tell me about a company that donates and doesn't get a bid?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0209par0296	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0204par0297	This foundation, this kind of... it's slander.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0210par0298	Explain how much he has to do with the government.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0204par0299	This foundation has never entered into any tenders and received a donation from anyone. But if someone brings a donation here, we don't have anyone's criminal record... sir, don't count on me now, there are a lot of foundations here, they don't want a record from them, they don't want a grant to the foundation. It's only about political parties. Those who know that know it well, there's no need to make a fuss. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0211par0302	Yes, thank you, Mr. Kubat. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0212par0304	Mr. President, by lying to me, he teased me. That's why I want the word.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0211par0305	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoç. I'll give you two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0212par0308	That's what politics is like. In politics, you come out, you place your claim, you prove your case. Dear friends, the $99.9m grant from Arabia is being made into Bilal Erdoğan's personal bank account, prove it.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0213par0310	You're wrong. You're lying.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0212par0311	Look, on Vatan Street, the truck garage is traded to Medical Park Hospital. To build a hotel in Şehdazebaşe. In Oliveburn, half of the land belongs to the treasure, half to the Foundation General. The sale of the national real estate land to TURGAVET is in Bursa.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0214par0312	What's wrong with them?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0212par0313	The land belonging to the Ministry of Energy in Kütahya has been assigned to TÜRGEV (TÜRGEV).
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0214par0314	That's good, that's good. There'll be more.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0212par0315	Agaoğlu's donation to TÜRGEV, Reza Sarraf. What is it? Say Reza Sarrafa!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0214par0316	What's wrong with you? I don't mind at all.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0212par0317	The transfer of the land belonging to the TMSF (TürGEV) in Ataşehir, İstanbul.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0214par0318	We'll assign more.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0212par0319	The allocation of land belonging to the State Railways in Uzalan-Altunizade.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0214par0320	We'll allocate more.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0212par0321	To bribe the sale of the land belonging to TÜRGEV (Türgevi) on the slap. The sale of the Historia Mall to TÜRGEV. There is a donor from the EPDK (EPDK) to the land in Fatih City.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0214par0322	Exactly.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0212par0323	Guys, I...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0214par0324	We'll do more.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0212par0325	Do more.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0214par0326	Exactly.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0212par0327	Keep eating more harams, and we'll keep asking for answers here.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0214par0329	Do you have a haram meter? You're a disgrace!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0215par0330	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0216par0331	Mr. President, my words have been answered, and I'd like word on that, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0215par0332	Sir?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0216par0333	According to Article 69... Mr. Speaker, he's got my words crossed. He made us look like an illegitimate, criminal foundation.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0217par0335	There's no teasing.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0215par0336	But do you want the word or does Mr. Aydın want it?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0216par0337	I want it first, and then my Group President wants it because of the group.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0215par0338	Here, I promise you for two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0216par0341	Now, dear friends, I've just told you, the website of this foundation is the turgev. organ. When you enter, you enter very transparently.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0218par0342	If it wasn't for the Prime Minister's son's foundation, no one would have said anything.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0216par0343	Oh, some of the donations that were made here, to tell you the truth, I wish they hadn't, and if I did, I'd stop it, this person, A, B...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0219par0345	We said thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0216par0346	But, look, just a second... With one false move, 2,000 girls are here, and many of them are free, food, housing, and they get a very high quality service. These children are all our children.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0220par0348	Make a dorm, a dorm.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0221par0349	Do you tell those children about these, these are the money they took?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0216par0350	The dorms are being built, all together...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0222par0351	Doesn't the government have the power to build a dorm?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0216par0352	Look, there's a valuable teacher in you, he's started a foundation university, Mr. Haberal Hodja, and he's done a great job, and he's served this country. TÜRGAV has established a university, and how to build this university is defined by the CEC General Assembly's criteria...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0223par0354	The public's money, it's obvious, has been distributed.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0224par0355	Aghaoglu will give, Bilal will build a dorm, and you will boast!
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0216par0356	...and if you don't do one of these things by a mile, this organization won't be allowed, my friends. This is well known to our fellow professors from the YKK.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0225par0357	Yeah, who donates millions of dollars to who?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0226par0358	Is there any other foundation that gets this much funding?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0216par0359	By meeting all of these conditions, we're applying for this university, knowing that we're going to be dealing with these questions, and I'm going to ask all of my friends who want to do this to the authorities at that foundation. And if there's a flaw, we'll reject it here at the General Assembly, at least take it to court. So transparent, so clear and clear.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0227par0360	Answer me one at a time, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0216par0361	Guys, look, there may be some mistakes...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0228par0362	Mr. Doğan, millions of dollars are being donated.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0216par0363	...but just because there's been some mistake...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0229par0364	There's nothing wrong.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0230par0365	There are, there are words, there are mistakes.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0216par0366	...don't try to undermine the good work done for this country, it's not the right understanding.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0230par0367	We're after the public's money.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0231par0368	There's nothing wrong.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0216par0369	Let's not sacrifice our personal ambitions to the people who work for this country.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0232par0370	We write down dirty work.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0216par0371	Thousands of volunteers serve day and night in this foundation, so let us consider these. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0233par0373	We're going to do more over TRUGEV, and there's no mistake.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0216par0374	And personally, I'm here, with all his papers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll give you that information with sincerity.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0233par0378	We're going to do more over TOURGEV, whether you crack or explode, there's no mistake.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0234par0379	Thank you. The question-answer process will be done. Mr. Canalioğlu, please.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0235par0385	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, colleges are being established, our children are going to these universities, and parents are in difficult economic conditions, so to speak, selling their jackets and making their children study. Our kids study, they finish college, they become teachers, and they have a variety of professions, but they come to us and ask for a job. In fact, the children who ask for a job, the mothers, the fathers, are upset. Now, I'd like to ask, should the mothers who should be sad be fathers or should this be the government that doesn't appoint our teachers? Are you going to make the appointment according to majors regarding our teachers at the February appointment, and how many of them are there? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0236par0389	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0237par0390	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, when money comes to foundations from abroad, it's the reason for closing as far as we know from the Foundations' Law. How can you provide information about this? Or does it come in the name of the founders to screen it? We'd like to know what you know about this. My second question is: According to the records of the police officers who have been taken -- so they have police tests now -- is that this is close to this political power, this is close to this. There are reports in the press. Do you guys know about this? If so, what kind of transaction are you going to do? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0238par0394	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0239par0396	Mr. Secretary, my friend has just explained that a $99 million donation has been made to the foundation of the university you're trying to build. Do you know for what purpose and why this donation was made, by whom? Two: Again, Istanbul's most valuable properties are being pardoned by the developers. For what purpose do these contractors make these donations? If public property is like this, or a donation by contractors to bribe us like this, isn't it illegal for our children to be educated there and fed and fed? Are you turning away from the imposition? Is it right to let such a foundation set up a university?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0238par0398	Thank you. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0240par0400	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, during your Ministry, you closed the Anadolu teacher's schools. Anadolu teacher's upper secondary schools were a vocational high school that developed vocational education and education schools. Why did you shut down the Anadolu teachers' schools? If we're going to say that for those of you who finished education schools, a certain part of the smart kids who finished Anado teacher's high school didn't prefer teacher's schools. How many percent of the students who finished imam-gathering schools prefer seminarys, and how many percent of them go to other professions? I want information on this.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0238par0402	Thank you. Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0241par0404	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, some concepts, definitions are very important. Qualification means that a wealthy person donates real estate or real estate. I would also like to share with the Great National Assembly of Turkey today how many people who were counted five to ten years ago or now have these assets and what these assets are -- such as the so-called water lake -- which the Credit Homes have dedicated to when they were in the state themselves -- and so-called, without any economic presence yesterday -- that such things should be done under the guise of the foundation, contrary to the foundation of thought and abuse. It's abuse, it's forbidden, it's wrong. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0242par0407	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0243par0409	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in my earlier speech, I explained with examples how TEOG (TEOG) and Armenian students were placed in imam-hatred high schools. Do you think there's anything wrong with this application? If you think there's something wrong with this application, have these students been apologized to? If you think this practice is in place, what positions do you plan to employ Jewish and Armenian imams and oratories in the future? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0244par0412	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0245par0414	Let me start at the end. The issue of Jewish and Armenian students being placed in imam-hatip high schools... and now, for once, imam-hatred schools are not just imam-student schools, but normal high school curriculums are being applied here. The curriculum for these schools is a normal high school curriculum, plus, they're also being taught a number of religious classes -- but plus -- I mean, they're graduating from these schools -- so when we were objecting that these kids were being cut off by coefficients, and remember, these kids were getting regular high school education, so when they went to college, we said that they were wrong to get treated differently than other high school graduates. Now, in this last set of high schools, there was a lot of criticism of the fact that some Armenian-born or Jewish-born students were placed in imam-hypnom schools, which took a little bit of humor. It's partly because you don't know how the system works. So let me sum up the system: 1,300,000 students go from middle school to high school -- 1,292,000 to round -- 1,300,000 students finish middle school this year, and they go to high school. These go through the following phases: students make school preferences through the e-school system; there is a second option button if they can't enter one of these choices; there are also school types, one of the six schools -- if I don't get into one of those four schools that I prefer -- they apply to one of those four schools -- and according to this system, 1 million,150,000 students have been placed on one of their preferences; there's no problem here; 1 million,77,000 students have settled into one of their 15 choices. More than half of them, 550,000 of them, settled in one of their first three choices. In return...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0246par0417	So half of them settled in on their last choice.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0245par0418	Sir?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0246par0419	Half of them settled in on their last choice.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0245par0420	No, your first three choices.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0246par0421	Half to his first three choices, half to his fourth.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0245par0422	Five hundred and fifty thousand have settled into one of his first three choices.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0246par0423	If you look at it the other way, half of it's settled in on its last choice.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0245par0424	And we've also given these students the right to transfer according to their preferences. First, we gave them a borough selection, so they were placed in the district where they were located, and then we gave one of their preferences that if they didn't settle in their districts, they could be placed in one of the two districts they preferred next door, but 134 thousand students didn't go into the system and make any choice. When we explore why they don't choose, we find that most of them don't have the right to enter the system because most of them are already going to private school, because they don't want to go to any public high school. Some of it may have been miscoding, or maybe it was because he went to pick cotton, so he went to pick nuts, so he couldn't go into the system and make a choice. However, in our first simulation, we could have left students who might have thought of going to private school out of the system from the beginning, and we tried to do that in our first simulation. So when the child makes his first choice in the e-school system, I'm not going to go to a private school, so I don't prefer it. If he says, he could stay out of the system, but this year, we, you know, for the first time in high school, encourage private schools from public high school, we encourage 3.500 lira in high schools. And in order to get that incentive, he has to go through a public school by law. Therefore, whether temporarily or not we register these students at a public school, even if they have not applied, those who want to receive encouragement or not can only enter private school through the e-school system. So, these Armenian-based or Jewish-born students of ours, we have an app called multi-program high school, one of our six high school types is a multi-program high school. There's an Anatolian vocational high school in multi-program high school, there's an Anatolian high school, so if there aren't enough students in that area to open an Anatolian high school, if there aren't enough students to open an Anatolian vocational high school, if there aren't enough students to open an Anatolian Imam-haki school, we open them under a high school like an umbrella, under a multi-program high school. These kids, these samples you're giving, they've been automatically placed here by the system, even though they've never been in the system. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, the other day, Ms. Nur Serter said that 45,000 students were placed in imam-student schools against their will. Look, I'm giving you the National Ministry of Education data. The number of students placed in one of the imam-hat schools in multi-program high school, which he didn't prefer, although he didn't enter the system, although he didn't choose to, is 45. The 209, usually placed, misplaced, placed at this type of school that he didn't want, was placed in which he made a choice, was placed in the imam-hatite 45.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0247par0431	45, 45 grand?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0245par0432	45. So we don't look at children's religious things when we're already passing them out with this analogy, by random analogy, so who's Jewish, who's... As a matter of fact, all these kids got their records later. Our Jewish citizen had already finished Jewish middle school, so he didn't enter the system because he was going to Jewish high school. The daughter of a very famous journalist was polymic. I had his records examined, and he had never entered the system in Job County, he had never entered the system, and we had placed him in the province, and if he had entered the system, there were 13 schools in Job County that he could have entered with his score, and he could have settled in one of 13. Another example was given, that the child had studied in İstanbul and had studied in Tucson, or to Rize, and there was no such thing as this, but that the parents had miscoded it, or that the mother had a separate place of residence, or that the father had a separate residence, or that the father had come from Cyprus, and there were no municipality of residence, and there were false codings outside the province.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0248par0437	Minister, please collect your words.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0245par0438	Otherwise, all these random samples are being placed in the province, and by transplant, we've already solved them all recently, thank God.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0248par0439	Yes, thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are two motions on matter. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 651 rankings are the 4th Amendment to the Law on Higher Education Staff. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Aydın Agha Ayyaydın Fatma Nur Serker Aytüğ Atı Oğuz Oyan Kamer Young Ali Sarıbaş A) Article 2 of 1/1/2015, B) In the history of the release of other provisions, it takes effect. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 4 of Law Bill 651 be removed from the draft article. Secret by Darayya Leader Pervin Buldan İdris Baluken Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0249par0460	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0248par0461	I'm reading the reason: With this change, it should be known that the government is trying to legalise performance-based wage implementation under academic incentives. This effort will speed up the academic community's progress towards income-profit jobs, instead of solidarity between workers, and the declination of universities from colleges. That's why this motion was made. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 651 rankings are the 4th Amendment to the Law on Higher Education Staff. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Sarıbaş (Chanakkale) and his friends A) Article 2 of 1/1/2015, B) In the history of the release of other provisions, it takes effect. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0250par0475	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0248par0476	Ali Sarıbaş, Çanakkale MP, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Yellowhead.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0251par0479	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to point out that I support the rise of wages for scientists at the university to do science and research with their true values, and in that sense I would like to share with you a moment about a democratic, autonomous university in Turkey. When my nephew Mehmet in Germany came to visit me this summer, I said, "Read the university in Turkey." In this university, in Turkey, you will learn better Turkish, better education; in a democratic, autonomous university, you will get good education. And he started asking me questions, and you're telling me this, but if the Prime Minister is ordering his 7th plane for $300 million when he has a 6-plane in one country, and he's offering 222 armored cars to rule this country in the 2015 budget, is there a democratic law state in this country? And he said, "Can you talk about democratic university in a place like this?" I'm surprised. He said, "I don't have that in there, and with the reign, the people can account for democracy. In a transparent and democratic country, it is not possible to spend the property of such a people in a long time. Again, he said: "When the Prime Minister goes to a place at red light, there is no escort in front of a prime minister and there is no escort in front of an escort in the back and there is no escort in front of a prime minister, and there is a red light." And he also said: "There are dozens in Turkey, even before him, when he goes to visit a place a week ago, the young people there are arrested, and the police are detained here a day earlier, especially when the city is in need, including the tradesman. And in particular, is there a country where he has 350 special bodyguards and special-equipped police, in other words, protection? Such a democratic country, accountability... I shut up again. But I said Turkey is a democratic, secular law state. No, you can't convince me. He went on to say: "In a country like this, except the Prime Minister, as long as the presidents were elected in this country, they stayed there as long as they could, and they continued there when they were elected." Again he asked himself, "Does he build a thousand - room palace in this country with a budget of one quadrillion dollars and no account and no public account, with a non-transparent tender, with a thousand - room palace on a 50 - acre land? Before he was elected, he made his decision, prepared it, and especially in a place like Ankara, in a place in the Ataturk Forest Farm, even though there was a decision to stop him legally... how do you speak of a state of law? I couldn't answer because it was true. You can't convince me of a democratic country that lives for years just by changing its furniture because it's forbidden to repair the outside of the old buildings, when there are prime ministers in my country on a scheduled plane. I especially can't convince and bring me to a democratic autonomous university with the law of September 12th in this country. I will continue to study in Germany. I didn't mean to...
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0252par0483	You defended September 12th.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0251par0484	You still haven't changed the laws of September 12th.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0252par0485	You said no. I didn't say no. You went from street to street and said no. You said to the September 12th referendum.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0251par0486	Because you've changed what you want in this country, and you've been quiet where you call a forward democracy. September 12th came to your aid in the removal of the SEC.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0253par0487	You called the Constitutional Court the right to an individual application.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0251par0488	In this country, until yesterday, when we were in opposition, you said we would. But now you're using it because you've created a uniform and undemocratic college, and you continue to create these universities.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0253par0489	Let's switch.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0251par0490	For that reason, I agree with my nephew's words, hoping that the young people who come here will have a good education. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0254par0494	You go with your nephew.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0255par0495	Congressman, send your nephew to us, and we'll tell him.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit05spe0256par0496	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0256par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 10th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume the talks of Bill 651 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Haluk Eyidoğan, İstanbul MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the matter. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Eyeborn.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0257par0009	Mr. President, I was an academic who served for many years before I became an MP. Thus, the support of academics' rights, salaries in universities is important to bring them to a better place to live. That's the way the law is supported. But are salary increases enough to improve the rights of equity? It's not enough. Colleges are universal institutions. In a philosophical debate, universities are the environments that allow people to see and discuss events by taking the mental process ahead of the emotional process. Colleges, academic environments, research institutes must be free and autonomous in scientific, material and administrative areas. In science environments, universities, all sorts of ideas should be debated without any attachment to authority, taboos, or individuals. We don't want the 1980 coup to be polished and a bad copy of this place being replaced. As soon as possible, an age-appropriate higher education law must be passed. This is an important mission for the country's future of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. If adult scientists don't grow up in universities, I'm afraid colleges can live on the ground that politics has lost today. It's a very serious threat, and we'll all be responsible for that sinking ship. Ibn Sina said that science and art migrate from an unappreciated place. I hope one day our country determines the measurements of Western academic and scientist selection. I hope the scientists of the future will bring our country to a level that produces science and therefore generates technology, opens doors to the scientific community, opens doors to the information society. Since the beginning of the 2000s, the GDP has increased by 60 per cent, which is good, but our number of scientific publications has only increased from 22 per cent to 18 per cent. It is important that university professors, academics' rights, salaries increase, improving living conditions are important, but these should also be considered. We said this level was barely up to 18, and it even dropped to a lower level than in 2009. So budget growth and approaches like this are not the only solution. Notice, our patent numbers don't grow in universities and public institutions. I know of an invention that could buy a patent, which was just being discussed, which is the TEOG. It was invented by the Ministry of National Education. The fact that science can't flourish in our country is based on the lack of academic awareness, science philosophy, culture of science, scientific history. When we look at some developed and even developing countries, this situation makes it feel more serious. Colleges, academic environments aren't like high schools, they're not like middle schools. The people who work there are not at universities, academic environments, scientists, who change their minds by the direction of the wind or by the power of the wind or by the strong; who do not crush the weak and kneel before the strong, who complete their own healthy internal development, who view man as a man and respect him for being a man. As the scientist Bertrand Russell put it, all is well if I am there, and without me is evil. There is no self-centered, greedy, without rules for profit, and there is no way to achieve the goal. Stefan Zweig says that in science, blindness is cowardice, not delusion. A scientist has no right not to see the truth because of his work or respect for cowards or timid people. A scientist is a universal thinker, an objective person, a person with a moral responsibility, an enlightened person, a person with a high vision. A scientist is obliged to understand the truth. A scientist has to share his findings with the public. The scientist is responsible for all humanity and nature. The scientist is open to criticism. A scientist has the courage to tell the truth. Shame on them, too, if that's how we raise a Prime Minister's students in this country. We don't need teachers like that. We know you said that, we know you said that about the teachers in the Middle East. Another issue is autonomy. In our universities, autonomy is one of the issues that has been discussed for years. The basic condition and security of producing science is autonomy. Autonomous means independence from other powers of state and society in making decisions on the functioning of scientific, administrative and budgeting of higher education institutions and in creating their own policies in education, research, outside studies and other related activities. Let autonomous universities train their own students as they please. Don't categorize them, don't isolate them, don't categorize them. As stated in the Lima Declaration, published in 1965 by the World University Association on the autonomy of higher education institutions and academic freedom, academic freedom is to have the freedom of academic community members to learn, develop, and transfer information through research, study, discussion, documentation, creation, creation, teaching, teaching, teaching and writing. Colleges are based on historical autonomy. In societies where strong university principles still don't exist, universities will be stripped of their autonomy, very serious and perhaps irreparable. The most serious problem with our universities is that some academics who can't raise academics on an international scale, or some academics who have the potential to grow, go abroad and stay there, live there and contribute to those countries. Our country needs to prioritize the problem of universities in need of 8,000 doctorates a year. The infrastructure and working conditions of universities are problematic. The problem is growing day by day. We need to develop a sustainable mechanism for the protection and incentive of academics' rights and qualified scientists. This law aims to develop autonomy rights, to develop incentives, so it is understood. I hope they do it by seeing everyone as equal, free scientists. However, the development of such incentives, autonomy rights, should be sustainable. I don't think it's going to do much good with a mechanism that exists today that tomorrow doesn't exist. If we can't create both infrastructure and scientists living under better conditions, the subject of efficiency of universities will be a greater problem in the future. Again, we won't be able to increase our patent numbers like we have for years. Again, we're not going to be able to produce technology like we did over the years, we're not going to be able to produce basic science, we're not going to be able to transfer engineering science into technology, and unfortunately, then we're going to be in the developing class of countries. So no matter what we do, whether it's infrastructure or human resources, we have to put our universities, our institutions, our sectors, our public and private sectors together and create technology and become the information society of tomorrow. If we can't do that, we'll be in position, and we'll be dealing with a lot of unwanted problems. Thank you for listening, my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0258par0026	Thank you. Ali Longırmak, MP of Aydın, who has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0259par0030	Mr. President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're discussing a good law today, we're discussing the bill. I'd like to thank everyone for their contributions. We discuss many issues at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear friends, we need to discuss our issues properly. History is a rich treasure for statesmen, and we need to get stocks out of stories. We're having the foundation debates. I urge him to guide us by sharing a story with you. Ebî Vakkas, Hazreti Omar, Nushirevan and various heroes... one day Hazreti Omar will go to Iran to trade with Ebî Vakkas, and watch the young men playing the javelin steal 200 camels, without money, and they will go to an inn. When the Innkeeper sees that they are sad, he asks: "What happened? " They tell the story. The Khan says, "King Nushirev is a righteous man. Go and tell him your problem. They go and tell him, but Nushirevan gives two sacks of gold and sends them. When the Innkeeper came to ask what happened, it was like this. No, it's not like that. Nushirevan doesn't do that. He says. On the second day, the Khan goes and tells the story, King Nushirev apologizes and says: "Tomorrow, your lost relics will reach you, but I ask you to leave the city and one of you will exit the east gate and one of you will leave the east gate. The next day, Ebî Vakkas will meet the dead on the gallows, asking the people what is this?" They say, "This is the queen and son of Nushirevan. There is another one at the door where Omar Hazreti comes out." What happened, Omer? He asks, "Who is this?" They say, "The interpreter of Nusurirevan. " And they understand. The one who misinterpreted it was hanged, and the one who founded the gang, his son, and his queen, were hanged. Years go by. Ebi Vakkas is the governor of Damascus, and he nationalizes the land of a Jew on the grounds of building mosques, without consent. And this Jew is guided, and he goes to Medina. When he goes to Medina, he finds the Caliph of Islam, Omar, resting under a palm tree. We need to learn from these. He sees the tyrant in Damascus, he sees the garment of the courtmen, but he sees the state of the Caliph, and he wonders what it's like. He tells the story to Omar. Hazreti Omar wrote something on a piece of bone or skin: You know I'm no less fair than Nushirevan. And he gives it to the Jew to go into the hand of Ebi Vakkas. When Ebî Vakkas comes to Vakkas, there is a message from the Jew. He says and gives. And when Ebi Vakkas sees that message, he's yellow, he can't lift his head off the floor, he tells it. He says, that's how it happened. And after that, it's off-limits, but the other one's donated the land, converted to Islam, and the mosque is built again. Dear lawmakers, dedication is an institutionalization for a person with an asset to benefit from real estate or property revenues. Is the work done today under the name "vacs" really being made out of the assets of the foundation owners, the foundations, or are all of us being dedicated to the treasures of our entire nation, the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the house, the land of the house, the bread, the water by hand, by hand? There's something wrong here. Dear lawmakers, even the source of money entering the foundation is actually polluting the foundation. I'm asking you, can you abdex with dirty water? Is there a prayer, or is there a prayer, with water that is unclean? What part of our faith is that? Many abuses are being made today through foundations. Here, the donations are trying to serve something so-called foundational until some people who defraud the state, who are in international black money, who oppress the public, reach out to other people than their smugglers. Dear lawmakers, we must be people with a conscience... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And we need to know that when we're doing politics for the sake of values, none of us should be any less fair than Nushireván. These palaces are unnecessary today, my dear friends, if we believe that we rule with the life of the blessed Omar. We need to get this country's resources right. Yeah, a thousand rooms, not yet scheduled, but there's no telling where a thousand rooms will go. The marble bills come from Italy.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0260par0039	Yes, thank you, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0259par0040	But Turkey is a marble exporter. Even these things must be seen by this great Council, dear friends. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0260par0043	Thank you. There are two motions on matter, and I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the 5th amendment of the current Law Bill, number 651, be changed in the following manner. 5 - These laws are carried out by the Council of Ministers. The secret is Dareyya Leader Hasip Kaplan Pervin Buldan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 5th Amendment to the Higher Education Staff Act, which is currently in session, is in the 5th place of the Law. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Sarıbaş Oğuz Oyan Kamer Young Kadir Gökmen Öğük Haluk Ahmet Silver Haluk Eyidoğan The Minister of National Education shall carry out these laws. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0261par0062	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0260par0063	Haluk Ahmet Silver, Balıkesir MP. Here you go, Mr. Silver.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0262par0066	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm here today to address the employment problems of art history graduates, archaeological graduates, museums and restorers' professions. You may not know this, but one of the archaeologists started a hunger strike today, and it's because of unemployment. Of course, in the meantime, I'm going to consider the cost of disinterest in this professional group, which has been ignored in public. It has to be known that the older the history of mankind, the more ancient the geography we live on, the more ancient and ancient it is. Our country is a treasure of historical and cultural heritage. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism today includes around 13,000 archaeological and urban sites, nearly 100,000 cultural sites, more than 300,000 museums, some 3.5 million artifacts in the area of 135. Those who have not been discovered, and those who are underground, expect to be brought out of the land with more than its treasuries. This painting provides 30 million annual visitors to our country, but let's see if we're paying attention. Unfortunately, however, the importance of history, aesthetics, and cultural heritage in our country has been regressed more than ever before. A generation that has forgotten its cultural heritage, its history, is a society that has lost its memory. A society that has lost its memory is destroyed, can't create itself, can't reproduce, and can't add anything to humanity. A society that has lost its memory will eventually be taken away from its chances of living and existing under good circumstances. In order to preserve and make cultural heritage useful, developing, progressive states set aside budgets; they develop teachers, experts, and practitioners. In us, it's the opposite, it's the opposite. The Ministry of Culture has not opened enough staff for art historians, archaeologists, museums and restorers, and the government is unable to carry out the necessary plans and budget steps. Archeology is such an area that the more you invest in this area, the more you improve our country in every field. Historical relics have an effect that can make our country shine like a star - both advertising and wealth and international influence. The more valuable you are, the more valuable you are. It is important to express this pain at this opportunity that the site of the restoration area in Turkey is now more backward than it was 500 years ago in Europe. The Ministry of National Education has very little interest in cultural activities and art history classes. Advanced countries have taken special interest in art history lessons, even in foreign schools, while art history lessons are mandatory in our schools, and art history has been chosen in your time. These lessons are often not made available to students. Very rarely, art teachers attend art history classes in schools that are opened as electives. Clearly, this is an odd practice in terms of the field of education. There's hardly an art history teacher in the teachers' appointments. Only two art history teachers were appointed at the latest national training appointment -- two for 75 million, and only two for 40,000 from the appointed person. Look, in Europe, they'd make it look like a disgrace, thanks to you, we've gotten used to it. This is persecution for the growing employee and an application that motivates the student's personal development. Millions of university graduates from many different majors are trying to broadcast their voices on social media and expressing their unemployment to you. So, who's behind these unplanned, aimless, aimless national educational policies? Of course it's your work, you can brag. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0263par0076	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the 5th amendment of the current Law Bill, number 651, be changed in the following manner. 5 - These laws are carried out by the Council of Ministers. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0264par0084	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0263par0085	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0265par0086	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0263par0087	I'm reading the reason: Reason: With this proposal, the material text is intended to be more understandable. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the draft of the Law on Change in the Higher Education Staff Act is an open vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 232 [[x]] Bayram Özçelik Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. Good luck with that. Minister of National Education, Mr. Nabi Avcı will give a thank-you speech. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0266par0107	Mr. President, Congresswoman, we've all passed a bill that would be very useful to our universities. Thank you so much for your contributions, your suggestions, your criticism. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0263par0110	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Members of parliament, we will begin negotiations with the 5th-place Turkish Republic Government and the State Commission Report on the Companies of Culture Centres between the Hungarian Government and the Agreement on the Act and Actions. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 613 rows. On top of the whole bill, Haluk Ahmet Silver, Balıkesir MP who asked for the Republican People's Party Group to speak for him. Here you go, Mr. Silver.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0267par0118	Mr. President, members, this is an extraordinary time. Turkey's government passed through this Parliament a thesis that would pave the way for us to intervene in the ongoing civil war and chaos of our southern neighbours, and even lead to wars. It's a mess. On the one hand, there is an organization called ilsid, which has so far declared weapons, food and education support from Turkey. This organisation has rebelled against Iraq's administration and has occupied part of the Kurdish and Turkish settlements of northern Iraq's oil districts, and is now trying to take over Kobani. On the other hand, the regional administration of Northern Iraq, which is the leader of this administration, Barzani, is taking our guns from Turkey, is arming us, but Turkey doesn't want to be explained, he says. Among them is the Western world, NATO, which is trying to improve the spread of ISIS. The government has announced it will support NATO's intervention in ISIS, and has set its sights on changing the Syrian regime, trying to convince the people and the West. It's all over the country, all over the country, news of death and murder, looks like this. The Middle East is in chaos, a pool of blood, and even part of this confusion is related to our country's foreign policy. Let's look at the bigger picture, and there's a bigger picture. Recently, there was a process called the Arab Spring, which I wanted to call the Mediterranean Transformation. Of course, the confusions in Syria and the Arab Spring were not caused by 100 percent internal dynamics in these countries. Mubarak, Gaddafi, they didn't just go to themselves because of the growing demands of democracy in their country, but if anyone thinks so, they are unaware. Yes, there were some very well-intentioned elements in them that made this demand for democracy. Something happened in the world, even decades ago, some calculations were made, and then these accounts changed again, based on the facts of today. I wonder if anyone knows about these accounts. What happened? Let's first look at the future scenarios of developed countries. There have been developments in the world's transformation over the past ten years that will affect the next hundred years. In this process, the prospect of superpower has changed, and the expectations of the world's leading institutions and corporations have been completely different from ten years ago. Let's start with an example of the reports and findings of major international institutions and organisations. The National Intelligence Council, which is the analytic branch of the 17 intelligence organisations in the United States, has found this type of assessment in the December 2012 Global Trends Report: The report refers to the effects of the distribution of power available in the world between countries and countries through 2030 to informal networks. So, these networks are going to form, develop, sign global events, and that's going to have its effects. These effects will greatly reverse the historic rise of the West since 1750. Asia's weight in the global economy and world politics will rise. China will have the largest economy in the world to cross the United States, says the report. As important as this, Colombia, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, South America, Mexico, Turkey, and several developing countries will be on the rise by 2030. Such findings are similar in reports from France and OECD. This is what the U.S. intelligence agencies have been doing, and another issue I have made clear before in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey came up. According to the Chinese acquisition party, IMF President Lagarde announced the number of revenues a few weeks ago: "China crossed the U.S. and this rise will continue a few weeks ago. Dear friends, what does that mean? So it's a good thing that it's passed. Some might say, "I wish it hadn't. But these global developments will affect the geography of countries like us, so there will be some calculations. I wonder who's thinking about this? Thus, it can be said that the goals set ten years ago in the Middle East were changed, and that the new world was focused on new goals. Now all accounts have changed and had to change. The world is no longer under the hegemony of a single polarized global power, which has been admitted. If you do not analyze the problems and alternative solutions of developed countries, you will never understand what they want or what they are aiming for in the Middle East today. That's why even a paragraph of the book that the Prime Minister once wrote and was expected to implement was never able to find its place in practice because he wrote it according to old projects. That's why Arab Spring was put on the brake for Syria with 20 million populations, creating changes from the outside with an effective dynamic, creating the front stages of global preparation. You're still in the old accounts. The accounts have changed. It is now necessary to understand that the advanced West is going to change policy because of talks with the world's other rising powers. The government of Turkey is still unable to wake up from the deep dream, doing analysis and pursuing its former goals without looking at new facts or elements. Today, in the Middle East, there is a new battle for sharing in a different way. In the Middle East, new conditions are sought to establish new balances. The main issue for the developed today is to destroy groups of terror, the existence of Assad, the future of Kurds, the Sunni Arabs, the Turks, the Yezidi, not the Christians, but who will control the energy resources. The energy supply for China, which has passed the United States, is also vital in its rapidly growing and national income account today, and it improves its policies on the Middle East. Whoever controls the energy field will be able to exert power over countries that are running to become the elders of tomorrow and even influence the paces of economic growth. Great supporters of the Shii-Sunni dissolution in the Middle East have this plan in mind. If the Shiites attack the Sunnis, the Sunnis, the Shiites -- they are Muslims -- and if there is dissolution in this area, the dissolution will likely be a major part of the new share. That's what sectarian policies serve, and that's what the government does, not knowingly, with sectarian politics. China is boosting the exchange of energy with Iran, and Iran's political influence on Shia communities in the Middle East is strengthening its cooperation. Therefore, if northern Iraq is intended to be separated from Iraq, which is usually a higher Shia population, it is necessary to look for these reasons. Western forces will want to hold control of a geography that can be compared to the capacity of Saudi Arabia's oil reserves in northern Iraq, at least in control. Their main concern is the safety and control of oil reserves in the region, not the political future of ethnic groups, Kurds, Turks, Yezidi. What else can happen? In northern Iraq, independence can be declared as pronounced earlier. As a matter of fact, we hear these voices. As a result, the region can be transformed into unsafe areas with the intervention of the Iraqi administration or with the already existing ISIS threats. We need to think about any scenario that might come our way, and we need to think about the best solutions. What could happen? One, the integrity of Iraq is an important solution. We respect the territorial integrity of all our neighbors, but to me, this solution will not be preferred by the Westerners for a long term. The independence of northern Iraq will be declared and the safety of Turkey will be asked. Even so, the security of northern Iraq will not satisfy the parties. Northern Iraq will be able to give Turkey its own wish. If they want this, they want it. You say -- whether integration will happen or how it will happen -- it could be Turkey's biggest issue. In short, lawmakers, the Middle East will be in for years of chaos. We have to figure out how to get out of this mess in the easiest and best possible way. All future reports in the world say that Turkey is the great country of the future. And I will add that it is unemployed in the world with its potential. We say that this country belongs to everyone who lives in it. To reach our great future, which is said and accepted by all powers, we need all our citizens within ourselves, without setting boundaries, restrictions, differences. To achieve the great goal, all of this must not happen. We can only carry such a future to the highest peak together. The future can be strong, beautiful and great if we can all be together. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0268par0137	Thank you. Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP who has asked for the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0269par0140	Mr. President, thank you. Congressmans, I'll talk to you for five minutes, but you'll be interested, I'll talk to you about Hungary. Hungary is indeed a dear friend of ours. Let me put it this way: this is a state that's long overdue for the establishment of cultural units. And when we look at it historically, we have a close relationship that goes back a long way. Of course, you know the Hun State, where the tomb of Attila the Hun was found near the Danube, the emperor's tomb. After that, there was the State of Avar, which was founded in Hungary, which was founded in 562, and the Hungarians, with their recent research -- where there are very valuable historians, which are considered the center of Turkology -- such as Gyula Németh, who wrote Hungarian history, Haza David, and Pal Fodor -- they accepted that in their research, Hungary officially accepted that these were Turkish origins today, and in 2001 they recognized the State of Avar as their first founding state, and they celebrated the 1,000th year. They invited me when I was President of the Historical Society, and I went, and I attended those meetings, and I even gave a speech. And he's actually using a language that's completely in accordance with the Turkish grammar structure, and as there are a lot of Turkish words, they're still the names of Imre, Attila. Also, let me tell you that we have inventory of Turkish cultural assets in Hungary, and even though we have fought a lot, we are very close, and that agreement today will have a very close relationship with a state that is in the midst of Turkey's Hungary, or Europe. Therefore, I would like to point out that we support this contract as the National Movement Party Group and that it is positive. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-05sit06spe0270par0148	[[Applause]] Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE BUILDING OF THE CLUB CENTER, MADDE 1-1-1 (1) was approved on 15 November 2013 in İstanbul. The agreement on the Foundation of Culture Centres between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Hungarian Government has been approved. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, it is a clear vote on the Court of Culture between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Hungarian Government that Agreement on its establishment, its operations and its activities has been approved: ▪ The number of votes used: 205 [[x]] Bayram Özçelik Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya So the bill is accepted and legalized, and good luck to you. We are starting negotiations with the Istanbul Research Centre Law Bill and the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission and the Justice Commission Reports. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with the 7th ranking Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Act and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. On Thursday (November 6th 2014), the decision to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order is at 14 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
