tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 117th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in two minutes' time. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda is subakut sclerozan -- which is caused by measles -- I won't be able to say it, Hajji -- belongs to İstanbul MP Türkan Dağoğlu who wants to talk about the situation of the SSPE disease in Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Mountainoglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] By the way, Master, before you turn on the microphone... My fellow lawmakers, there really is a hum in the General Assembly. Our friend has come prepared, we need to listen. We'd better keep the peace. Here you go, Hajji.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0002par0019	Mr. President, I'm here to present to you the status of these cases of panencephalitis, which we call encephalitis caused by measles, which my president was having a hard time saying just now. This issue was previously addressed and brought up by the HDP MP on June 17th and July 9th. First of all, we need to know that measles disease -- before, we would only consider measles complications as pneumonia, but then, in late circuits, after having had the measles, after five or six years, sometimes even longer, we would see it in the brain, and it also brought up what we call a disease. And for the past few weeks, I've considered that being said from this stand as evidence of this incident. Now, in studies by the World Health Organization, the cause of this disease has not been seen to be linked to vaccines in any way, and in the study of microstructures that have been done, they have discovered that there is no vaccine virus in the brain, but the measles virus of the disease has been planted years later. Did the Ministry of Health watch it across the street from this picture in Turkey? Of course he didn't, and the Ministry of Health has put it on the agenda and increased their inoculation programs. This disease is directly proportional to the immunization of the truth, and it is certain that there will be a reduction in the proportion of this disease, as well as the World Health Organization states. However, on June 17th, when the motion was issued, our friends who served in Diyarbakir, an infectious disease expert, a professor, expressed here that the immunization of these areas was less than that of other regions, depending on the awareness of the community there, not on the Ministry of Health. I don't want to go in here, because that day was long coming to them, and your child might be able to be small, and therefore, we all know very well that the immunization programs at that time were interrupted by the people. In today's studies, the Ministry of Health conducted studies, especially after 2005, the vaccines were given a huge speed, and today the vaccine is being made to cover all regions in Turkey at 98 per cent. One of the best examples of this disease is China, given by the World Health Organization. This disease is not seen in China because measles vaccine has reached 100 percent. I believe that these diseases will no longer be seen as a result of this high inoculation in Turkey. So, what is the Department of Health doing here? The Ministry of Health himself gives them their medicines for free, and the inoculations are free of charge. It was also discussed at the time, my deputy said that the inoculations would already be done here, and the Ministry is already doing so, and there's no other way to think about it, and it's a very important thing to give them home service and home service. In the matter of finding a neurologist, Congressman, this is an upper secondary field, the number of neurologists is already very few in Turkey, but there are enough children's patients, and this issue will be prevented by inoculation in the future. I pay my respects to all of you and thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0003par0027	Thank you, Mr. Mountainoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0004par0028	Mr. President, the speaker said in his speech that this disease had nothing to do with the vaccine. He's right, it has to do with the absence of the vaccine, but he's shown as the local people why the vaccine wasn't given. It's a very wrong thing, and the reason you can't inoculate is because the Ministry of Health is disrupting health care, period. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0005par0030	Broken vaccine, broken vaccine!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0006par0031	The second non-responsive statement is from Mr. Idris Bauken, a member of the Bingol MP who asked for a comment on forest fires. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0005par0034	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. For the first time, we found it positive that a member of the AK PARTY group came here and spoke in a positive frame. I think the first thing we need to do in the year of the new legislature is to set up a research commission on this disease and find out the real reasons and help solve the family's problems. There's a lot to say about that, and I'm not going to mention it today because we express it from time to time, and because our time is limited. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today, I made a promise about forest fires. There is a fire in Akdağ district, in the district of Genç, which we have called "Ko Spi" for four days, and this fire has not been extinguished for four days. It's 13 on Sunday. As news of this fire began to come to us at 00, we immediately met with the Regional Forest Directorate authorities, and they gave us a very familiar reason: when they told us the reason why they couldn't put it out, we immediately felt that a head of security was on line again. Brigade Commander says he won't let them put out the forest for safety reasons. Therefore, they said they had never been able to intervene in this existing forest fire, but they were working on some measures to prevent it in a wide range of areas. Of course, when they said that, we thought, let's say you can't intervene because of land security, but there's probably a fire extinguisher or a fire extinguisher in a whole country like Turkey, and you probably called it in within a few hours. Naturally, when you thought dialectically, we expected a country with large F16 fighter fleets in the area to have a serious preparation for fire extinguishers, but we were horrified by the response we received. All over the region, across the region, there is not a single fire extinguisher or helicopter in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian region. It's a disgrace. They stated that they had made correspondence with Ankara and Adana, waiting for the results of these correspondence. Later that night, the villagers there called and told us that there was no interference. Twenty-four hours passed, Monday at 13. We called at 00, and there's still no fire extinguishers or helicopters. So we talked to the Ministry's officials, we spoke to the Undersecretary. He's got nothing to justify it. So why doesn't he have a fire extinguisher or a helicopter in the area? We didn't get the answer from Mr. Undersecretary either. A plane removed from Adana arrived in the area exactly 19 or 20 hours later, and, unfortunately, with a show-of-the-art attempt to put out a fire, it finished the work that day without any success. There's still information that the work is still going on, but the fire's going on as fast as it can. The director of the forest says they are at ease, arguing that the fire site is far from the settlements. So, when you look at a tree, you appoint a forest director who doesn't see a life, who doesn't see a life, who doesn't see a human being. So, his point of view... is that we're comfortable now because it's far away from the settlement. What kind of understanding is that, guys? For one thing, the staff in this mentality should have nothing to do with the Ministry of Forestry or the Forest Service Department. In four days, if you can't put out a fire in a restricted area, there will be a debate about the legitimacy of your government. We express that an effective fire suppression is to be done on this matter immediately, and this head of security must be removed from the area. Last year in the region, in Mardin, in Kato, in Cudi, while the forests were burning, the head of security that did not intervene now does not intervene in the fire in the mountains of Bingol. This head is the same head that burned our forests in the 90s. You're either going to face this head, you're going to remove this head from there, or we're going to say that that head is represented in you right now. In order for the fire to be extinguished in Akdağ, I say that the necessary measures must be put into effect immediately, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0007par0043	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Erkan Akçay, a member of the Manisa MP who wants to talk about attacks on our beliefs. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0008par0048	Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-book promise, especially in recent years, about the attacks on our beliefs and some of our values. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, during the Justice and Development Party, our most religious and spiritual values have been eroded and attacked. During the 12 years of AKP, values have been distorted, theft and corruption, bribery, and bribery have been declared a philanthropic businessman, and bribery has been called a fraud. The age of start-up of drugs has been reduced to 10, and the age of alcohol has been reduced to 11. In elementary schools, alcohol and drug use and possession are no longer a crime. The production and sale of pork has been released, and these farms have been provided with loans from the Agriculture Bank. The 1.574 Koran course has been shut down. Adultery has been released. They attacked our headscarf girl at Kabataşta. Erdoğan, who tried to collect votes, called and fired the headscarf journalist, insulted the headscarf girls working against the AKP and made them the target. While some AKP MP, deputy minister and executives still have blessed Erdogan, Minister of Interior Efkan Ala has said that Muhammad was proud during the conquest of Mecca and that he was warned by God and that they were not proud. While our religious feelings were being abused for voting, for a former Minister who made fun of the Qur'an, who was involved in bribery, corruption, all AKP executives, speakers remained silent. I ask you, what did we say about our beliefs, our religion, the Qur'an, and those who were silenced in the face of insults to our values? The construction law has been changed to a place of worship, where there is only one non-existent, where church houses have been opened, such as piracy for missionary activities. Again, Erdogan spoke highly of it in the European Parliament. The last thing that comes to mind in Turkey is the arson and cremation of mosques, dear friends, but unfortunately in Ramadan, mosques are torched and Korans burned. In 2011, Prime Minister Erdogan, who worshipped Christians at the mosque in Izmir Alaçatı, boasted of it, closed 27 mosques in Rhodes Island, where our relatives lived, and kept his mouth shut while part of them were being turned into a tavern and a place of entertainment. I can show you these pictures they won't miss. 13 Turkish schools were closed in West Thrace, while the Greek school of Gökceada had opened and the Greek church of Niğde was opened in Niğde. While the churches in Turkey were restored and opened, Greece's Ibrahim Pasha Mosque in Kavala was converted into a church. On December 31, 2012, Erdogan lied and voted, saying that he had drunk at the mosque's mosque, but on December 31, 2012, the same Erdogan, the U.S. troops entered the mosque at İncirlik Base in Adana with their shoes on and drank and smashed the Koran and remained silent when it was reported to the government. Of course, I'm not saying that, but your current Minister of Justice, Bekir Bozdağ, says that with his wet signature. This wet signature, Ergenekon, doesn't look like a wet signature on a sledgehammer case. Dear lawmakers, as the Turkish nation, as lawmakers, I urge you to resuscitate against these attacks on our faith world, to stop being silent and take care of those who are making these attacks. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0009par0058	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. I will make a promise to our 10 friends according to the 60th article. I read their names in order: Mr. Özkan, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Enç, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Atici, Mr. Türkmenoglu, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Eyidoğan. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0010par0064	Mr. President, thank you. I'll issue warnings and suggestions to the ruling authorities. As a result of the 2014 drought, extreme rains, floods, hailings, plant production was severely damaged. The price of hay, fig, clover, corn, bait, has gone up, and the production has been reduced. This distress in the bait, the most important entry in animalism, has left our producer in financial distress. As well as private banks, agricultural and agricultural loans have become unpayable. It has been written that these debts cannot be postponed. Request: The decision to postpone debts requires the benefit of those who use animal loans. He'd like to ask that my warnings and suggestions be taken into consideration, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0011par0069	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0012par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. For many years, the most important problem of Kadıköy is that Froglidere has been reformed by the ISI and the DSI over the years, but all the work and all the money spent have been wasted. There is now a reform work, but the work is far from the initial plan. The initial plan is wrong, and the ISCI has accepted it. Since the beginning of this plan, even if it had rained for Kadıköy for ten minutes since the construction began, it must and will surely flood. The Kadıköyans want this reform and this plan to be completed as soon as possible. In addition, one of the biggest problems of Kadıköy in four years is the urban transformation in Fikritepe. The uncertainty of this urban transformation remains. People here are nervous; this has become a Syrian housing centre; there are all kinds of problems with cannabis, heroin, and drugs. So, as soon as possible, I think this place should be controlled by the government, and I want the contractors to fulfill their commitments. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0013par0075	Mr. Nice...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0014par0077	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to address the Israeli parliamentary lady of the Parliament of the Republic of Turkey, which I've always been proud to serve: you show your black conscience, blood, hatred, and hatred over the land of Palestine that you have wrongfully invaded. You can never be a woman, a mother and a human being. Earth's history of humanity will remember your actions as a disgrace, a black mark. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0015par0081	Mr Enç...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0016par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Democratic, secular, social law state's most important mechanisms lead to democratic elections. On August 10th, we will elect our 12th President, and the national will will be reflected in the chest again. In this direction, you must go to the polls, to the polls, or they will interfere with your lives. I condemn the politicians who have created the empire of fear. (CHP rows) I say go to the chest not in fear, but in order to exercise a democratic right, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0017par0085	Mr. President, I condemn him because he's not speaking the truth.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0018par0086	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0019par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. I condemn the mindset in Maltepe, which plays with the faith of the people in our Great Neighborhood, who plays with the faith of the people, who, by the faith of the people, lead to religious politics. At the same time, İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality does not organise bus routes in the District of Maltepe. That's why I'm inviting the Home Secretary and the Minister of Environment and Urbanism on this. In our district of Skopjedar, before the election, good luck. The zoning problem and property problem of Yavuzturk neighborhood, which has been placed on the banner, has been unresolved. Because of the vote, they deceived the people of Skopjedar. I'd like to invite the Minister of Environment and Urbanism on this matter. Sultanbeyli district to headquarters, Mecidiyeköy to one hour... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...an hour and a half away.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0020par0094	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0019par0095	Your citizen's public toilets...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0020par0096	Mr. Pitcher, it's open... and Mr. Shotman's continues.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0019par0097	I'd like to request an open toilet in Sultanbeyli.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0020par0098	Fine, fine, fine. Mr. Horseman, here you go. Go ahead, you've lost ten seconds.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0021par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, for the past three years, I've been saying that the Ministry of Health in this House is bad and that health care is marketed, and that our people, our babies, will pay the price. I'm afraid what we're saying is slowly starting to come out. In 2012, the baby's death rate of 7.4 per thousand increased to 7.8 per thousand according to 2013. It can be seen as a small increase, and when we do a small calculation, it means that 600 new babies die a year in our country where an average of 1.5 million babies are born. I would like to call upon the Ministry of Health to do first-level health care and improve that quality immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0022par0106	Mr. Turkmenoglu...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0023par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, curse the human drama of Gaza, this human drama in front of the world. Babies in arson, civilians, children, women, men are killed in front of the whole world. In Gaza, mankind is actually being killed. Let no country speak of fundamental rights and freedoms to Turkey. In some countries other than Turkey, we see single voices, but unfortunately, when those who die become Muslims, the eyes and ears of the world are closed. I think that the Muslims should quickly end these massacres, and especially in Ramazan months, because we see the same scenario every month, in the month of Ramadan, the Muslims must resist in unity, in power. I ask God's mercy to all the martyrs who have lost their lives in Gaza, I ask patience for the mothers who have lost their children, and I wish this drama to be over as soon as possible.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0024par0113	Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0025par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. In the spring of 2012-2013, students were sentenced to be removed from public office by Sedat Laciner, who was a professor at the Technical Sciences School of the University of Çanakkale. The pressure against students, professors and professors as an excuse for the travel resistance, along with their intimidation policies, the Çanakkale Eighteen Mart University Rector, who played on the staff's bread, broke the peace of the city of Çanakkale, with antidemocratic practices. An investigation into Çanakkale University Rector of March 18, Çanakkali, the city of peace, Çanakkale, the city of peace...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0024par0118	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0026par0120	Mr. President, thank you. Israel continues to terrorize this holy month of Ramazan. He slaughters civilians, children, women with tons of bombs. Israel does not recognise any laws or international rules; the international community remains silent. A woman MP reflects the true face of Israel: "The mothers must also die. " I condemn the massacres of Israel and this thought. This person, let alone motherhood, has not taken his share of humanity. He wishes for peace at once, he shouts that we are with Palestine, and I want to express that the true salvation has passed through the recognition of the Palestinian state.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0027par0124	Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0028par0126	Mr. President, our historical buildings are either falling out of care or burning down. Hüseyin Avni Pasha Palace was burned on 28 June in İstanbul. They call it burning. Did it really burn? This mansion and land were sold to Genghis Construction in 2009. Three days after the fire, the fire department filed a report. According to the report, there were no indications or elements of the exit of this fire. In one article, Mr. Happy Governor of Istanbul says: "We have lost our heritage of history and culture, and we are very sad. What have they been doing since June 28th? There's not enough information on that. What does the mayor of Istanbul say? We're waiting for answers. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0027par0128	Mr. Original, you have a request to make amends according to Article 58, I promise you from the bench. Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0029par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. During my speech on the group proposal of the People's Democratic Party yesterday, I would like it to be recorded in such a way that my statement to the MPs of the Islamic Republic of Turkey that they have crossed over to Syria by coming from Kafkasya, Chechnya, Tunisia, Morocco, Lebanon, Azerbaijan, Libya, Saudi Arabia, Turkey. In my speech here yesterday, it's as if Azerbaijan had a statement of support for this ISIS, and I am correcting it. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0030par0136	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the measures to be taken by investigating the causes of the floods and the resulting victims, the 104th and 105th of the TBM Civil Charter, under the 98th Articles of our Constitution, we make it necessary to open Parliamental research. 6/7/2012 [[Samsun]] [[Yozgat]] [[Kütahya]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] 14) Edip Semih Yalçın [[Gaziantep]] [[Ankara]] [[Inconceived]] [[Manisa]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mersin]] [[Paddles]] Natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, and landslides, are common in our country. The biggest loss of life and property after the earthquake was the flood. Finally, on 4 July 2012 in Canik district of Samsun, citizens of the 450-digit North Star residences were killed as part of an urban transformation project set up near the river by the Mert River. The flood of ten of our citizens lost their lives, and many of the houses on the flood route were badly damaged, has left all of Turkey deeply distressed. After the flood in Samsun, debates about construction and location were highlighted. In particular, it has been one of the most unsatisfactory issues that have been made about the wrong choice of places for TOKI dwellings, where most of their lives have been damaged. After this disaster, a rational urban planning of modern urbanization, including building, road, bridge, industrial facilities, water storage, green areas, waste storage and so on. The topography, geologic structures, hydrologic conditions, climate conditions, building materials, such as geological and geotechnics that affect the choice of suitable location for different qualified structures, has been seen more clearly to be prepared using scientific data-based techniques that will be needed for urban planning to be assessed separately and jointly assessed. By avoiding some political interest accounts, we need to consider urban development and urban planning, above all, the best assessment of all geological and geotechnical conditions of the region and the planned use of available areas. It has also been seen that the loss of life in Turkish Cypriot housing in Samsun's risky creek bed has been significant for the health of our citizens, life and property safety and the country's economy, for any application to be made, to make the choice of space, to make feasibility studies on topographic properties, to maintain the region's natural environment balance. It is the main duty of the state to provide basic services such as safety of our citizens, education and health, providing infrastructure services such as roads, water, electricity. In this sense, the flood in Samsun must be dealt with thoroughly, the compensation for the loss of our citizens who have suffered financial and spiritual trauma as soon as possible, and the wounds must be healed. Due to natural disasters, infrastructure problems that prevent extreme loss of life and property must be resolved. Reconstruction of rivers likely to flood under the flood disaster in Samsun should be launched in a comprehensive way by Turkey's flood map, by the government and its relevant ministry. Based on the flood disaster in Samsunn's Canik district, the parliamentary research commission is in place to establish a detailed map of Turkey's floods to prevent possible life and loss of goods due to floods, to identify areas where floods are likely to be found and to take necessary precautions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the case of Kemal Turks, whose judicial process has been terminated due to the statute of limitations and the fact that the perpetrators are protected by the state, we request and propose the opening of parliamentary investigation under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution in order to investigate other allegations about the judicial process, identify the real ones and share the findings with the public. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Mwah.]] [[Pain]] [[Bingöl]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Şırnak]] [[Adana]] 13) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] 17) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Van]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] Thirty-two years have passed since the murder of DİSK Founder and President Kemal Turks, who died in an armed attack on July 22, 1980. The case related to his death ended on December 1, 2010 on the grounds of the statute of limitations without the perpetrators. Thus, a murder case in Turkey's history, a black spot, which the state is clearly held accountable for, was left in the middle without any further light. During the time of the trial, his family testified as to who the perpetrators were, and the perpetrators' identities were made clear, but these allegations were ignored, and the case was dropped for nearly 30 years, and the perpetrators were eliminated two years before the trial, due to the statute of limitations. The closure of this important case, which may be considered one of Turkey's democratic exams, has re-enacted that the judiciary cannot act independently. The case has become a common belief that the perpetrators have not been consciously decided for the duration of the statute of limitations to protect them. His family argues that the perpetrators were known to the government and that even the state was responsible for the murder. The daughter of Kemal Turks, who died in the attack, strengthens the allegations that this should not be taken into consideration by the judiciary, even though one of the perpetrators publicly expressed his name. Kemal Turkish and similar cases have been timed out and closed, and the AKP government's thesis that unsolved murders have been shed light on. During the AKP's ten-year mandate, no unsolved political murder, which is clearly responsible for the state, has been cleared, and its perpetrators have not been brought to trial. The cases referred to as massacres have either resulted in acquittal or have been eliminated without an illumination due to the statute of limitations. Seven months have passed since 34 citizens were bombed and killed by the Turkish Air Force in Uludere (Qileban), but there is not a single person brought to trial while the responsible are in plain sight. This stance, which has become a judicial tradition in Turkey over the cases in which the state is held accountable, has led thousands of cases to move to the European Court of Human Rights, and Turkey has been wronged in most cases and has been sentenced to pay compensation for violating the right to a fair trial. As a result, Kemal Türkler's case has also moved to the ECHR, and it won't be surprising that the case will end against Turkey. Part 23 of the European Union's accession talks are the subject of "Judge and Basic Rights." But, like the Kemal Turks case, Turkey's confrontation with its past and the fact that cases that are vital for the democratisation of the judiciary are moving to the ECHM show again that Turkey has serious problems, especially in the area of democratisation, in the area of the judiciary, and that these problems have not been overcome. The move of the Kemal Turks' case to the ECHR would be one of Turkey's problems in terms of completing accession talks on both the judiciary and the basic rights, as well as the violation of the right to a fair trial under Article 6 of Turkey's European Convention on Human Rights. In view of all these developments, we offer the General Assembly's appreciation for the opening of a parliamentary investigation into the alleged judicial phase of the Kemal Turks case and for the discovery of the real responsible. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the reasons for the power outages in eastern and southeast provinces, without harming nature, with respect to the environment, with the aim of determining measures to ensure cheap, quality and uninterrupted electricity services, we would like to ask that Parliament investigate under Articles 104, and 105. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Mwah.]] [[Pain]] [[Bingöl]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Şırnak]] [[Adana]] 13) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] 17) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Van]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] The demand for electricity is increasing in parallel with the rapid growth of population and industrialisation. Although Turkey is rapidly increasing electricity production capacity compared to developed countries, using methods that ignore its damage to the environment and nature, per capita electricity consumption is far below the developed countries and the world average. According to the 2010 Electric Market Report, electricity per capita consumption in Turkey was 2,000 MWh in 2009, while the OECD countries had 8,000 MWh and 14,000 MWH in the United States, while the world average was 4,000 MWH. Although this is the case, Turkey is ranked first with the amount per capita for annual electricity consumption. Given the difference in intergalactic development, the most problematic areas of electrical service are the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions. In cities such as Batman, Şırnak, Van, Iğdır, Diyarbakır, Urbana, Bingol, Ağrı, Hakakari, Kars, Ardahan and Siirt, there is no electricity service provided in buildings without causing the quality of living and the quality of service and the quality of production and quantity of industrial enterprises. Farmers, whose land is watering system, complain of drying crops due to power shortages. Most of their fields are dry due to water shortages in Urbana due to power shortages. In cities such as Diyarbakır, Şırnak, Van, Mardin that make the use of air conditioning inevitable in summer, there is no continuous electricity service. Water shortages related to power outages are at extreme levels. The problem of power cuts and electrical currents has a negative effect on all populations in district centers and villages, including city centers. Electricity blackouts have become natural, especially in the seasons, the winds, and the winter months. There's no electricity in thousands of villages in the region during winter. Since the electricity used is extremely low and inferior, electric devices used in the summer and winter are causing immediate blackouts. In urban centers and districts, the tradesman is unable to use office equipment or the electrical instruments associated with the work they do efficiently. The process is extended for hours due to a fax in official apartments, a computer operation, or a power outage during a necessary procedure in a photocopier. Organised industrial areas can't function efficiently because of the cuts. The villagers who bring grain to the mills stand in line for hours because of the same tribulation. The most important reason for power outages is that there is no necessary infrastructure and lack of qualified personnel. Electricity lines across the region are 30 to 40 years old. These lines stand with maintenance and repair. The lack of additional transformers for lower transformers and new settlements reduces the quality of electricity and increases the cuts. Almost all villages use tree poles. These poles are positioned on citizens' land. The village roads are broad enough and there's no asphalt, so the new power poles can't be installed. All the tree poles used for the power line in the villages need to be removed from the grid, all the lines restored, new and capable electrical transformers for new settlements. Suspicions in consumers' minds about the cost of reading counters indicate a clear injustice. The amount of electricity they use and the amount reflected in the bill causes various doubts in the citizens' heads. Therefore, a comprehensive examination of the billing process should be initiated, considering the citizens' objections. Given all these problems, we'd like to offer the General Assembly's appreciation for the opening of a parliamentary investigation to ensure an uninterrupted, quality and cheap electrical energy. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (16/07/2014), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. On 7 July 2014, Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan gave 448 rows no. Lu) has been suggested that the Parliament's motion to investigate the National Assembly of Turkey for measures aimed at preventing and reducing drug use in our country be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which will be read on Wednesday 16/07/2014 and co-existed on the same date of talks. The first word in favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal belongs to Mr. İdris Bauken. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0031par0323	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion we made to prevent drug use and to take necessary measures. I salute you all. I don't think there's any need here to say that it's a very important matter. I'm sure that all lawmakers with a conscience would support this motion, and we're thinking that they'd start a study that the House would take initiative to prevent the use of this drug in front of us as a burning problem. Because there's been a particularly visible increase in drug addiction, and there's a huge concern in almost all social areas as a result of this increase. And I'm sure when you go to the polls, you hear these complaints from your own constituents or from many families who visit you. In particular, drug use nests around institutions where young people are normally entrusted, and children are normally entrusted, bringing the problem to us as an area of complete involvement. Schools and school environments come in the first place. While most parents send their children to schools to make their future clear and contribute to the future of society's people so that they can get a healthy education, drug traffickers who have been lurking around these schools have unfortunately brought a great danger to the country's agenda. It's almost an epidemic in high school, and the burning state of measures that have not been taken is now down to secondary school and primary education, and the clinical cases related to substance abuse in primary school children are a major problem every day. We think, for one thing, that security measures are completely inadequate, especially in these school and school environments, in the ruins that have not been used again, in the graveyards, in the isolated places, to access drugs and use them here. We also know that in many places, it's in the form of a conscious policy. For example, when we meet with many of our parents in Bingol, Diyarbakir, Van. In Urbana. When we meet with many of our constituents, even though there are very close police checkpoints, people tell us that these drug traffickers are not being interfered with, and we actually witness this in our own work, in our observations in the field. Some of the children who have been treated for this drug, especially the statements they gave at the police station, and the dialogues they've been in there, they're showing a really bad situation here. No matter what you do or don't get involved with the police, we're not very interested in them. The information he quoted as saying was reflected in the media, and it was reflected in the media's written press. This understanding, this mentality, is a mentality that endangers our future generations and ends the future for almost all of us. In order for this mentality to be abandoned, we need to make the whole community feel that we're taking this seriously. So we think it's very important that the whole community should feel that you've been able to deal with this problem, that you've been following it, that you've been following it. Of course, there are many social factors associated with this drug use. So let's take it from some socioeconomic difficulties to some of the different situations in which a person is experiencing, a young person, a child, an individual's social environment, or the definition of freedom is defined by this type of substance addiction, where we can sort out the reasons at a very different point until a wannabe. Most of the time, young people who are addicted to this substance, most of the children don't come up with anything at once. We observe that it's being used through understanding and then it's not getting out of this swamp. In particular, reports from NGOs provide information that can actually freeze our blood. There are indications that the average age of drug use in Turkey is between 15 and 24 years of age, but recently there has been a serious dive between 12 and 13 years of age, and there has been an increase in number of cases applying to clinics between 10 and 11 years of age. Again, the studies of these NGOs have shown that this use of drugs is growing in areas with higher income groups and metropolises, while now, in the slums of the metropolitan communities, the socioeconomic situation is bad, the poor environments, and the poor cities that are still poor. While reviewing reports from the Turkey Centre for Drug and Drug Addiction Watch, there are also some similar data, particularly serious findings on drug use under 15 years of age. Of course, we say that the fact that drugs are so easily accessible should be treated as a subject of self-criticism by the state for no reason whatsoever. We know that Turkey is actually the transit point of all international drug trafficking, the transit route. The 2011 International Drug Control Strategy Report, prepared in the United States, also identified in the European Union reports. We need to first admit that there is not enough policy to fight this, and we also need to admit that, along this transition route, we did not provide an important study to prevent this drug from invading our social communities. The figures are terrible: three times more heroin is seized in Turkey in one year than in all European Union countries, twice as much marijuana and ecstasy is seized, but there is information that the current traffic is several times higher than that. So, in such a picture, we would like to rephrase the need for some work to be done in order to take the necessary precautions. Of course, there have been mentions of a very deadly synthetic substance, particularly in recent days, called this ▪bonzai. I'm sure you're reading the media news. There's no marijuana, so the risk of death is much higher. There is a growing use of the synthetic bonzai tree because it is very accessible and very cheap after being processed by certain chemicals. This bonzai is moving very quickly towards death. The table that began with milder symptoms is usually associated with cannabis and heroin use, and we think that in a very short period of time, the government should take very serious measures, a way to die from liver failure to complete unconsciousness, and to feel the sudden sense of death to one. This bonzaine has this thing: I mean, I think it has little packages that can be easily accessed, even with the amount of $2 on the Internet. Those who can't find pot or get into a heroin crisis usually use it as a deterrent, and they're stuck in a vortex of death without knowing what kind of painting they're going to face. If we don't take the necessary measures to do so, if we don't intervene in the accessibility point, or in the case of this wild card drug situation, we're afraid that we may face death epidemics of serious deadly substance abuse. So I'd like to say that the entire House should be sensitive about this. I salute you all by stressing here that we expect support from the entire House.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0032par0337	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Adana MP Mr. Necdet Ünüvar against the People's Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0033par0341	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group to discuss the HDP group proposal. I salute you all. Dear friends, the drug issue is really very important. It's not just today, it's an important public health issue that concerns tomorrow very closely. It's really worth talking about every day. It's a very important matter that should be on our agenda at any moment. Of course, it's only about trafficking or the extent of causing different social problems, but it's a matter of health, in terms of public problems, social, legal, administrative aspects, terrorism, even violence in women, violence in health, and violence in sports. In our country, Turkey is co-ordinated by the Watch Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. A branch manager of the Ministry of Interior under the name TUBIM, but different institutions, NGOs, also support this institutional structure. Of course, there's no way to reduce substance abuse to one substance. In fact, when we call it substance abuse, we need to consider tobacco, alcohol, volatile substances, and drugs together, but we talk more often naturally because drug-related issues have more dramatic consequences. Of course, Mr. Baluken just mentioned the bonzai. Bonzai is one of the things that comes to our new agenda, a psychoactive substance. Of course, there's a fundamental misunderstanding of this substance in society: Bonzai is perceived as a single substance, but it's about 300 different combinations. The most famous one is called bonzai because it's being sprayed on bonzai leaves, but it's not just bonzai. In 2010, Isparta, Tekirdağ, Eskişehir and İstanbul were first brought up in our country, but now we have about 70 districts where police forces catch in different ways a substance that comes to our agenda in the form of a substance used by our own law enforcement force. There is, of course, an application for these issues: TUBIM is first reviewing it, along with Forensics, and after considering a substance as a drug, the Ministry of Health reports it to the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Ministers makes a decision. In this frame, around 110 psychoactive substances were banned. But the problem is, it's cheap, it's true. It comes to our country from countries such as China, America, Hungary, and even from countries like the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which can also come online. It's especially cheap to keep drug dealers on the market, and after a while, it's pretty obvious that the price will go up as the number of drug users increases. A study on this issue -- of course, a synthetic drug produced in a small chemical environment -- is being presented to the public in a drug produced by special organizations, and in different formats -- is useful to share this with the public: instead of reporting these substances and banning them, it is a more important group, with the Ministry of Health and the TUBIM working together with the Hacettepe School of Pharmaceuticals on how to ban them in a way that we call "regulation." When this is a generic classification, I think there may be some more general bans on how to reduce the availability of the substance in the market. Of course, it's not just the bonzai thing, it's the drugs. Drugs aren't really just supply-related, so it's not just smuggling. Drugs need to be evaluated under four major topics. First headline: prevention, protection. In particular, the goal here is to protect the young population, which has yet to use any addictive substances, and according to the research of TUBIM (TUBIM), the 2012 figures are around 2.7 percent of the time in a 15- to 64-year-old group to test the substance abuse agent once in a lifetime. This may seem lower than Western European countries, but the drugs are getting more and more high. Because Turkey has three main axes, the classic Silk Road through Turkey -- the North Black Sea and the Balkan route from Afghanistan, where cannabis, which is the most produced, is the natural drug, to the countries west of Turkey. In this sense, Turkey is at risk of increasing on a transit route. On the other hand, we know that synthetic drugs are produced in the West, not in Turkey, but in Turkey's transit route to countries south and east of Turkey. Therefore, we must take serious measures to protect the young people who have never met drugs. The prevention, the protection, the reduction of trafficking, the reduction of supply and reduction of demand, the reduction of users. The second part is the cure. We all know there's AMATEM, there's CEMAMAM, so it's about the use of alcohol and substance abuse at a child's age.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0034par0350	Where's my lawn?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0033par0351	There are now 2 CEMATEMs in Turkey, 28 AMATEMs in the university, the Ministry of Health and the private sector, but within the next three years, our government is building 13 new AMATEMs in different provinces, 7 CEMATES in city hospitals. Rehab size three is medical rehabilitation and social rehabilitation. We care deeply about rehabilitation, especially after using drugs, meaning integration with society, and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is currently doing a serious study on this issue. The fourth title is surveillance and evaluation. Of course, the drug that comes up with all these different dimensions has to do with very different ministries. Of course, it's very important, and it's very important, and it's worth looking at, but maybe Mr. Baluken doesn't know because he's not in Parliament last semester, and he's not even in Parliament right now, but last semester we did a really good job on the AK PARTY, CHP, MPP and BDP groups, and we did a really good job on it. Five of the 16 lawmakers who are currently doing that work are in the EC PARTI, one of them is in the MHP, and our friends from CHP are dead, not in Parliament, and our BDP friend is dead, Mr. Nuri Yaman and 487 pages, and we did a really good work -- Mr. Reshat Right -- and I sent all of them here -- and even last time, with the recommendation of the MHP Group's proposal to set up this parliamentary research commission, and I sent to all of our deputies both the 487-page report and the summary, which we printed in color -- and I sent them all of them all in the mail. In fact, we had an important proposal in them -- the establishment of the national drug coordination supersidiary. The government has taken a very important step towards this issue, and they've invited me to join them on Monday, with six ministers as head of the Drug Commission and as head of the Health Commission, and a road map has been set. It wasn't just bonzaine, it was a meeting where every aspect of drugs was discussed in different aspects of social, social, health, terrorism, and it was decided to meet periodically, and I'm going to attend those meetings. There are seven ministries, including the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Justice, and the top officials of the seven ministries of the Ministry of Youth and Sports will be gathered periodically, and will really work on the measures that need to be taken. Like I said, really, this is a matter that should be on our agenda at any moment, and it's something that we have to work at all times. There was a bag of laws recently, and there were some changes in the TCK. In a moment, our Istanbul MP, Mr. Bulent Turan, will inform you of this matter. In particular, there was an impression that drug use was almost as if it were not a crime, and a very important substance change was made to eliminate that impression. In addition, significant changes have been made to increase criminal procedures for planting and selling drugs. Mr. Turan will be with you shortly. Now, of course, the advice of the HDP Group on paper is actually very important, and this matter needs to be investigated, but we've looked into it, and all the ministries related to our proposals are bringing it up. Therefore, it is important that the proposals proposed by the research commission should be implemented by the ministries and by the government, not by re-establishing a research commission for this issue, but by... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...as part of our Ministry of Health co-ordinator. And from time to time, frankly, as head of the Drug Research Commission, he says that he considers it a truly essential task for himself to inform the House and Parliament, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0035par0360	Thank you, Mr. Unüvar. Mr. Hamzacebi, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0036par0365	Thank you, Mr. President. We're discussing an important matter. We're discussing the People's Democratic Party's proposal for the negative effects of drugs, drug use, youth and society. It's a very important issue, but as the Republican People's Party Group, we were unable to express our views because we had no say in this proposal. To date, all political parties in this parliament have discussed and expressed their views on the proposals of the political party group. A political party group has four rights to talk about its proposal; 2 sides, 2 opposites, and 4 talks are divided among 4 political parties. If three opposition parties brought group proposals, the total number of rights to speak is 12. The number 12 is divided between four parties, including the EC PARTY. Opposition parties are able to express their views on all group proposals. We're in a Parliament that has carried out such a democratic compromise despite all else. But today I saw this compromise being thrown aside by the AK PARTY, and the two anti-party talks on the group proposal of the People's Democratic Party were taken by them. I requested it from them, and they responded negatively to my request. I offer this negative attitude to the discretion of the General Assembly and Parliament, our nation. A moment ago, there was an Antalya MP here who criticized our president on the basis of the phrase "Special election." I suggest he understands what democracy is, what the attitude towards democracy is, based on the attitude of his party group. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0037par0370	He went off on his own. So it's okay.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0038par0371	Thank you. In favor of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Mr. Reshat Right. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0039par0378	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received a pledge from the People's Democratic Party Group Chairman in order to prevent and reduce drug use in our country. I salute the High Council. Respected lawmakers, in the coming period, I think, the most important issues in our country are addiction. When it comes to addiction, we can count not only a substance abuse, but also a variety of addictions, such as electronic addiction, Internet addiction. So from cell phone addiction to knee addiction to television addiction, there are a lot of issues involved, and I think that's at the beginning of the most important problems of the 21st century. Of course, at the beginning of this particular issue, the subject of drugs, is a very important problem for our country and the world every day. Regarding this problem, of course, first, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has important tasks. Perhaps one of the aims of the research proposal should be to bring it up and take measures and measures in parliament. Honourable lawmakers, as Adana MP Necdet Ünüvar Ünüvar Ünük, a very important research group has been formed and a very busy study has been conducted in our parliament in the past period. And since that study has been done, I would like to express my thanks from here, again, to our president, and to our fellow lawmakers who served at the time, and from their contributing experts to his other people. Indeed, some very important work had been done, and the results of those studies had been brought to the attention. But, of course, there's a very different feature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: research proposals are being investigated very well, they're being investigated very well, and then reports are being prepared, and these reports are being discussed in our Parliament, and the proposals are all being brought up. And after it was brought in, all the proposed parts of them should be done, all the necessary -- I mean, the legal procedures -- have to be made; plus, at the end of that period, they need to be followed. But interestingly, as with all research proposals, there has been no study done in this one, as well as in the result of these investigations. So at some point, it's been months, years of labor, and we don't have a lot of follow-up to do that. I think the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should change that habit. Because in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we know, there's a lot of research going on. All research is then put on shelves, and they wait for further research on dusty shelves. However, I believe that what we're discussing today is very important, especially in the coming period, especially in the 21st century, when the creation of the New World Order, and the change of expectations from social life in society, the distortions and situations in the family structure are revealed. See, one of these days, a substance called fucking bonzai is now on Turkey's agenda for drugs. The Bonzai issue, of course, has to be evaluated in a very different way: new substances about drugs are being introduced every day, new substances are being introduced, and they continue to ruin our people's lives. Honourable lawmakers, this problem is not only a certain number of people, it's a problem with the elderly and the young and the poor and the rich and the men and the women, it's a problem with all of us, it's a problem. See, according to U.N. data -- drug deaths -- around 250 million people in the world are using drugs. In the United States, about 30,000 people die from drugs each year, for example, trying to reveal a statistical information. Of course, when we look at these things, we're dealing with marijuana, amphetamines coming in, here comes cocaine, and now we're dealing with a very dangerous and rapid measurement in many forms of use, such as heroin. The work of the Ministry of Health -- we have closely observed the work of the Ministry of Health recently -- not just as the Ministry of Health, but as the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, but as the Ministry of Youth and Sports or as many other ministries have to do their best in this regard. However, it's interesting, see, there's the European Youths Evaluation Project, which was implemented in Europe, which was once implemented in our country, but was not allowed by the Ministry of National Education since 2003, as we call the EESPAD Project, called the ESPAD Project. Interestingly, as of 2003, the Ministry of National Education has refused to accept the research on this, does not pave the way for research, or closes it. Of course, we've said that several times. As a person, I tried to give the Ministry of National Education both written and verbal questions. Plus, with it, again, I'm one of the most-spoken MPs in the Turkish National Assembly. In my speech at all times, make sure that we bring the EESPAD Project back to our agenda as the Ministry of National Education. In this regard, let's determine the state of drug use in our schools, the state of substance use, and take measures according to it. Despite what I said, I see that the Ministry of National Education did not give permission for this ESPAD Project. Once again, we call this project, where statistical information among young people is provided in all European countries -- all of the schools -- is supported, so why isn't this supported in our country? And I want to say this in a way that hopefully the State Department of Education will hear our voice and reopen the project about it, and we'll be able to get the statistics out of our country. See, in the latest study conducted by the Turkish Psychological Association in the 15-24-year-old group in 7.681, I think it should make us all think that 27 percent of us, the first time in our country, are regular smokers, 9.2% of them are drinking alcohol, 2.9 percent of them are trying to express that at least one of their friends has met the substance by expressing that they have used substance. Again, in a study conducted in seven different high schools, I used 12.2% cigarettes, 23.5% alcohol, 2.3% substance in life at least once. So I'd like to say that we're also facing very serious problems with drugs, unfortunately, in an environment where the use of paint thinners or children, people on the street, have increased exponentially. Respected lawmakers, drug use is destroying the entire body, organs, starting with brain and central systems. This destruction doesn't just stay in people's bodies. We see the same image of this destruction in the human family, we see it in society, and we see it completely in the society structure. Unfortunately, we can't do that when we need to do most of that in our schools or in our homes with simple measures. Look, there are about 150,000 prisoners and prisoners in our prisons in our country right now. We see that these convicts and prisoners are in prison for drug crimes at nearly 30 per cent and 40 per cent. So the fact that it's increasing day by day means that there's a very serious problem in society that's coming up on our agenda. Of course, in another way, outside of Turkey, especially in the Turkish community living in the countries of the European Union, we see that people are in prison for drug use and drug crimes. In recent studies in European prisons, we have found that there are approximately 30,000 Turkish prisoners in the countries of the European Union. A large percentage of these prisoners lie in European Union prisons for drug use or drug crimes. Here's the thing: the countries of the European Union are sending all of their children or people back to Turkey, especially after their crimes are over, especially the people in their prisons for drug crimes. When he sends them back to Turkey, they go to his village, they go to his town, he infects people there in the shape of a time bomb, and we see that we are facing a very serious problem. Of course, it's also part of the drug trade. Currently, drug trafficking is at the head of the most important sources of revenue for terrorist organisations. When you've looked at the financial resources of the terrorist organization when you're in a great deal of trouble in our country at the point of terrorism, we see that this has cost about $10 billion. In the end, I think serious measures for drugs should be taken, and the measures taken should be followed. Of course, in the past tense, there were commissions, investigations, but that means that the work we've done or our research or the results that we've done haven't exactly been able to prevent the drug. Therefore, I think it would be appropriate for me to establish a new commission. And in this way, he says we'll vote on it, so I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0040par0398	Thank you. Mr. Row, please.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0041par0402	Mr. President, thank you. I just got word from the Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman, and I want to thank you again for your promise. Peoples' Democratic Party's group proposal is a really important issue, bringing up the issue of drugs. I find the sensitivity of all groups very valuable, very important. It's the problem of our children, of our youth. Talks with consultations are determined because of what has been done earlier. Surely good intentions are always essential, but we have found it important that our health, family and addiction, which are the key to the importance of this matter, and that our Health Commission President talks in order to refresh his memory because he is an expert in health, family and addiction, and has been the first in the previous work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and in the context of punishment, there are changes made in the Turkish Penal Code and a young MP speaking. More talk has been given to MPs from the National Movement Party, or there has been no study different from earlier practices. I'd like to thank Mr. Akif and our fellow deputies for his sensitivity again. I want to explain that this matter is important and that any information, any sharing that might contribute to it, is valuable. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0042par0408	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0043par0409	We're not here yet, you already told me.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0044par0410	It's against the tradition of the House, Mr. President. Mr. Group Vice President's statement may satisfy themselves, but there is a political party here...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0043par0411	Mr. Pine, please, it's okay. Mr. Bulent Turan, Istanbul MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0045par0418	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge on behalf of our group against the HDP group proposal. As you all know, we have an agenda in Turkey about a problem that we think is very important, which has been very much on the agenda lately. But as this problem pains all of us, we also need to know some data that doesn't change every day when the problem comes to our agenda. Dear friends, the drug issue, as you know, it's only Turkey's business, not ours, the drug issue is the world's problem. I want to remind you that more than 200 million users are involved, that more than $500 billion of trade is on the agenda, that terrorist organizations are involved, that other structures are involved, that there is a major war on our young people, along with very different structures, along with economic grounds. This is the problem of the world, not of the present, but of the thousand years. Dear friends, what's important to us is that Turkey is also in a very central place at the birth of this market in international transfers by the geopolitical position of Turkey. Another important concern is that transit from some countries you know is being used in Europe or other countries, while Turkey is also being used in other countries. In the event that a number of specific and social reasons, such as living in heavy, strict environments, such as unrest, are involved, there is no such thing as a d. We see tragic consequences in the way that your understanding spreads from ear to ear, and death. They've just expressed technical information, what drugs are, what measures have been taken, what work has been done in the past, our esteemed Health Commission Chairman Necdet Ünüvar Bey. Dear friends, as you all know, from time to time with your contribution, with different approaches, even with arguments, you know that the fifth package of judgment passed through our Parliament 15 or 20 days ago and was approved by our President. While there are many different topics in this judicial package, one of the most important issues was the measures taken by the Police in the fight against drugs to ensure that justice can do much faster and much more clearly. I find it helpful to remind you of these measures. Dear friends, as you know, the penalty for cannabis production was one year to seven years in prison until yesterday. In accordance with our Penal Code, you know that a large number of crimes that started with a year have always been postponed in practice, along with some other punishments, such as supervised freedom. However, with the new legal arrangement last week, the lower limit for this sentence has been reduced to four years, so the cannabis plant has been sentenced to four years to twelve years. It means that whoever's dealing with cannabis is going to jail for the first time. It was the flaw of the institution, it was the flaw of the institution, and we caught it and it left it. It means that some so-called righteous statements such as the so-called expression will no longer be used. Dear friends, another important arrangement has been reduced from 20 to 30 years from last week's arrangement, while the sentence for exports, manufacturing and importing of drugs has been reduced from ten years to ten. These are very important and very high punishments when we look at international standards. Another regulation: The penalty for selling drugs and stimulants has been sentenced from five to 15 years, while the current arrangement has been released from ten to 20 years. That was an important arrangement. The release of drugs and drugs to the child was decided that if sold, the prison sentence would not be less than 15 years. I'd like to say again: if there are children outside the normal arrangement, it has been decided that there will be no less than 15 years in which to sell the child and evaluate the child. I won't go into other elaborate arrangements to avoid taking your time, but I'd like to say again that if there's anyone who deals in drugs, makes money out of drugs, makes people's lives miserable, they're going to be punished with higher punishments than the old ones, and they're going to get extra punishment -- if it's an organization crime -- for example, if it's a conditional release, a number of legal regulations set up in our criminal code department, such as probation -- will be very different after the bill last week's bill. Of course, my fellow lawmakers, only increased sentences will not be the only reason to fight drugs; it's very important, but it's not the only reason. We all know that AMAMEM and other institutions are very quickly increased -- 11 AMATEM centers in 2002 are 29 today -- but, yes, they're very good studies, but I hope, with all the relevant steps being taken from the agenda of Turkey, it's a demand for all of us to get more help in this regard. And as you know, in the past few weeks, it's been in the press, and there's been a high-profile board, such as the Anti-drug Oversight Board. Like the Ministry of Health on this upper council, we have increased hope that six key ministries such as Justice, Internal Affairs, National Education, Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Labor have met and held a meeting, that the Supreme Council has implemented measures, and that the next road map has been removed. The intensity of police operations in recent years, the successful results, are also known to all of you. It is with great pride and pride that the relevant ministries have come to life every day in their projects, that each ministry has been sensitive about it and has taken new and concrete steps. Dear friends, but no matter what happens, no matter what the ministry takes, the law has done this, and justice has done this. The closest person to the child is his mother, his father, and then his friend. We hope that the meetings, which are brought up for the creation of this awareness, that the work, the reflection of the motions, and the families are much more sensitive in this regard, that if there is something he suspects, he will share it with those involved, and that they will contribute the most in this great struggle. It is our greatest hope that our young ones will take advantage of their friends by staying away from their understanding, by taking steps in this matter, by our teachers, our administrators. Dear friends, I'd like to thank all my friends, including the HDP Group, who brought this up. However, just one week, ten days ago, in the very important section of the law on drugs, the fact that the legislation, which is made up of important and many important items such as the bag of law, concerns almost every part of the society, says that we will vote with respect to the HDP group proposal, which Mr. ÜÜüvar.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0046par0435	Thank you, Mr. Turan. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, the group proposal is rejected. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting on Wednesday (July 16, 2014), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On January 21, 2014, it was suggested that our motion to conduct a full investigation into the rights of academics in order for Turkey to be named after Turkey in the changing and developing world of science, on Wednesday (July 16, 2014), on Wednesday (July 16, 2014) as part of the Parliamentary Committee (now) for a thorough investigation of the rights of academics in the international and national arena. In favor of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal, Mr. Oğuz Oyan, MP of İzmir. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0047par0451	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have come to the agenda of the House over and over again. The last time, on January 21, 2014, this issue was discussed again over a research proposal. There are so many studies that show how the rights of university professors and assistants have declined over the last ten years, yet it is unthinkable not to be corrected. Look, from 2001 to 2013, a national income increase has increased by 7 times; civil servants' salaries have increased by 11 times, good; teachers have 9.5 times, so that's good, okay. Well, about the professors, the professors' salaries are five times higher. So the national income is 7 times higher, 9.5 times higher, 5 times higher than the professors, 5.2 times more than the assistant professors, 6.3 times the research staff -- a little bit more than a little bit more than a very bad thing -- and 4.2 times the increase of national income for professors. This tells us one thing: Besides, the rates of salary between academics differed; there used to be less difference between the professor and the professor, and now it's more because your doctor has increased less. This is, in fact, how little we care about scientific research. Look, I'll give you a striking example -- let's not compare the governor, the governor, the general manager -- our advisors here at the House, the first-degree advisor, are getting a salary, more or less. I mean, what kind of imbalance is that? I mean, I'm not saying that the counselors here took a lot, but don't get me wrong, but it's not acceptable for a professor, a professor, a assistant professor, a research worker, a professor, to take it far below the standards of the world. The investment in this place is never going to go to waste if there's an increase in rights to this place. If we really want to prioritize science, if we have this problem -- it seems controversial -- we should do it. In fact, beyond that, we need to create a special status for scientific research, so we need to develop a new understanding that supports scientific research. So, we see here that there's a very serious problem, but I wish the troubles were just about the salary. I'm a friend of yours from a university faculty, a member of your membership, who's been in these institutions for 30 or so years -- including the doctor -- let me just say that college is the environment where the university is going to recess. If there is no freedom environment, if there is no structure for scientific freedom, if there is no decent administrative structure, if there is no administration, science does not grow in an environment where such free air does not breathe -- from its administration to university presidency, to its deanship. Science likes to be contrary, and when you're not contrary, you can't produce science. Science, by shaking its head, sir. Yes, sir. Not by taking and passing on certain issues from some people; creativity, creativity, manufacturing, it requires being incompatible for it. And in order to be indiscriminate, you have to have no pressure from university administrations, no pressure, no production, no science. But look, now in Turkey, all the universities are going out of their way. There are some of the world's most distinguished universities here in Germany, France, America, outside the capital, don't get it geographically. In Turkey, what we call this territorialization is actually spreading today as an increasingly contagious disease that includes universities in many centers, so we're dealing with a new situation in which science is being put into second place. Look, there are 176 universities in Turkey today, 102. Now, there are 122,000 professors at these public universities, which represent 19,000 universities, or public universities, 86 per cent. The rights to equity at foundation universities are better than public colleges. So there's an escape, and there's a process that feeds it. Well, I mean, your student, the number of students, 5,89,000 students at public universities as of 2013, 93 percent at public universities, 351,000 at foundation universities. I mean, what do you have to do? For one thing, you need to prioritize the public universities that make up the main backbone in these public universities, the main backbone of university education. So, encourage all you want, you can't base a college education on foundation colleges. You're already seeing it these days, you know, in college selection, it's all about market competition. In all the newspapers, televisions, college competition, the foundation colleges, they were particularly competitive about it. Here's how many scholarships we're giving you, et cetera, et cetera. Look, I'll tell you this honestly: today's public colleges -- there are 104 universities -- about half of them don't deserve the university quality, the identity. About two thirds of the foundation universities do not deserve the identity of a university. They're not even high school level, and maybe they're not even in our 60s high schools, and I went to high school in the 60s -- not even at the level of high school. So we have to have a college policy here. There is no doubt that this policy has a moral rights foot, but secondly, this is the general framework, which is the basis for the creation of this freedom environment. Look, I'll tell you something else: a job guarantee... if a university professor is threatened with job security -- which is the major part, under the threat, research workers, assistant professors -- then how could he have a department head, dean, chancellor's bat in his head at any moment of freedom of science? It can be thrown out, it can not be extended. So you have to take care of this once. I mean, college teaching is not compatible with that kind of curved status. Besides, there's a difference between these curvature statuses. I mean, we hire research workers from two different positions in colleges. One leg of this is described as being employed, staffed, right, according to Article 33 of the CEC Law (a) joke, but the larger employment foot, according to Article 50 of the Law (d) joke, which is the curvature, or scholarship studentship, and the doctorate is out the door. Is that an understanding? So, for one thing, those who are involved in this whole 50th article (d) need to be included in the 33th article (a) joke. If you want to give a scholarship out of it, give it to me, give it to me in grad school. In fact, I'll tell you this: either graduate students and PhDs in Turkey or students after a certain class of medicine are being used as an invisible labor army, my dear friends, for free. If you're gonna give me a scholarship, you're gonna give it to me right here. I mean, you have to take into account the people you work for at the university, but you don't have any social security in any way, into a network of jobs. Thus, scientific research activities need to be defined as a labor process, and the rights of researchers here must be given correctly. College professors' fees have to be indexed for national income, and the losses in between have to be shut down immediately. Because at today's salary level, at once, a university professor is unable to create conditions for living in line with his social status, and he can gradually shift to additional classes, research projects, etcetera, to a number of areas that exclude his original work, his basic research and education. So, we support this motion as the Republican People's Party, and we hope that you will support it. Thank you for your concern.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0048par0463	Thank you, Mr. Oyan. Mr. Ercan Candan is a member of the Zonguldak MP against the party's proposal for nationalist movement. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0049par0467	Mr. President, I have made a solemn pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on behalf of the EC PARTI Group on the basis of a motion to investigate the status of academics in the international and national arena and to investigate the issues related to the development of solutions. On this occasion, I salute you all. Of course, it is possible to raise qualified people of the future through training. The basis of this education is actually higher education institutions, universities, which we all agree on. Of course, while we're talking about this -- they just mentioned some stuff about colleges -- but I think it would make more sense to comment after we've made this structure a little bit more specific after we've made it a little bit more clear. Here's the thing: in 2002, when we had 76 universities, we now have 176 universities. That means the number of colleges has increased by 2.5 times. As we went up to 2.5, our student population actually reached about 5 million when we were just under 2 million, which went up 2.5 times, but just as our predecessor, our speaker friend, said, there was an inadequacy in the number of professors. This number, the professor, the assistant professor, was up from about 28,000 to 30,000, when we looked at the number of professors. That means there's no proportional increase due to college growth, depending on the number of students, but there's one thing that's been overlooked here, and that's the resources that are assigned to universities. The resources for universities were around 2.5 billion in 2002, while 15 billion today. Why am I saying this by drawing the frame? I'm just saying that, in fact, as the AK PARTY government, we've focused primarily on solving the university's infrastructure and resource problem, but in the meantime, we've focused on teaching programs. The question here is, as the question motion has been made, yes, there's a slowness somewhere, which is the problems with the rights of the faculty, their salaries. In this regard, we have discussed it many times among ourselves, in our own group, and we wanted to consider it with the newly prepared, preparing SEC Law. But there's one thing that's forgotten, the faculty's income is actually divided into two parts: one of them is the rotating capital part, one is the salaries and additional tuition fees. Unfortunately, the income of return capital practices -- again due to the CEC Law -- was made entirely according to medical school. There's some structural problems here, and that's where the problem comes from. There's nothing wrong with our fellow medical students or our law-enforcement professionals. We have a real problem with our friends who are teaching in basic science, engineering, and other social sciences. As I was saying earlier, yes, we have this problem, but we've discussed it with both our ministers and with the SEC, and with our Prime Minister, these work are going on, hopefully, as soon as possible, we'll discuss all of this with the SEC Law. Of course, there's one thing we've missed here: we've made a law in the past few weeks, what is it, my friends? The Law on Supporting Research Infrastructures. Why are we standing on this? For this reason: In fact, the fact that we can't compete with international science in Turkey is that we can't produce products based on innovation, based on invention, basically because we're not in an international race. One of the main reasons for this is not just salary, friends, but this -- one of the main reasons -- is that universities don't have a motivation with their rotating capital and universities' research infrastructure. In fact, this law will also bring with it a heavy change in universities. So the manufacturer will win, just like in America, just like in England. If you can produce something, you'll win. For him, this law is very important to direct professors to a kind of production, service and new products, which will also be reflected in our professors in the coming days, of course, for those who produce. Besides, we're waiting for this law to open up the faculty at universities to the world. By the way, patent revenues are also connected to rotating capital, again, so, as I said, we actually have to change the CEC Law from top to bottom, not just their salaries, but hopefully they'll be dealt with in the coming days. We just said, of course, that colleges don't just have issues with equity rights, they have physical structure issues. The universities in Asia Minor are growing rapidly. These universities are not going to grow quickly from yesterday to today, but you can see that among many universities in large cities, good universities have also started to emerge and appear in Anatolia; they have started to receive patents, they have started to come to places in scientific literature. However, hopefully, there will be better developments in the coming days. Why am I saying this? Actually, there's a big problem right in front of us. What's this? The problem with not producing is that I can't develop projects, that I can't predict problems ahead of Turkey. For example, I'll give you an example of the incident in Soma. There were no research projects done from our university in the time of the soma, no reports of accidents there, no studies of damage there, reduction of workers in production increases, or mechanization, the development of electromechanical systems. Why wasn't it made? Because, as I just said, the congestion in the university's rotating capital system takes you somewhere and allows you to bring it in and not to run it, because it's a direct income in the professor's pocket, unfortunately, but in the coming days, I believe that the rights of teaching members will improve, with the changes in the CEC Law and the support of these new Research Substructures that we've created, as well as with the fact that the new research facilities in colleges have been established. But in the meantime, should the rights of faculty be improved? That's right, and I'm doing our work on the other side of it again. In the meantime, I'd like to say that we're voting against our group, and I'd like to give you all a little respect.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0050par0476	Thank you. In favour of the nationalist movement group's proposal, Mr Sinan Oğan, the Iğdır MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0051par0480	Mr. President, I'm talking about the research motion we've submitted as the National Movement Party to improve the rights of academics. I salute you all. When we just listened to a fellow power representative, dear friends, we saw him speak as if another group had been in power for 12 years, as if another party had been in power. Dear friends, who has been in power for 12 years? If you haven't been able to do that in 12 years, if you haven't done any studies on academics in 12 years, when are you going to? So we can say that there's no understanding that he's in power, but he still thinks he's in opposition, that there's no possibility of any improvement in the rights of academics. Dear friends, Mr. Prime Minister Vision Document explains the presidential candidate, here he is, talking about the science world, saying Turkey will prepare for 2023. Well, then who are you going to do it with? You're not going to do this with this country's scientists, you're going to import scientists from the outside? From 2003 to today, the salary increase of the scientists in Turkey is only 6 per cent and only 6 per cent. There's been a 6 per cent increase in ten years, while the inflation in Turkey is in the middle. In other public institutions, there are seven in some, nine in others, 10 in others, while in Turkey, the only ones whose salary is not increased are academics whose rights are not improved. And just as the academics were not subject to any improvements during this period of your transition, you said in advance that we would vote against this motion. Well, you bag everything. Thirty-six days this bag of laws has been discussed. Soma's been set off, it's been set off as 60, it's reached 160. I'm asking you from here: you know how to put everyone's rights in that bag, are academics your stepson or the academics the stepson of this power? Is it because academics are the thinkers of society, the thinkers of society, that you view academics as stepchildren? Dear friends, we cannot allow Turkey to move forward by excluding our academics. Turkey's production of industry, without producing science, has had serious declines in recent years, according to your predecessors. In total industrial production, we're in a country where high-tech products are supposed to increase every year, but they're falling more and more. You haven't been able to achieve half of the target you put in RD as 2%. We're in Turkey where money spent on RD is getting smaller. Think of a country where academics have to find additional jobs to make a living. Think of a country where high-tech production is going down in industrial production. Think of a country, where the share of R&D goes up, it falls down, and you can't even reach half of your goals at RD. So, how does this country go forward? It's impossible for an academic, scientist, a country that's been excluded and is looking to make a living, friends. So, come, to this motion of ours... surprise us once, surprise the Turkish nation, and let's really consider the situation of our academics. In Turkey, if an academic from the university secretary general, the faculty secretary, is getting less salary from that university secretary -- I don't mean that the faculty secretary is getting a lot of salary, but if the academic is getting less money from the secretary there, friends, this unfair system is not going to help the country. We've graduated from those academys, we're congressmen here today, and our children, our future generations, grow up in the hands of these academics, and they have this dough in their hands. If the academic can't get his book to read, if he's just trying to support his home, how does he produce information, how does he come up with ideas, and how can he prepare our children for the future? The esteemed legislator of the ruling party is speaking just now, saying: "Sir, the SEC Act will change." After that, the situation of the academics will be discussed. The ECHR Act changes dramatically when it comes to changing the rectors. If it's about appointing a chancellor, you can do that right away, but for 12 years, for some reason, you can't make any arrangements to correct and improve the situation of the academics. You're at the end of your three-term power, you're still out here criticizing like an opposition MP, you're saying: there are these problems, there are these problems. The SEC Law has not changed, so we can't do that. Do academics have to come to the door of the House? Do academics who are supposed to be dealing with science have to leave the student, the university, and go on the streets? It seems that Turkey is being given the right to those who do not fall on the street or to those who do not go on the street; only those who want to come and take it by force are taking it. Other than that, we are academics, a respected cut by society, let's not fall on the street, let's not come and shackle ourselves in front of the Assembly. Our people have been patiently waiting for twelve years, but let's just say that our academics have run out of patience, friends and community, because the scientists who produce science, because they shape our future, are now in debt, and the academics will now walk to the door of the Assembly, and then they won't tell. What are you gonna do, pepper spray our academics, hand them out by the police? From here, as the National Movement Party, the situation of our academics is pathetic, that our academics can't go to conferences, that our academics can't go to international meetings, that our academics can't produce enough science to support their homes, yet they're producing well, I'll tell you that in parentheses, despite these impossibilities, God is pleased with our academics, they're still doing very well, to some extent. If an academic is in the lowest level of income in a society, if he is in that category, friends, that shame is on all of us, this shame is on our Parliament; this shame is on the party of power more than any of us. It shouldn't have to worry about how to bring home the academics, the professors of the community, the scientists, the ones who are going to build our futures, the ones who are going to raise our children, the ones who are going to bring them home in the evening. You're bragging that we've opened so many universities...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0052par0492	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0051par0493	Right, it's not a lie, it's a mushroom college. And who are you going to employ there in that university, our people who can't get a job, who can't get a job as a last resort, who can't find a higher profession like academicism? Guys, look, I'm an academic, I'm a friend of yours from colleges, and I'm a friend of yours who knows the situation of our academics. Academicism must be a profession where the top layer of society can go and deal with it. The teachers of our children who shape our future. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...because he can't find a job, he says it shouldn't be people who leave, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0053par0499	Thank you. Ardahan MP Orhan Atalay against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0054par0503	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. He knows where we get our colleges from. We have nothing to say to you if you don't want to see it. However, in this speech, I will make a speech, especially in the eyes of the world, to condemn Israel, about the atrocities it displays in Palestine and Gaza. The tragedy of the Middle East, which has become more and more profound every day as a result of a sharing of the evil interests of the powers that have won the First World War, which are most deserving to pass as the sole patron of countless atrocities, is beyond the reach of endurance. For centuries, it has been a relatively successful tradition of living with all kinds of religious, ethnic sects and cultural identities, which represent a more advanced phase of Middle Eastern society, which I'm sure deserves to divide the life of the other into artificial states they built with their own hands and spit on each other's property, property, rape, each and every one of them today, into the wolf of the other, hell, hell, hell, hell, hell, hell, hell, hell. If you look at any geography that has been sacrificed to the banditry of the white man under the fingernails, from yesterday's unrooted Indians to the Indian continent, or from the Middle East to the pit of fire, or from today's Middle East, wearing a shirt of death, I'm sure if you listen deeply to the conscience of the land where white feet have been passed down to Africa, I'm sure you'll hear the cry of Akif. To the face of Salib, the man of the house! Spit out their promise never to be trusted! See the mascara creature called civilization, Spit on his masked conscience! The greatest work of this project, since the first World War, when the imperial forces of the Middle East, who attacked the Middle East with an insatiable ambition, such as a starving hyena, were, after they had purged the Ottomans from the Ottomans of the Ottomans, no doubt, has been the state of Israel, whose wrath clouds are not missing in its sky, but only the grapes of torment grow in its place, the poor of feeling, the wretched conscience, the rights and freedom killer. I'm sure Western civilization couldn't have had a greater joy. His historical record was polluted by asking his own prophets for idols, by slaughtering his prophets and his people for justice, by the practice of slavery in Egypt, by Roman and Babylonian exiles, or by which he suffered from the Nazis, by the sick tradition of the state of Israel, in the shadow of its masters, today, he served God, violence, religion, and violence daily worship. At the bottom of the Crying Wall, when we hear these so - called verses from their books, which they refer to as "blessing" in the morning and evening, we will better understand what kind of danger it is to all mankind, not just the Palestinians. In his so-called scriptures, he says: And the Lord said unto Israel, Thou art my rod and my weapon of war: I will break with thee the nations, and destroy the cities. And I will break with thee the horse and the rider, and the chariot, and the rider, and the man and the woman, and the old man, and the young man, and the poor girl, and the shepherd, and the flock, and the farmer, and the couple, and the governor, and the governor, and the governor. [[Jeremiah, chapter 51]] Kenan, the land of the Philistines is against you, and the word of the Lord is against you. I will destroy you, so that no one will dwell in you anymore. And they shall not be buried, but shall be like dung on the face of the earth; and their carcasses shall be food to the beasts of the earth and to the birds of heaven. [[Jeremiah, chapter 26]] And I will root thee with famine, and the remnant shall be slain. O great gate, cry out, O city, thou hast melted, thou hast vanished from head to toe. Yes, don't think that the word of the great prophet Moses was the Lord, and the book was the Torah that was sent down to Moses. For, in the Torah of Moses, the Lord of Moses, it is as if anyone who kills a soul on earth wrongfully has killed all men. Thus, if it were the Lord, then it would be the violent Zionism, just as the people of Israel had once made Pharaoh their lord. Clearly, in a social, political, cultural, and religious climate created by this knowledge and consciousness, the state of Israel was never able to live at peace with others. In fact, in the history of over half a century, it would be naive to expect a change in the traditional policy that Israel could never give up, no matter what excuse or lie he took. For it must not be forgotten that in every process that results in an independent Palestinian state, the violent assault, not giving up even the smallest part of Jerusalem, preventing the return of the Palestinians in the diaspora, maintaining new Jewish settlements in the lands in which they are occupied, and retaining certain resources, especially water, at all costs, is the sole source of Israel's existence. He followed this policy, no matter what government came to power from the right and the left, from the most liberal to the religious. Those who compromise will end up like the fate of Isaac Rabin, who was killed by a religious fanatic in November 1995. Israel, who has been depressed by an alliance between El Feteh and Hamas, an important paradigm in the history of Palestinian resistance recently, wants to remove the anger of Israel as if it wants to make the Palestinians regret this alliance, as if they were challenging the world with their brutal attacks on Gaza, which it has transformed into the world's narrowest dungeon. As for Netanyahu, the architect of this violence, we kill civilians by mistake. We all know that this means nothing more than being an open lie, but mocking mankind's intelligence, intelligence, and conscience. Because 99 percent of the people Israel had slaughtered since the day of the establishment were already civilians. It is now a sacred duty for Israel to destroy every living thing on the other side, not even to go into a separation of the so-called sacred texts of the Palestinians, described as the enemy, the civilian, the young, the old, the woman, the man, the human animal, or even the plant. Therefore, no matter what anyone says, the greatest danger to mankind today is the danger of Zionism, which draws blood out of its holy book against the other, and vomits it into its heart. I don't think anyone in the world, especially the Middle East, has the luxury of ignoring this danger or waiting for tomorrow to face it. Another fact that the last half-century of time has clearly shown, dear friends, is that the fate of world humanity, especially the oppressed people, can no longer be ignored by the fact that the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, who have veto rights, are now condemned to self-centered images. The world must question that. Even to pronounce the concepts of equality, justice, freedom and mercy in international relations, the pioneers of modern diplomacy, based on irrationality, should not be forgotten that these forces are also the greatest arms dealers in the world. Unless this contradiction is resolved, blood will not stop in the world of the oppressed, nor will corruption cease, nor will the cry stop. So, there is one truth that everyone, especially the oppressed people of this world, must remember: it is the most fundamental human and moral obligation to cry out for justice, all of humanity, until there are major changes in the world order established by the victors of the wars that have killed tens of millions of people in the last century. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0055par0528	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0056par0529	I want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0055par0530	We've got a roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0057par0531	Mr. President, at the beginning of the speech, the speaker accused us of blindness by saying that he had done a lot about the academics, that we had not seen them. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0055par0532	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0057par0535	Thank you. Dear friends, the orator who was just now, naturally, rightly condemned Israel, we all condemn it. I support this speech from the valued witness, and I would like to express that the party of the valued veteran should do the same. I told you here yesterday, you will stop trading with Israel, you will shut down the base in Malatya, which has identified the coordinates of Israel's missile attack, and you will cut off the oil line from Kerkuk, which goes to Israel, and then you will speak. Dear friends, in addition to rightly condemning a fellow professor and your esteemed minister, Israel, I will be here to taunt him -- not enough time -- please promise him without taunting him, Mr. President, and as an academic here as our proposal, let him tell us what his party has done with the academics today; in the last decade only six percent of the academics have received a raise, and let him come here to reason for this. Please tell him why the academics in Turkey receive 2.3 times less than India, why the academics in Turkey receive 2.5 times less than the academics in South Africa -- and I don't compare it to the Americans or anything -- don't get me wrong, I'm comparing it to those who are economically lower than Turkey -- and I'm taunting him, please tell him about them from here. As a professor, as an academic, he'll say, "Yes, the academics are getting enough money, don't ask for more." He'll come as an academic, please tell him that. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0058par0543	I'd like to put the nationalist movement group's proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0059par0546	Roll call...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit01spe0058par0547	There's a request for roll call. Let's get started... Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Öğün, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Ekyidoğan, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Pine, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Bilgehan, Mr. Serter, Mr. Oran, Mr. Young, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Captain, Mr. Land. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Mr. Abdulkadir Aksu? Mr. Şükrü Erdinç? There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0058par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 117th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Before the nationalist Action Group's proposal was voted, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I'd like to put the nationalist movement group's proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting Wednesday (16/07/2014), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Manisa MP Hasan Ören and 19 lawmakers have issued a parliamentary research motion (1347 rows) issued by the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey on 30/04/2014 to investigate the economic and social size of the credit card debt and determine the measures needed to be taken so that credit card debt can be paid in the long term. lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in Wednesday's 16/07/2014 jointly and to be held in the same dated combination of their talks. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr. Hasan Ören, MP of Manisa. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0060par0026	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's group proposal. Today is the 64th day of our 301 workers who lost their lives in Soma. I offer my condolences again to the families of those who lost their lives on such a blessed day, and I ask God for patience. I wish our 301 martyrs mercy, their place in heaven. My dear friends will work until morning, on the basis of your insistence, for fifteen days, perhaps even the holiday, on the basis of your insistence, concerning the law, which began with the bag of laws, 61 articles, and reached 149, with regard to Articles 148+1 today. We don't run from work at all, we work until the morning, but when I get to this stand, I always say, if you say, "Torba, there are good laws in favor of the people in the law." If you say, "Open this Parliament channel, let's not say "Alo Conquer," let's not say, "Let's not argue over the things that are not in favor of the people," let's give people an opportunity to follow the things that are not in favor of the people, but you know that we have a culture, we don't lie down, we have a habit, we don't lie down, we don't lie down, we don't lie down." Mr. Prime Minister said that my industrialist couldn't take money with this much interest, he can't use it, he can't use it, he can't use it, he can't take it down. How can interest be 30 percent on credit cards when interest is 8.75 in Turkey? Is it possible for credit cards to be at a rate of 25 per cent and 30 per cent of normal interest? You're going to think about paying the worker, the pensioner, the low-income shopkeeper, the artist at 8.75, but you're going to get 30 percent interest on the credit card he's using, inflation plus 2 points on the pensioner's salary, which is a 3.5-percent increase, which is a pensioner, who's going to pay 30 percent when he uses his credit card. Is there a balance in that? Is there a benefit in that for these people? Now let's see: The number of people who can't pay their credit card debt now is 1,88,000. That's just the number of people who didn't pay full credit cards. The number of people who didn't pay the Ferdi credit card debt is 1 million 307,000. When you add them up, 3 million 165,000 of our citizens are bankrupt about the credit cards they're currently using. Some have made a commitment, felic palsy escapes to avoid jail, while others have broken home order, family lives have been corrupted. Is he staying with this? No. Nine million people in this country are too busy paying the minimum amount of credit cards. I mean, you've broken the peace, trust of 12 to 13 million people in the country. What did you say to people? Is there anything wrong with you if 13 million people can't find peace in their credit card sinks and can't maintain a peaceful life with their children? Look, guys, in 2011, the number of people who couldn't pay their credit cards was 231. In 2014, right now, the number of people who can't pay their credit cards has reached 252,000 in three months, so if you think about it by the end of the year, 600,000 people can't pay their credit cards. So -- the law is coming -- now that the bag of laws has arrived, isn't it in the hands of the House to make an arrangement about them? You know, you can't pay support to farmers who owe electricity by the Council of Ministers on Electrical Administrations you have privatised without paying off their debt to the private sector. If you are setting up the rules, this Parliament must also make the necessary arrangement for credit cards. Wasn't it you in 2008-09 that Turkish money in the country was now equal to the money outside, not to lose value? Whether it's Swiss or Japanese new, go with confidence, knock on the door of the bank, get a mortgage, take it with Swiss francs. Well, in January 2008, 1 Turkish lira was equal to 1 Swiss franc. Japan was $1.39 in January 2008, now $2.6 in 2014. My dear friends, is it possible that these people, who you've raised their salary by 3.5 to 4 percent, are now able to pay their mortgages? What do they expect? Is there anything more natural to them than Parliament, to live in peace in Turkey, to hope that their family lives in Turkey will become more stable, than the people they choose? We've brought all sorts of pardons into this. Is it done right? Most of them were done right. If the economy had been right, as you say in the country, there was no need for BUG-KUR forgiveness, there was no need for tax forgiveness, there was no need for forgiveness for students, but there was such an economic crisis in Turkey that you lent people beyond their earnings. Now that people have reached the point of obstruction, they can't afford to pay these debts, they're looking for help from this Parliament on these debts. If we add one more item to 149 articles, erase the bank's interest on credit cards, attorney's fees, all but the principal money, and make the necessary deadline for this, we have the means to restore the peace, the peace of at least 15 million people in Turkey. On this blessed day, if you are the representative of these people -- and I believe you are -- we have to solve the problem of these people, 15 million people. Dear friends, there's not going to be a dollar in the bank's pockets. We started an asset company, you know, four assets. The banks pack up the money they can't collect and give it to the assets. A million-dollar package is given to the asset company for $80,000. They run assets, phones, you owe credit card debt. Come, pay half, pay two-thirds, and let us lift it up. The bank's writing him down on his balance sheet. Well, then, if this money is coming out of the government, let the House help 15 million people with that, let's make the arrangement necessary to improve the life of 15 million people on this blessed day. I'm leaving it up to this House to re-open a white page about the problems they've suffered so far about their credit card use. I believe you'll support the Republican People's Party's group proposal. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0061par0040	Thank you, Mr. Kören. The Republican People's Party Group's motion against Mr. Hussein Şahin. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0062par0044	Mr. President, my fellow public defenders, I salute you all. About 25 days from now, hopefully, for the first time in the Republic of Turkey, our nation will elect the President directly with its own votes. I already wish this election would bring blessings and good luck to our nation, our government. Again, on this blessed day of Ramadan, in Palestine, Gaza, to innocent children, to innocent mothers, to the tyranny of the state of Israel, to which I strongly condemn this persecution, which the state of Israel has inflicted on them, to whom it has committed, in the face of innocent, unguarded, defenseless people. Dear friends, there's a motion the Republican People's Party has made in the case of a Parliamentary report, which calls the victim's credit card "The victims." Our very dear congressman friend, our brother Hasan Ören Bey, who had been on the stand before me, had given us the numbers of people who didn't pay their credit card debt at 1,88,000, but in the motions he had made, they said 1,650,000. Those who owed Ferdi's loans also said there were people who didn't pay more than 1,300,000, but in his motion, they said that the number was 1.190,000. We all have to understand this once: credit card or credit card.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0063par0048	Look at the date of the motion, the correct numbers on the date of the motion.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0062par0049	I'm saying you're renovating, Mr. Hasan. When credit card or credit cards are given to institutions or to taxpayers by banks or lenders, they are given back to them in return. So when an institution gives you a bank credit card, it gives you a limit, and within that limit, you, in fact, this credit card is an electronic plastic tool designed to help you pay, so it makes your payments easier and it gives you a fluidity, but the way that our society uses a credit card has turned into a credit card form, and, in particular, the way that we've made it last edited, the way that loan cards are delivered in Law 5464, before banks are able to arrange the way that credit cards are delivered on the streets. You know, we blocked it with an arrangement, and without asking for a credit card, signing a credit card form, seeing the credit card contract, reading it, I demand a credit card card or a credit card card card card card card. Without a statement, we stopped banks from giving the credit card to citizens. Therefore, if our citizen who demands credit card has to declare his income to the bank that determines the limit of his credit card, the more his income, the more the bank has to give him a limit, and without a request, he can't give him a credit card because he shouldn't. Especially in that last furya, with a lot of credit cards distributed to everyone, maybe he's created a coaster that prepares that cause. But we know very well that banks fight their debt to the end in collecting the debt due to credit card or federal loans, that they show them the necessary conveniences, that they go to interest reductions, that they set up deadlines, that they don't get from this point forward, that they transfer money to the asset management company. The amount passed on to the asset management company, as you say, are generally unrefunded, hard-earned citizens, and many of them are unreachable due to this collection challenge, so they are credit card users, and they are difficult to collect from the asset management company, and most of them are not. So there's a number here, and because he's going to get $50 million, he's going to transfer it to property management for $8-10 million. So, after this eight to ten million liras -- it seems to be almost 40 million dollars in profit from the motion here.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0064par0052	What's 42? Where does the bank write 42?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0062par0053	Look, right here, right now, I'm going to give you some technical information that banks have to reciprocalize at the end of a year because they're going to get the following credit card. The amount is recorded as income after the exchange, when any collections take place. If we look at it in terms of corporate tax, for example, for example, for a $50 million follow-up, at the end of a year, we have $50 million down from the corporate tax. Right, that's true in terms of tax exception. Later, when the collection of $10 million is taken into account, the amount is added to the tax of $10 million.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0064par0054	What's the harm in the bank, the bank? The treasure pays that money, you...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0062par0055	When he gives the loan, when he can't collect it, you know, in terms of companies, he dumps it on suspects, and when the unsub can't collect what he's owed, it's off the corporate tax. And since the bank is a corporate personality, if it can't collect it, what it can't collect, what it can't collect, it's perfectly normal for it to fall directly from taxes, directly from the matrix, there's nothing illegal about it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0064par0056	The same thing we do in taxes, let's start fresh, let's do it there.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0062par0057	The majority of the files passed on to the asset management company are unreachable; the ability to collect is very low, close to the process of receiving the helpless headset. Before the turn of the century, banks provide a lot of ease to debtors who are willing to pay, which I just mentioned. The asset is equally low, due to the low collection ability to receive the return rate to the management companies. Precious friends are not allowed to charge interest on credit card purchases, either, so when credit card falls on interest rates, interest can't be operated again, and it can be monitored within three months. Therefore, the claim that interest is too high cannot reflect the fact that it is true.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0065par0059	Why is the Prime Minister shouting "insirine"?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0062par0060	A credit card is a special occasion. See, the contract that you signed when you got your credit card states that the ratios or factors that will apply to you are there. It is not entirely true, as we explained above, that citizens will easily repay the remaining debt when interest and fees outside the principal money are expunged. There are conditions and limits of overdue payments to banks and assets management companies that are regulated by legislation. For the collection of people who will be on the circuit, the banks will first investigate all necessary questions. It is known that when the asset management companies receive the debt in the process of monitoring, it is also easy to pay. Dear friends, as you know, there are legal regulations on the agenda of our Parliament that include the Law on Business and Law on Law and Law on Law, which our nation expects us to get out of as soon as possible. There are also very constructive regulations concerning our contractors, our subcontractors, our subcontractors; there are issues related to tax, Social Security Institution and the restructuring of incomes that were lost in an accident. It is expected that this bill, which our nation is insisting on, will be passed immediately, will be enforced by our nation. In the opinion that this bill is more essential, that we all agree that it should be passed immediately, I would say that we disagree with the Republican People's Party's Party's proposal, and I would respectfully salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0066par0064	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0067par0065	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0066par0066	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0067par0067	Mr. President, the speaker said that these assets are tax-free. So if it's being handed over to $5, the asset company needs to do an executive follow-up on $5.00. He doesn't pursue executions over $5, and the main 20 grand collects the entire 20 grand. So here, the asset company is getting richer and richer without cause, and the citizen's getting poorer.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0066par0068	I get it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0067par0069	That's wrong information. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0066par0071	In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0068par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge in favour of the Republican People's Party's research proposal regarding the problem of credit and credit cards. I salute you all. Dear friends, this is a serious problem. We've discussed it on different occasions before, and we've passed it on to you. Mr. Hawk just linked the bag to the law and said he had to leave immediately. Unfortunately, there's no regulation in it, there's other sections involved. Besides, it's not just an economic problem. The problem with people who can't pay their credit and credit cards is now a social problem. There's been problems with families, there's disintegration, there's domestic violence, there's a lot of effects. But, of course, how did we get to this point, is it just a citizen who's closing his credit card debt with a credit card and a credit card with another credit card? No. When we look at it, the general policy of the Justice and Development Party has already been paid by debt. So every time the Prime Minister and our friends talk here, they say, "Where are you from?" So what we're looking at is, in 2002 -- let's start with the 2002 you're saying -- is that we're looking at a total debt of 224 billion dollars, and we're looking at the total debt of Turkey, based on 570 billion, as of the first quarter. I'll tell you the others, you have loved ones, don't worry. Now, but there's one thing that's remarkable. The private sector's debt went from 43 billion to 265 billion dollars. There's such a relief that they say, "What if my brother, the private sector's debt, is nothing?" So, how would the citizen who took him get what he's getting in return for it, is his income increasing, are these companies profiting or harming?"
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0069par0079	Do you think they'll give it to you if they don't?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0068par0080	Will they give you the money if you don't give it to them?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0069par0081	How do they give it to you?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0068par0082	Because now that you've given it to the citizen... the banks are doing it like this, they've found a new way. He says, "Mr. Barber, you have this debt, you have this debt. For a new loan, you're normally out of credit, so what do we do? The bride says, "How much is all of it?" They say, "We'll give you a new loan of $80,000, pay you this 60 thousand, and you'll get the same thing you need with 20. Now, if you remember, I told Mr. President of the BDDK to look into it. Now, folks, this is a serious problem. So the debt of the state and the debt of the citizen and the debt of the private sector are increasing. Now, if it doesn't make a difference, you'd say, "Well, 500 companies of ISO have been announced, one-quarter loss." I mean, look, here are the numbers for 2013. From the first 500 companies last year...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0069par0084	It's a courtship difference, isn't it?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0068par0085	I'm telling you now, you said, "What harm does it do?" Now, we can't do his balance sheet analysis here in ten minutes, Mr. Barber. I'm just saying that this is the number of companies that have gone up, that have lost a lot of money over the last year. Now, if the first 500 companies are at risk, what are the smaller companies going to do? Dear friends, when we look at it, on the one hand, the Prime Minister says, "Let the interest fall." To show off, Mr. Hawk just said, "The interest is not high." But the result is our citizen is a victim. The result of what? It's due to the low rate interest you've been using for years. Look, what the Prime Minister calls a tranche, what he calls a "lobi," is that it's up 45 percent, and if you look at its total income, it's up 3-4 per cent, total income growth of that year. Although Mr. Prime Minister said that the five-story income increase in our time came today. He confessed himself, which means five times normal... he meant the interest lobby, you know, last year, after the travel events. Now, what's important here is that the citizen's debt is far worse than that, dear friends. Again, I'll tell you again, where from? Let's say in 2002, the citizen's loan is 1.9; let's say 2. So 2, you're looking at 2 billion by 2 billion, all of a sudden, in 2014, in March 252, in April, a little bit more in May, and it's up by 127 times, and it's 127 times the citizens' debt. What is this? You're looking at a credit card, a credit card debt of 4.3 billion in 2002, now up to 79-80 billion in March. So the loan and credit card debt of a citizen with a total of 6.3 billion in total is 331/e in March and 343/e in May... but the debt of 55 times the debt of the citizens has increased, 55 times in ten years. Do you know what that means?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0070par0089	The house must have taken it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0071par0090	They pay loans.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0068par0091	I'm coming, I'm coming, I'm buying a house, there's a mortgage. Mr. Domach, is that where it came from? Here's a citizen buying the house, borrowing it, mortgaged it, but he can't pay the loan. Look at the number of people who couldn't pay, on the one hand, dear friends, in the first four months up to 523,556 people.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0072par0093	Give me the ratio, the ratio.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0068par0094	I'll tell you. If you think there are 911,000 people in all 2013, this year will be nearly twice as many as last year; 1.5 times as many. In total, 900,000 people in the last four months have not been able to pay 523,000 in the first four months.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0073par0096	It'll fall off later.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0068par0097	I've just given you the numbers, I've given you the totals. Don't worry, the numbers of the BDDK, the numbers of the Central Bank. Now, this is the result of this: let's focus on the consumer economy, support consumer loans, give citizens mortgages, the economy looks alive. So, where's the export? Where's the import? How much do we import? That's what happens when you borrow money without raising the citizens' savings rate, without raising the citizens' income. I'll tell you that Mr. Domaç is curious. Look, dear friends, we're looking at a private savings rate as of the end of 2013, down from 25 per cent to 9.7 per cent. On the other hand, we're looking at the disposable rate of their obligations -- you want it, I'm giving it -- at 4.7% in 2002, it's 55 percent now -- more than half of the past expendable income is a citizen's debt. Look, I'll tell you again: 4.7% in 2002 is now 55.7%. On the contrary, you're looking at the savings rate -- it's invisible from here -- but the screen is only visible, you can only see it, if you want -- and there's a problem here, the savings rate of the household from 25 percent to 9.7%. So there's a social problem here, dear friends, and there's no way we can ignore it. The citizen, as of 2003 -- look, I'll tell you by your year -- had 156 billion assets, and he owed only 8 billion. So it's 5.1 percent of its assets, if we go through total assets, financial assets. What happened in 2014? There are 730 billion assets, increased, the debt has increased to 371 billion. Do you know how many? There's 51% here. So it's going from 5.1 per cent to 51 per cent. Yeah, we're saying the citizen's in debt. We're saying that there are economic, social reasons, that we need to investigate them. Well, Mr. Barber just told me, thanks to him, he's interested. In the meantime, I got another list, Mr. President, over 300 people, and we still have a citizen who can't pay for the exchanges. Citizen victim. We have to figure it out somehow. Thank you, Aslanoglu and I have taken the initiative -- we will see each other again tomorrow -- but we are trying to resolve it without making legal arrangements, but the citizen is a victim. He's coming, his list's here, there's still a problem. Dear friends, on the other hand, not just banks who can't collect what they're getting. You know, when Mr. Prime Minister was nominated, he announced his assets. There was one in 2011, and it still looks like he's getting $500,000, but we don't know who it's from. So no one can pay their debts. In fact, we told our friends here, you've done a lot of, uh, purchase reconstructions. In the meantime, you can sort out what the Prime Minister is getting. Besides, he didn't have a house, so our friends here told me. And what the Prime Minister hasn't received here in three years -- so the economy of the citizen is not good, which he can't pay -- is that you can actually add one in the bag to his collection, and we've shown him the way, and it's all added up here anyway. Dear friends, this matter must be really investigated. Mr. Prime Minister will solve the problem one way, find it another way, but our citizen is in a very strange situation, in a gureba situation; social impacts, divorces, domestic fights, suicides. So, he says, let's look into this problem from the top and find their solution together, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0074par0107	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Republican People's Party Group proposal against Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0075par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party, I salute you all. We've been promised against the law. This is the Civil Code, God is great, we will change it. What do you mean, against? Can't you talk about it? Look, when I first came to the House, my first law proposals were about these credit card rates, people, because the day I came in -- we came in in the 2007 elections, and, you know, the beginning year of that big world crisis 2008 -- we gave them these, and then we explained how banks were paying interest, and how they were doing wrong. And then we made a lot of research proposals, and we talked about it here, and there were a couple of adjustments here, and we explained it, but we just can't solve this problem. There are forces that don't want us to solve this problem. Who are these powers? I'm asking: interest lobby? I'd like the ruling party to talk about the interest lobby here. Is that what the interest lobby does? But I'd like to remind you of a few facts after a few numbers. Look, it's very close data. When you look at these data, the number of real people who didn't pay the individual loan debt in 2009 is 165.309 in 2010; 108 in 2010; 150,000 in 2011; 280,000 in 2012; 280,000 in 2013; 397 in 2013; and a very important acceleration, I'll point out, right now, as of 2014, 265,294 in total. Imagine that the total number of people who have not paid their debt is 3,183,000 people, and when you gather them with their families, 20 million citizens are deeply concerned. Friends, in such a large amount, I want to tell you that the current amount of debt in Turkey is 343 billion liras in individual loans, greater than Turkey's budget. In every family, there's a credit card, an additional credit card, and recently watch consumer associations, family divorces, fights, a lot of criminal cases, suicides, unfortunately, that's due to loans. Imagine a minimum waged worker, 800 lira net... in the second minimum payment when he can't pay with that credit card... which is automatically stopped by law when he doesn't pay three minimums. It's been unlimited before, it's connected to a limit, as a result of an acquish to the European Union. Now I'm asking you... $343 billion in debt, 20 million of citizens living below the poverty line. Think about the officer's rent, electricity, natural gas, think about the phone bill, think about the gas, think about the taxes that reach 70 percent of natural gas, and 37 percent of the 49 banks in Turkey have foreigners' shares, friends, 37. Who would kidnap such an oily country, a country to exploit so easily? Dear friends, their shares exceed 42 per cent of foreign capital in banks. They say it's the effect of high growth, but don't look. Look at the most profitable institutions at the end of the year, the banks take the first 18 places, folks. I want to tell you where he gets it from. Now, if I were to say that the increase in regulations on these credit card loans is 7.8 per cent, the disaster of this number will occur again, friends, and unfortunately, loans with the largest active pen as of May will increase by 4.3 per cent to 1 trillion, 92 billion, 818 million euros, and the real estate will increase by 2.1 per cent to 292 billion, which will increase 78%. So the industry, the banks alone, has a net profit of $10 billion. Now, let me read to you the recent statements, new, two days ago: 344,000 people in 2013 who have failed to pay, who have failed to pay. In the first five months of 2014, the number of individuals who did not pay their individual loans increased to 225 thousand. Watch out, the numbers are flying, the numbers are signalling danger. I'm not talking about the signals of The Economist or something in England, the dangers of economic magazine. I'd like to be a little hard on you with the words of your presidential candidate. Hey, power, we're gonna talk bag law today, this big bag. You've pardoned me 19 times. You put insurance premiums, taxes, fines, administrations, irregularities, whatever, pen-to-tips, and you consolidate all of the government's debts. Well, isn't it a responsibility for this state to have a moral responsibility, human responsibility, legal responsibility, to rule over the loss of property, the loss of a home, the loss of a home, the loss of a job, the loss of a bank credit card interest, or the position of those who owe a loan in exchange for foreign currency? I'd like to address you, distinguished lawmakers of the mastery cabinet, with the words of your president here at the iftar table.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0076par0122	He's running for president.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0075par0123	He's running for president. There's a lobby that's hot with extracurricular revenues. Says the Prime Minister, the presidential candidate. He points out that some banks gain 600 trillion non-interest revenues per year over a credit card, and he tells citizens: "Don't buy credit cards." And then, he says that the world is talking about a different Turkey with interest-free incomes, and the interest lobby doesn't want a strong Turkey, he says: I haven't recently said that in vain, because I know something. There's a lobby that's hot with extracurricular revenues. You know those credit cards, they say, "Don't take them." Don't give me that! Can you tell me, for God's sake, if it's going to work out with you guys? Don't take the credit card... you shouldn't take it. Is there a congressman with no credit card in his pocket? Which one of you guys is walking around with cash in Europe, here and there? The credit card was used in the first U.S. before the 1900s. Its use in Turkey is only 20 years old, 30 years old. You know Diners credit cards, they're new, but the world's been using credit cards for 200 years. But there's no other country in the world that uses credit cards and is brutally victimized, cruelly robbed, cruelly collecting $100 from a penny. Here are the samples, I removed the receipts from this chair. The bank sends out a loan for a penny, for a penny, and a penny is 504 lira, my friends. Can you imagine, an A4 is a penny, fellas, 1 A4? Think about the gas of a lawyer, a bank officer going to a courthouse, think about his full money, let him go, let him go, his legal fees, whatever... he collects a bank charge for a dollar, not 500 times the fine for a citizen, but 500,000 times the fine, if the government can't get him, he's a partner in the interest lobby. Look, my friends, not only that, but for a two-cent loan, a citizen living in Germany has been loaned $1476. It's possible to replicate this, my friends. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Are you against this cruelty or not? If you do, you'll say yes to this research proposal. We say yes.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0077par0129	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0078par0132	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0077par0133	Before the Republican People's Party Group puts its proposal to a vote, there is a request for roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Sun, Mr. Pine, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Young, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Köse, Mr. Light, Mr. Elector, Mr. Specular, Mr. Chelebi. I'll give you two minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Kars MP Yunus Kılıç and Amassian MP Avni Erdemir and 79 MPs who are ranked in the 3rd ranking position of President of the Health Institutes of Turkey and the Constitutional Proposal and Health, Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We now resume the talks of 108 Law Proposals and Plans and Budget Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 4th place, as well as the Constitutional Charter of the Law and Law. Commission? Here. Government? Here. According to Article 91 of the Civil Code yesterday, a motion was made for the withdrawal of Act No. 2/399 from the Commission Report 639, which was adopted as a basic law under Article 91, and I will make it read and submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu and Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu, in the report 639 rows, are withdrawing our proposal for the law. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, we begin negotiations on the entire bill.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0079par0172	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0077par0173	Sir?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0079par0174	The General Assembly has refused to renegotiate my proposal. They want to negotiate. So in this proposal, I'd like to have the Commissioner present information on the matter of which my legal proposal will be discussed. I mean, I've been instructed by the General Assembly to consider this proposal. In that case, the Commissioner must state where the General Assembly's will lies in this report so that this meeting can be held.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0080par0175	It's just in the title, it's not in it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0081par0176	It's in the title, the title.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0082par0177	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0083par0178	So the General Assembly's will... thank you, and you've asked that this offer be discussed. In that case, we need to discuss our proposal, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0084par0179	I don't understand when everyone talks like that at the same time.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0083par0180	Yes, it should be.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0085par0181	Mr. President, his proposal is already in the current bill.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0083par0182	Where, where?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0085par0183	It's been taken into consideration by the commission, taken into consideration, assessed. Evaluation doesn't necessarily mean acceptance, Mr. President. So it's in the report we're seeing now, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0083par0184	Doesn't mean he'll be accepted. Ben, see where he is and decide if you'll accept...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0085par0185	Sir, you'll look at them, you'll look at them.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0083par0186	Didn't you say it was an offer?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0086par0187	It's in the report.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0087par0188	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0088par0189	Yeah, the group vice presidents, don't talk to each other, they're giving you information. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0087par0193	Mr. President, from the proposals and proposals on our agenda, we've been able to combine 108 proposals that are similar to these proposals and proposals, including substances similar to those in similar materials and similar laws. In these proposals -- after this merger was made -- the bidders were informed of this, and after these proposals were merged, specifically, the substance in this proposal was taken or not taken. There is no way to say anything about it, but as I said... In addition, the unification of this proposal does not necessarily require that a clause be removed and put into this Plan Budget Commission text. We also think that if you want our opinion as a Commission, the idea that you should be opposed to this unification here, or that this proposal should be withdrawn from the merger, not in the General Assembly phase, but in the process of negotiations at Plan Budget Commission. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0089par0197	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0090par0198	Mr. President, now, sir, I don't think the Commissioner's statement is sufficient. I'd also like to ask him a question: Mr. Oktay Vural's offer to withdraw...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0091par0199	He doesn't have to answer, actually. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0090par0200	What was he organizing, and you said that? In fact, if you could give me any information on that...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0092par0201	He doesn't know.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0093par0202	Mr. President, this is not the place to discuss them, it's the Commission...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0094par0203	Let Mr. Hamzacebi finish it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0093par0204	Mr. President, there's no such thing as a procedure.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0095par0205	Mr. Canikli, one moment, sir...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0093par0206	That's what the commission needs to discuss, sir. It's all in the report.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0095par0207	Mr. President, is there such a procedure, sir?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0093par0208	He's in charge of the commission's agenda, he's discussed all the issues he's come up with, and he's made his decision, Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0095par0209	Mr. President, I'm conducting the conversation, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0096par0210	I'm listening to you, too.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0093par0211	I mean, you don't use that kind of method to prevent, delay. There is no such procedure in accordance with the Civil Code, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0097par0212	Who's the veteran on the outside? He's a veteran on the outside, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0096par0213	Well, I'll go down and tidy up, shall I, Mr. Okan?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0098par0214	The Vice President of the Justice and Development Party Group...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0096par0215	Everyone's got a mind-meld and a criminal license, as far as I know, lawmakers. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0098par0217	Mr. President, when a group of vice presidents is standing, the ruling party's vice president has no right to interrupt his speech and stop him from speaking.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0099par0218	I'm addressing the President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0098par0219	The majority behind you do not give you the right to interfere with the word of the main opposition's group deputy, please, I beg you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0099par0220	Does it give you the right to trample on the Civil Code? I mean, can that happen, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0098par0222	But you still have the same attitude.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0099par0223	Is that even possible? You're saying the wrong thing.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0098par0224	He's still got the same attitude. Every time you guys talk here, I listen to you. I don't even think you're standing there talking to...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0100par0226	Mr. Hamzacebi, yes, I'm listening.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0098par0227	Mr. President, let me finish my speech.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0100par0228	I'm listening to you, too. I didn't tell you anything else, Mr. Hamzacebi, I'm listening to you. I said, let me finish my speech. You're scolding me.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0101par0229	He's got nothing to say.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0098par0230	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0102par0231	It's not about saying anything, Mr. President, it's not about saying anything, it's about not saying anything.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0103par0232	He's got nothing to say.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0104par0233	I said I'm listening.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0105par0234	Mr. President, if there's constant interference while I'm talking, I don't have a chance to talk.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0104par0235	Yes, he's sitting down now, and I'm telling you: I'm listening to you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0105par0236	But look, I'm gonna keep talking, and you're interrupting again, Mr. President, please, please.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0106par0237	He says, "How do I extend the game?"
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0104par0238	Now, no matter how strong or how strong, there's no doubt about it, there's no doubt about it. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) You're listening, Mr. President, I'm listening.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0105par0239	Mr. Akshener, I have nothing to say to you. I don't see the need to tell you anything. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0104par0241	Okay.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0107par0242	Mr. President, now, sir, the General Assembly has requested that my proposal be discussed.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0108par0243	He didn't ask for that.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0107par0244	Yeah. I take it back. I mean, that's my law proposal, which means it's been accepted.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0109par0245	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0107par0246	I mean, it wasn't rejected, it was discussed, and I'm just saying, where does the General Assembly's will to discuss this proposal in this report?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0110par0247	Search and find.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0107par0248	Where? So, the General Assembly says, can you meet this proposal... now, when he gets the bill back? You can't. If the bill wasn't rescinded, if it was rejected, you'd be in touch. And I'm saying that my law proposal needs to be discussed. In this matter, I would like to invite the General Assembly to state where my proposal of this law is placed in this number of rows.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0111par0249	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0112par0250	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0111par0251	That's all he said.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0113par0252	The General Assembly says: "Friend, I want to discuss this law proposal."
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0111par0253	That's all he said.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0113par0254	Nurettin Bey and the Justice and Development Party say that this matter is true, this offer is true, and we will accept your will.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0111par0255	Okay, Mr. President said the same thing.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0114par0256	Here, Mr. President, it's all here, it'll be taken care of. If it does, or the Commission doesn't accept it, it's that simple.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0115par0257	Mr. President, I'm starting a discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0111par0258	Okay, all right, let's open it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0115par0259	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0116par0260	Sir, it's against you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0117par0261	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0118par0262	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0119par0263	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0120par0264	I'm opening the discussion of the procedure, it's requested, I'm opening it, it's done. I'm reading now: Mr. Günal in Polish, Mr. Canikli; against Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Kaplan. Did I get it right?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0121par0266	That's not true.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0122par0267	Against Mr. Vural. He wanted it first, then I wanted it in favor.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0120par0268	Then I didn't see him, when I saw you. Okay, fine.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0122par0269	I wanted it in favor, Mr. Vural asked for it first.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0120par0270	No, I haven't seen you since I saw you. Well, then, Mr. Kaplan, I'm sorry Mr. Vural asked before you... or I'll draw lots.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0123par0272	There's one person in each group talking, so bring in the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0124par0273	Bring in the transcripts, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0120par0274	I didn't see what Mr. Vural wanted against you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0125par0275	Sir, he asked for it in the first place, and I said it in the first place.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0120par0276	I'm not objecting!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0126par0277	We object.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0120par0278	I just said I didn't hear it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0127par0279	Well, okay.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0120par0280	Now, I said I didn't see it, I didn't hear it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0128par0281	We object.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0120par0282	Now, I made Mr. Kaplan an offer, he said no. So I'm going to look at the transcripts and I'm going to make a commitment.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0129par0283	That's right, sir, that's right.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0130par0284	Let's take a break.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0129par0285	Look at the records, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0131par0286	In an argument like this, a group has to have a say in it, which they have their own proposals.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0132par0287	Anyway, I mean, I don't know about that, amongst yourselves.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0131par0288	I mean, we're either gonna play nice or we're gonna draw straws every time. We're ready to draw lots until the feast of sacrifice, my friends, you know.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0132par0289	I've been with as many political parties as possible.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0131par0290	I warn you of three parties from here: by God, we will bring you all the way to the feast of sacrifice.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0133par0291	We defend the speech of each group.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0131par0292	It's either a gentleman's act or a group's right to...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0134par0293	Yeah, well, we're here.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0135par0294	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0131par0295	I mean, for him, you know, we'll draw lots until the feast of sacrifice.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0134par0296	You'll tell there, there, not us, there.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0136par0297	Give it your best shot!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0131par0298	If it's gentlemanly, every group has a say.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0136par0299	For God's sake, we're doing it. I'll come, I'll do...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit02spe0137par0300	I'm gonna take a ten-minute break from the merger, take a look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0137par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 117th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The Commission and the Government are here. We had a formal debate. I've looked at the reports, so in favor of Mr. Günal, Mr. Canikli; against Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Vural appears. The first word is Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0138par0008	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0139par0009	Wasn't he in favor first, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0140par0010	Isn't it in your favor, Mr. President? Mr. President, aren't those who speak in favor first, sir?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0141par0011	Sir?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0140par0012	I mean, isn't it the procedure, sir, that the first to speak in favor is to take the stand?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0141par0013	All right, then, I said I was confused. Here, I'll take you in favor, Mr. Günal. I'm so sorry, General Assembly. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0142par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, of course, I made a promise in favour of Mr. President because Mr. President has nothing to do with all the blame in the AKP Group and Mr. Canikli is already under constant attack for him.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0143par0021	Who did we attack, where did we attack?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0144par0022	Who did we attack?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0142par0023	Look, it says here, I'll withdraw the law's offer.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0144par0024	You don't want us to say our point of view? Is that all right, Mr. Mehmet?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0142par0025	Yeah, yeah, you can't even stand to talk. In the event of an attack, in the case of an attack...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0144par0026	Who did we attack there?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0142par0027	Look, you're under attack right now. There's a pattern error here.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0144par0028	We're not attacking anyone.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0145par0029	You're the one who...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0142par0030	The Speaker wrote it here. Look, the Speaker wrote it here, and the Speaker made it up? Now he's making it up, where does he write it?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0145par0031	Look at the language!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0142par0032	All the opposition parties sent their objections to the Speaker, said it didn't go according to the Civil Code, and I went to him, including myself, and I explained to him verbally, that it couldn't be this way, that the law couldn't be passed. Dear friends, there are eight other items that the Speaker has not included, in addition to the list of decisions made by the Speaker of Parliament, which the Speaker of Parliament said. Again, there's another proposal, which has been illegally merged against the Civil Code, which has eight separate regulations, which should not be included in the same bill, since we have started negotiations in the four-period period. This is all against the Civil Code. And then you say, "Why are we attacking?" Then why are you attacking? We said, "Let's take these out, and let's take them out the next day. Let's take them out the next day." Mr. President, is there a recommendation from the Soma Commission here? He's here. We've submitted it as a motion, and just like here, did you reject it with a majority sanction? Yeah. The transcripts are in the middle. If what I said was wrong, Mr. Canikli, what did the Justice Commission discuss today? If you're right, why was that clause pulled out of our insistence, and today it's being discussed in the Justice Commission?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0145par0034	Because of your health.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0142par0035	What does CMK have to do with the Plan and Budget Commission? What's the Business Act got to do with it? What does that have to do with the lawyer's bandole fee, the attorney's attorney's license? All of this is against the Civil Code. Unfortunately, unfortunately, the Commission has overstepped its authority and has violated new provisions here despite our warnings. What should be done after the Parliament Speaker's warning, Mr. Berber, is to call us and discuss this report of the Speaker of Parliament here, the following articles are said to be... at least that you could have done the courtesy of voting with the majorityist force to bring it back here in shape -- but we've already discussed it -- but we've voted, but without our knowledge, Mr. Barber, they've written it down, signed it down, they've sent it back at the same time. For him, this bill is invalid, and this bill must not be discussed as it is. He says the reason for the debate is because of AKP's imposed attitude, and I thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0146par0037	Against Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0147par0040	Mr. President, in the ruling of the Justice and Development Party, if Turkey really is a state of law, as written in the Constitution, then how should law work be done in the state of law? The answer to the question can be learned by looking at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If law enforcement in the state of law is really what it is like in this House, then the state of law isn't a very good state at all, so we have to give up that state form right now! No, if we're actually implementing legislation that shouldn't be in the legal state of Turkey in the Grand National Assembly, then we have to give it up. Under the rule of the Justice and Development Party, Parliamentary Council has established a classic understanding of solving problems, both within parliament and in the country, based solely on the majority of parliament. This came as a 61. In fact, the reason why this law came, is because of the disaster that happened in the Soma mine, where it was brought to heal the victims' wounds, it was 61 articles, but Soma was drowned in this sack, everything but Soma went in here, filled up as she filled up, this sack was no longer able to carry this burden. And the valuable lawmakers, the method of lawmaking, they really don't fit in, they don't fit in, they don't fit in, so it's not true. The Justice and Development Party has a custom to resolve every problem it faces on the basis of its majority in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and it insists and persists in making sloppy legislation. They're not ashamed to change the laws they lifted in this House two months ago and declared as reform. They never blush. The proposal, which is the issue of this Charter and Budget Commission, which was discussed today in the Justice Commission, is the 153 (Preparation of the CMK), which limited the authority of the defendant to review the case, is brought here two months ago -- as a free understanding -- which is now being removed from that understanding; at its point, that clause is being reassembled. Guys, make up your mind if what you did two months ago is true or right now!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0148par0044	That's what we're talking about!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0147par0045	So you can't solve problems by filling in everything. In all matters that are not relevant, this is clearly contrary to the ruling that regulates the fundamental laws in Article 91 of the House of Parliament. Please don't do this here on the basis of the majority, as you've ruled Turkey while this Parliamentary Council is standing here. You're doing the same thing there, you're running judges, prosecutors, changing the law here, but the laws you've changed don't work... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] A month ago, you wanted to shape the Supreme Court here. There you go, you've lost the First President of the Supreme Court!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0149par0049	Thank you. Mr. Canikli, Alderman of Giresun at Lehte. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0150par0053	Dear friends, I salute you all. This isn't the first time we've ever made a law, this isn't the first time we've had a bag of law talks. So far, in commissions and Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly, law and bag laws, whatever method they've been discussed in, that's exactly how they've prepared it, and that's exactly how Turkey's Grand National Assembly came to the agenda of the General Assembly. I mean, it's like this is the first time that talks have been brought up in this bag of legislation, and it's the first time that the methods that haven't been discussed or proposed have been introduced, and for the first time, the methods that haven't been implemented are being discussed in this bag of legislation. None of this is true, my friends.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0151par0055	It was wrong yesterday, wrong today.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0150par0056	So far, the same way, one-on-one, every step of the commission, the level of the General Assembly, the way of the meeting, the way of the merging, all the stages are the same.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0152par0057	We have the same objection here.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0151par0058	It's all wrong.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0150par0059	...the numberless bag of legislation is now under law in this House.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0153par0060	Well, you keep doing it wrong.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0150par0061	This was prepared to reflect the will of the Plan and Budget Commission, and after long discussions, all its dimensions were discussed, evaluated, and ultimately the Commission made its decision, brought to the agenda of the Grand Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly. There is no difference in this sense; there is no violation of the Civil Code. We had already discussed the matter yesterday, considered it, and it was settled.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0154par0062	Is it proper, the Civil Code, or is there no discrepancy?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0150par0063	Now, dear friends, that's not the point. Look, the goal is obstruction, we know that. The opposition is trying to block this bill, trying to delay it, making all the effort they can. Look, this bill... you might not like some of it, so you can't have an approach that won't be legalized when you don't like it; that's the main imposed approach. You give your opinion, you give your opinion, you share it with the public, if you think it's wrong, you reveal it, but the result is discussed, and here comes the national will.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0154par0064	It's going wrong.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0150par0065	Dear friends, look, there are very important arrangements. Now, Soma is late every day, unable to connect with 67 of our brothers. It's because of the blocking attitude you're showing. Look, about our subcontractor brothers...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0155par0067	Bring it right, bring it right, let's get it out. Don't bring it wrong!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0150par0068	...it's the first time they've been reformed, they've been given a three-year contract, they've been granted severance, they've been granted pay leave, but you're blocking it, yes, and then you're blocking it, and all of our citizens need to know that.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0156par0070	Don't make any more excuses out of them!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0157par0071	It's not enough, it's not enough!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0156par0072	Don't take out anything else by using them as an excuse!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0158par0073	Look, I'm not talking about criticism, I'm not talking about opposition. You certainly try to stop the Civil Law by breaking it, and that's what you do, and that's all you do.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0159par0074	Mr. President, you're blocking it. Four weeks ago, this could have come out of the House.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0160par0075	Because of you!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0161par0076	Who's stopping you?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0159par0077	You brought it in a bag, bag!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0162par0078	I mean, if you're sincere about it and you've really supported the provisions of this law that solves a lot of problems, that actually solves problems, you don't do that. You do your criticism, you state your opinion, but then, after that, everybody does what they have to do. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0163par0081	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0164par0082	Do you launder money with this law, black money? Do you launder money? Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0165par0083	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0163par0084	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0164par0085	You'll launder the money...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0163par0086	Mr. Light, I don't hear Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0164par0087	But, Mr. President, let's face it, he's wrong.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0163par0088	Wrong, but I don't hear Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0166par0089	Mr. President, now, Mr. Secretary, the entire General Assembly has addressed the opposition. It says: "You are..."
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0163par0090	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0167par0091	Yes, and so do we, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0168par0092	Mr. President, you have our word...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0169par0093	Mr. President, in the same way, since we're considered opposition...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0170par0094	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0171par0097	The speech of the ruling party Deputy Director of the Group is truly an example. He says that the law has rights for the miners in Soma. You're obstructing those rights by obstructing them.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0172par0098	He's right.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0173par0099	Right, right.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0171par0100	I'm making you a suggestion: you put illegal regulations into this law by hiding behind the pain of our 301 miners.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0172par0101	That's just a word.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0171par0102	It's a matter of the state officials...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0172par0103	Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0171par0104	...in the event of his appeal to the court, you have placed a restraining order against the court's decision to stop the execution.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0174par0105	That's great!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0175par0106	You refuse, you refuse! Turn it down!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0171par0107	In case they win the court, you've placed a clause that prevents the annulment.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0175par0108	Is he not going to pass?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0171par0109	Five years after the court's cancellation decision due to privatisation practices, you put in a clause that would ensure that the cancellations were not implemented. The judge decided to call it off five years ago. You haven't had a cancellation in five years. You've done the math, five years have passed; let's put five years into it, and let's not do the court decisions. You're doing this by hiding behind the pain of our 301 miners. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I suggest you take out these substances, and we get this law out in three days. Let's get these materials out, legalize the Soma miners' rights today, put them in effect today, shall we?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0175par0112	We'll get it all out, don't worry!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0171par0113	If you're honest, come on in, take my advice, let's do this. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0175par0116	It'll be legal even if you don't want to! This law will be passed!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0176par0117	Mr. President reflected it in a way I didn't mean to speak. I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0177par0118	Okay, I'll take turns. Mr. Günal, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0178par0120	No, sir...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0177par0121	I'll make one promise at a time.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0178par0122	Mr. President, I've reflected it quite correctly.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0179par0123	So did we, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0177par0124	I'm saying I'll promise in order, so if you frown, help! We said we'd take turns.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0179par0125	Okay, Mr. President, don't get angry.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0177par0126	No, Mr. Buldan, I don't mean you, I mean the men.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0180par0127	We're the quietest.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0177par0128	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0181par0130	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Canicli is agitating. The report is in full order, you can have it delivered - Mr. Berber is here - in the beginning, in the middle, at least 20 times at the end, bring the Soma. Let's get it out right away. I'm going forward. Mr. Hamzacebi says in three days... we're shooting right now. Bring in the items related to Soma, and on behalf of my group, we will not have any talks, but let them come out in the evening, and send them to the President. Ready? You will remove the assurance of the entire officer that we will come and fight against what you have made up as a parallel state, you will put a lawful hand in the sacred place, you will steal a finger of honey over the poison, and then you will not be bored, sir, you will not be able to stop Soma. That can't be an offer.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0182par0135	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0181par0136	It is you who prevent (men) from doing so. It is you who prevent (men) from doing so.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0183par0137	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0184par0138	Mr. Günal, please...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0181par0139	That's exactly what I'm saying!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0183par0141	Mr. President, he can't talk like that!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0184par0142	Mr. Günal, please...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0181par0143	To say that we have prevented it, Mr. President, I'm very clear that the opposition prevents it. It's rude to say that!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0183par0144	Mr. President, he can't talk like that!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0184par0145	Please, Mr. Günal, please...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0181par0146	The opposition doesn't block it, the opposition does. [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] So, here's the MHP Group... right now, we're voting as a one-pointer in the General Assembly, so bring it in, get that stuff out of the law. However, if the opposition prevents it. If you say so, it's rude, I say it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0185par0149	Mr. President, he's insulting, he can't talk like that. Let him take it back.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0181par0150	The opposition is here. Put not only Soma, but reconstructions...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0186par0151	You're blocking it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0187par0152	Let him take that back, Mr. President. Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0188par0154	...what's in favor of the state, but not the pool of allies, not the price difference to the allies, not the price difference to the supporters, not the tender to the supporters, not the cover of privatisation, but the articles that have removed the officer's assurances, the right to a fair trial, let us spend the rest of the rest of this place in one day, and let the President publish it tomorrow in the Official Gazette.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0189par0155	But you're blocking it!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0188par0156	If you say otherwise, you can't come at the opposition like this, but we will continue to prevent it, and we will use all the rights that the Civil Law brings.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0190par0158	You're blocking the law on Soma.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0191par0159	You're blocking it, you're blocking it!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0188par0160	It is you who hinder (men) from the truth, and on the Day of Ramadan you are the ones who imprison people.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0191par0161	You keep blocking it!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0192par0162	Well, work for the people, don't work for the pool people, don't work for the contractors! At least work for the good of the nation in holy Ramadan!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0188par0163	You're the one who locked us up in the Budget Commission for thirty-eight days. It's your idea of a enforcer. We object to that. If you take back what you said... if you take back what you've done... then the rudeness will be gone. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0193par0166	People don't vote for these things, I'm sorry!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0194par0167	And work for the greater good!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0195par0168	Mr. President, I'd like you to take that back, please.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0196par0169	I know, I know...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0197par0170	You don't want it, you don't want the law on Soma.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0198par0171	Let's get it out, right now, right now. Let's get him out of here in an hour.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0199par0172	Mr. President, if you'd like our speaker to speak, then we can all...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0200par0173	Here, let me see you negotiate now.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0201par0174	You don't want the law on Soma workers!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0202par0175	What makes you say that?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0201par0176	You don't want to! You've been blocking the Commission for days.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0203par0177	Look, we're gonna get this all out, don't worry about it!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0204par0178	Now, Mr. Günal, you take back this vile promise.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0205par0179	I didn't say it was rude, it's rude to say it's rude. I insist.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0206par0180	Mr. President, will they decide what's right and wrong? That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0205par0181	The opposition prevents it. It's rude to say that because we...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0207par0182	Anyway, I'll take a look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0205par0183	Mr. President, there's a full report on the Plan and Budget Commission. How many times do you get them to come over and tell them that we told them...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0207par0184	I'll take a look at the records, dear.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0208par0185	Mr. President, tell us the word "substantial" when we have a clear attitude regarding the issues in favor of the citizen, and we'll answer.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0207par0186	I'll take a look at the records. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0209par0188	You're blocking the law on Soma.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0210par0189	Opposition obstructs illegality, opposition blocks illegality, that's what he's going to say.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0209par0190	You're blocking the law on Soma.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0210par0191	The opposition is not obstructing Soma law.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0211par0192	You'll be cleared, you'll be taking a runt to the tenders on this. No way!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0212par0194	It's not like that, it's not like that! Take that back!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0211par0195	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0213par0197	All right, guys, listen, you've wasted seven or eight seconds already. This bag...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0214par0199	It's not a bag, it's a sack!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0213par0200	... As a soma bill, it came as 61 articles by the government. Then there was 106 in the subcommittee, then there was 148. Each time, as the opposition, we said three parties: take out the parts about Soma, and we'll get them out in three days. Let's take out the part about the configuration, the other parts, the residency commissions, let's discuss it, let's talk about it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0201	That's blocking the law, that's the law.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0213par0202	Look, Mr. Canikli, take a good look at those eyes, the Soma miners, those kids. Look, if you bring in the 301 pain, the Soma bill, and you put a special law on the company, you put a special law on the private sector, you put a special law on the private sector, you put a privatisation, against the law, against the Constitution, against the Civil Code, I will not enforce the laws of the Court. If you call it, if you don't move, if you go to the private sector, we will surely oppose you and we will not allow you. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) We have the right to opposition, we will make that opposition. This is no longer called the law of the Soma, but it is called the law of therant, the law of the Torba. Let no one call it the Soma bill, and do not commit this injustice. We're going to talk as a group, but don't let anyone do this injustice, and don't blame us. We've always spoken in good faith, you've always trusted the majority, denied everything, friends, be sincere.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0216par0204	Mr. Canikli, please.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0207	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Once again, the opposition is delaying the negotiations of this law, doing everything in its power to prevent it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0217par0209	That's a shame, you're slandering me.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0210	Is it true or not? That's what I'm saying. So, from here on out, I'm giving you back the exact same insult I've been given to you for speaking my mind. There's a lot of dirty stuff going on. I'll say my opinion, of course, but you can't treat me like this, you can't insult me; I'll return your insult with a thousandfold.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0218par0211	Don't defend the pool people, don't defend the black moneymen, don't defend the bag state if you love God! Defend democracy, uphold law.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0212	Are you the only one who decides what's good and what's wrong? The House will decide...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0219par0213	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0214	...the will of the people will decide. In the end, it'll be discussed, voted, everyone will say everything, and the decision will come out of there.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0220par0216	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0217	But I know the truth, you can't do anything other than what I say, whatever you do, I'll stop it!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0221par0218	Yeah, that's what you say.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0219	...democratic logic or right logic? What we're trying to say, dear friends, is that's all I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0222par0220	You do illegal work, you do illegal work.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0221	Look, it's not just that, as far as we're concerned, all those arrangements that you find wrong, they're all very important, including the configuration.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0223par0222	Sure, sure, the supporters are waiting, the tenders are waiting!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0223	Also, the arrangements for the officers you say or bring up are extremely important.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0223par0224	Yes, yes, the tenders are waiting, they're all waiting for you!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0225	It is also crucial for the safety of the country, for its future, for its removal from gangs. That's how we see it, that's how we see it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0224par0227	Wasn't it until yesterday or not until yesterday?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0225par0228	Reza's waiting, Reza!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0229	And in this law, there is no special arrangement for anyone, for any company.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0225par0230	Reza is proud of you!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0231	We'll discuss them, we'll discuss them in detail when they arrive.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0226par0232	You're the one who's cooperating with the gangs!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0233	None of them have any special arrangements.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0227par0234	What do you mean, no?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0228par0235	Reza's waiting, Reza!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0236	If you want to see a special arrangement, you look back on the past, the past. We have all these records. Dear friends, this is all about the whole nation, the budget...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0229par0238	As for the matter, you'll be smoke, smoke!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0239	... It concerns the state's financial structure and will be severely distressed if it is not done.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0229par0240	Which one, which one?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0241	Publicisation arrangements, publicisation arrangements. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Tell me, which one is it? Even the Minister of Finance is against it! You've been through the hell of it with the Minister of Finance! And what we're going to see here is that we're bringing them in to prevent some of the main gangs from making money off of state-owned gangs.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0230par0245	Even the Minister of Finance said to pull it back.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0246	I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0230par0248	Tell me which gangs, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0215par0249	We'll explain when the time comes.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0231par0250	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0232par0251	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0233par0252	Mr. Hamzacebi got up first. Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0234par0254	The gang is the only one who uses the word gang.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0235par0255	Mr. President, the speaker has made a comeback in his speech.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0236par0256	What did I say, Mr. President? I said, "You're delaying this law." What's wrong with that?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0237par0257	You said Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0238par0258	Calm down, calm down, calm down!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0236par0259	I'm the judge, I've got my temper.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0238par0260	Watch your tongue! What's with the anger, the hatred, the hatred?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0239par0261	We're listening to Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0236par0262	You can't put pressure on this place, you can't stop the will of Parliament from working!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0239par0263	Mr. Canikli, please...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0240par0264	The power is blocking his own bag.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0241par0265	It's imploding power.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0242par0267	Guys, let me finish my speech. Mr. President, every time I stand up and start talking, the ruling party's co-chair is interfering with my speech.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0243par0269	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0242par0270	He's just been on the stand, talking. I didn't say a word, I listened to him all the way. He went back to square one in his speech, started picking on me again. The first reason I took a promise was that the opposition blocked the law because of the positive provisions made to Soma workers.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0244par0271	He never said that.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0242par0272	I said it wasn't true. He came out again, insisting on the same opinion...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0245par0274	He said, "This is the law."
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0242par0275	...and to illustrate positive regulations from the law, he said something completely contrary to what I said, so he interpreted what I said in a different way. I want word on Article 69, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0246par0276	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0245par0278	Mr. President, where's the teasing? Don't! Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0242par0280	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm going to read you a clause from here. Now, what does this have to do with our 301 workers who died in Soma? Article 112 - As of the date of the release of this article, there is no procedure to be rescinded over the privatisation of the privatisation and delivery proceedings that have been passed for five years. The government had calculated that five years had ended, so let's write five years. Four years would have written four years. Six years would have written six years. Five years later, he says: "Let's not take them back. " What does this have to do with our 301 workers who died in Soma?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0245par0281	Who said there was?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0242par0282	It's a shame, isn't it? Is it appropriate to hide behind the pain of our soma workers and make this arrangement?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0247par0283	He said it was about the budget, he said it was about the budget; he didn't say it was about Soma. He said it was about the budget.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0242par0284	Article 100 says that in the event of the dismissal of public officials, the courts cannot decide to stop the execution, and in any case, the administration will carry it out within two years, not 30 days, but on one condition: I will put him back on another mission, taking into account his former duties. What does this have to do with the Soma workers?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0248par0285	You can be critical.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0249par0286	It's about the dissolution of the parallels.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0242par0287	The Meras are beginning to build on the decision of the Council of Ministers. What does that have to do with Soma workers? The municipalities were able to give their land to invest until today, and now you're saying: "The authorities may not have the money for the investor" -- give the ready building to a number of foundations. You know who those foundations are. How does this have anything to do with Soma workers? Take these off, we'll legalize what's on the Soma workers today. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0250par0290	Mr. President, we want it for the same reason. Mr. Mehmet Günal...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0251par0291	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0252par0293	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Canikli, all of this is included in the articles sent by the Speaker of Parliament, which are against the Civil Code. See, there was the Public Contraction Act, and you pulled one down, and there was the deed law, and there was the nationalization. I've told you over and over, there's part of the corruption file in the transcripts. Who are you doing favors for, uh, the defamation of the stadium in Kayseri? I'll give you another example, and we told the minister that the DSI, which is going to control water structures for State Water Affairs, the DSI that's going to control the company, the DSI that's going to determine the company, the DSI that's going to give the tender. I ask you, friend, take this, you set your standards, there's the Public Watch and Control Agency, there's the Energy Market Organization, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're insisting. So, which company are you gonna give it to? Why are you doing the bidding for 800 or so Hes? So, we're not gonna stand up to them now? The orphan has a right here. If the citizen's right to press charges is dropped, if false, false court decisions are guaranteed and you're dropping it, let me do it in two years instead of thirty days, nobody asks me, I'll be a dictator. If you say you'll be together for ten years, you'll be fighting for eleven years. There's a parallel state in the southeast, and here with gangs... you're the one who brought out the gangs. It's not just someone's benefit, it's the gangs, it's the money launderers, it's the gang, it's the gang, it's the gang, it's the gang, they're the ones who support the gang, otherwise...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0253par0297	It's the gang that supports them directly.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0252par0298	We're not protecting anyone here, we're defending the rule of law. Tomorrow, when these four ministers -- who are in charge of your kidnapping -- and Mr. Prime Minister -- are on trial in the Supreme Court, we will defend their law, and we will defend their trial in accordance with the Constitution and the law.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0253par0299	You keep dreaming. Keep dreaming!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0252par0300	We stand for the rule of law, so we oppose them. About Soma, I say again: Bring it in, and we'll have it out in an hour.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0254par0303	Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0255par0305	Thank you, Mr. President. We're the most consistent group in this Civil Code, and I'll tell you why: We opposed the first stage of the Commission to combine 108 legal proposals with the bill, and it's against the Civil Code 35, it can't be merged. You put it together, you brought it here. Now, the debate here continues in violation of the Civil Code. But we're not going back to the Civil Code debates. Mr. Canikli seems to be in a bad mood, he's in a bad mood.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0256par0308	My psychology is good! That's not for you to decide! Don't overstep your bounds! Watch your language! That's not for you to decide!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0257par0309	Mr. Zozani, please don't make it personal.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0255par0310	But, see, the words of Mr. Canikli, which he had just spoken here on this bench, are explained in some way, meaning the exploitation of the pain of 301 miners who lost their lives in Soma. He exploited the pain, he shed crocodile tears on the pain here. Thus, what he just said here is not appropriate for a ruling party deputy leader; he must come from parliament and from Soma workers, from the families of the workers who lost their lives, and apologize to this assembly bench.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0256par0311	You're doing a mugalata right now.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0255par0312	It is fitting for him. You'll get it...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0256par0313	You're talking nonsense!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0255par0314	You're the one talking nonsense!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0256par0315	You're talking nonsense, it's empty! You say what you think, you say what you think, you say what you think.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0255par0316	If you hadn't been talking nonsense, you wouldn't have fallen into such a void, you wouldn't have gone into such a handicap. Yeah, well, that's the kind of mistake you're in because you're talking nonsense. You have to accept it. You made such a mistake because you were talking nonsense.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0256par0317	What a bummer! Right. You're not? You're blocking it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0258par0318	The opposition is responding, listen.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0255par0319	Of course, it's inept. Yes, because of the pain of the Soma workers, the 301 people who were killed in Soma, who lost their lives in that disaster, you have exploited emotion here.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0256par0320	You're doing it, you're doing it!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0255par0321	You should come and apologize. You should come and apologize here. Shame on you, that's a shame!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0256par0322	It's your fault!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit03spe0259par0323	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0259par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 117th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The Commission and the Government are here. You have the final say in the formal debate, Mr. Vural. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0260par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, as the National Movement Party, we have expressed our views on this bill in the Plan and Budget Commission, over and over and over at press conferences, and I've talked to them on the phone, and look, let's get this out of the way about restructuring with Soma, and as soon as we can, we'll get this out with you. As the National Movement Party, this has been our sincere position. Mr. Canikli, you remember, I said, don't do this, let's do this. So, in this regard, the idea that the opposition would stop them from going through this ordeal that 301 miners were going through in Soma. It's very evocative. I don't think I've seen that kind of expression in a blessed day, but I really don't. I mean, that's not...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0261par0012	You're indirectly blocking it, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0260par0013	Soma and reconstruction are not enough; it is true, we do not see enough. These miners came to our group today, and we agreed with Mr. Akchay, and they cried, and promised, and failed to keep these promises. I don't know if they've come to your group or not, but the miners who've been in negotiations with the Prime Minister have also arrived. Their demands have not been taken into account, and we will speak them, and we do not see enough. But let's separate the positives. Look, come on, let's separate these, let's make the distinctions -- you don't have to worry about them, let's separate them -- let's separate them, let's separate them, let's end them -- come up and discuss the issues we object to, then bring them up as a law proposition. Mr. President, in fact, the subject of the procedure debate is my proposal. Now what's my offer? If it's rejected, it shouldn't be written here. If it's accepted, show me the clause, it's not. What happened to my offer? The General Assembly says that the offer of Oktay Vural is correct, and I want to discuss it. As a commission, we have the will to discuss this proposal, Mr. President, let's discuss it. Inform the Commission of the whereabouts of this proposal. In that respect, the work needs to be done... Actually, the button was buttoned wrong. That's what happened last year with this bag of laws, dear friends. Look, we said that the government may have urgent needs, so let's get together, and whatever urgent things happen, we'll get them out right away. You didn't fit in. The basic law is wrong... Cemil Cicek wants to block that law too? He refused, he returned. Cemil Cicek says it's against the Civil Charter. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You've been on the agenda for 48 hours, and there are issues that can't be proposed. Dear brothers, we're just defending the law of the nation here. We don't have media allies, we don't have friendly contractors, we don't have a gate to the corrupt moneymaker, we don't have a gate to the Riza, we don't have a door to the black money guys. That's our attitude, loud and clear. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0262par0021	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Members of parliament, according to Article 35 of the Civil Code, the commissions can meet by combining what they see related to each other from the bill and proposals referred to them. The commission report states which jobs are combined. The number of rows includes the text of each job combined. It is understood from the commission's commission's commission report that it conducts its talks on the basis of the bill, that a subcommittee is prepared to form a subcommittee, and that it is continuing to work through the subcommittee text, while proposals and new materials are added to the text. The report does not specify the extent to which the proposed laws were used and reflected in the text. The subcommittee text, based on the draft bill, appears to reflect this in the Commission text and the assessments in the report. The detailed and much more detailed arrangement of the report, of course, is preferable, but in Article 42 of the Internal Charter, which regulates the commission reports, the commission reports indicate that the commission's opinion on the subject and the grounds for the changes made. In this framework, the position of the president to begin negotiations with the report has not changed.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0263par0023	It's against the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0264par0024	Mr. President, thank you. But what I want to know is that as a member of the law, I made an offer of law, and the Civil Code says that when the proposals of the law are rejected, they will not be brought up for a year. What am I supposed to do? What am I supposed to do with the law?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0265par0026	That's what they say you're in, that's what the Deputy Commissioner said, that's what I figured.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0266par0027	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0264par0028	So if it was accepted, where was it?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0267par0029	No substance, no substance.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0266par0030	What's it on?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0264par0031	If it's rejected, why are they putting it together, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0268par0032	It's in the report there.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0269par0033	No, no, there's no substance there.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0270par0034	Where is it, where did you read it? Where is it? What part of it did you read, and what part do you call it?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0271par0035	Mr. Commissioner, what the Vice President is saying is that in the General Assembly, that code of law will eventually be accepted or not be accepted. Let me get this straight. Can you repeat that? Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0272par0037	Mr. President, in addition to Mr. Vural and his friends, there has been a merger of 108 proposals -- indirect or direct -- seen in this bill we're negotiating. Before this merger was made, all bidders were sent an article about it, invited to the Commission to discuss their proposals, to discuss their proposals in the Commission, in which their proposals would be merged.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0273par0038	We didn't get any writing.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0274par0039	No, no, no writing.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0272par0040	I do. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0274par0041	No, sir, no writing. He's not right. Let him show you the writing.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0272par0042	The consolidation of proposals here does not mean that all of the items in these proposals, one or all of them, will enter into the Commission text here, the Commission itself makes this assessment.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0275par0043	The commission didn't make an assessment.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0272par0044	As a result, the Commission created a text and sent this text here after combining these 108 proposals and the bill. In fact, what's really happening here, Mr. President, is that even though that's the last joke of the 75th Amendment, it's not right for him to come here to talk about the bill and the proposals. So it's merged here... and you're not here to discuss proposals, 108 proposals, or bill separately. It's the text of the Plan and Budget Commission that's being discussed here, that's the text, that's the text, that's the speech. If a clause or the entire text of this text is to be withdrawn to the Commission, it is the Commission and the Government who are in charge of this, other than that, the MPs have no authority. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0276par0046	Mr. President, the President of the Commission has confessed once, he said: "We've combined all concerned, indifferent.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0277par0047	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0276par0048	He said, "It's irrelevant."
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0278par0049	Okay, that's what he said.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0279par0050	I said it was indirect, direct.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0276par0051	So, Mr. President, the bottom line is, will my proposal of the law be accepted when the General Assembly accepts it or rejected when it's rejected? I mean, that's what I want to know. My proposal for the law is a final vote. The General Assembly's will is superior to the commission's will, and it binds you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0278par0052	Right.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0276par0053	He says: I will discuss this proposal of the law.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0278par0054	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0276par0055	After we meet, I have nothing to say that will either agree or refuse, but I'd like to know, where's the text he'll accept or reject?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0280par0056	Sir, it's the lawyers who make his decision, it's a legal matter, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0276par0057	I mean, if he gets rejected, I can't offer him a law for a year.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0280par0058	Sir, the lawyers will decide, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0281par0059	Mr. President, Mr. Vice President of the Commission says that this has been discussed.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit04spe0282par0060	I'd like to ask the group vice presidents in the back. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0282par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 117th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The commission is here. The government is here. Members of parliament, the procedure debates, which began with the group proposal for the adoption of the bill in yesterday's merger and continued at the beginning of all talks, continued at different levels today. We listened to the commission report and the procedure regarding the text he agreed to, the objections and the arguments against those objections. Once again, we need to state that the president who has the power to remove the commission's report from the process does not own it. After all talks, the General Assembly may adopt or reject the adoption of the bill. As far as we're concerned, I think it's time to start negotiations on the bill and share opinions on its content, and I'm starting negotiations on the entire bill.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0283par0010	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0284par0011	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0282par0012	On behalf of the nationalist movement group...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0283par0013	Mr. President, I have a petition.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0284par0014	Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0282par0015	Sir?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0284par0016	Mr. President, you just made a statement, before you went into this thing. You said that if you read it, sir, the report is in accordance with Article 35 of the Civil Code. However, the report violates Article 35 of the Civil Code. Because the Civil Code...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0285par0017	There's a letter from the Speaker.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0282par0018	No, there's no such statement here.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0284par0019	Yes, I do, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0282par0020	No, it's here, dear. I'll read it again.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0284par0021	When you just read it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0282par0022	No, it's not like that. No...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0284par0023	The report violates Article 35 of the Civil Code because the Commission has not been referred to...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0282par0024	According to Article 35 of the Civil Charter, the commissions are able to discuss what they see related to each other by combining the bill and proposals referred to them.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0284par0025	But there's something different here.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0286par0026	But there's a letter from the Speaker, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0282par0027	We've just had a little bit of a conversation about this, so...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0284par0028	But, Mr. President, this is very important. It's like you guys missed it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0282par0029	However, something else has come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0287par0030	Mr. President, it's in the transcript of this report that the Speaker of the House is in violation of the Civil Code of 35. So...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0282par0031	Yeah, I've probably heard them 150 times since yesterday. We've done all this. But now that there's a motion to withdraw again, I'm going to process it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0287par0032	Okay, I'm asking you, Mr. President, to state that there is a will in this matter of the Speakership. The Speaker has a will here, in case the Civil Code is not 35.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0282par0033	Okay. The commission sent it back. I don't have the authority to tell this Commission to get out of here, I don't want this Commission report, and I don't want to say I'm shutting down the House! It's over! My brain's spinning from opening up a legal debate!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0288par0035	Why is the Speaker here, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0282par0036	My brain is spinning!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0288par0037	No, I mean, why does the Speaker exist?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0282par0038	I'm not doing this to you, for God's sake!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0288par0039	You will not tolerate irregularities. You're there...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0282par0040	Good. I don't have that kind of authority.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0288par0041	No, you're saying Mr. President: Sir, it's against Article 35.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0282par0042	Mr. Young, it's over. Mr. Vural has an offer to take it back; I have to have it read. The bill was merged into the 639 rows of the Bill of Law 245, 246 and 247. In connection with my main Law Proposal (2/1899), it was not allowed to negotiate by not calling my side on the 26th Amendment clause of the TBMM Interior Charter. And there has been no regulation regarding my proposal of the law. I'd like to ask that our bill, which is included in the bill, which has been mentioned for the specific reasons, be withdrawn.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0289par0052	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0282par0053	No, he doesn't have a say in this.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0289par0054	No, no, sir, but...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0290par0055	I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0291par0056	An explanation for what?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0292par0057	You read his alibi.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0293par0058	Sit down, I can promise you a minute according to Article 60.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0294par0059	Mr. President, it doesn't matter, so why is it the 60th article? So there's been a clear irregularity, and you're trying to cover up this irregularity.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0295par0060	Sit down!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0293par0061	Yeah, I'm trying to cover everything up! Oh, great, okay... and you know everything best!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0294par0062	Sir, you can't sit there if the Speaker doesn't have clearance.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0293par0063	You're a professor of orientation. You have abused my respect, my respect for you, my loyalty to you so much that I will not listen to you from now on.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0296par0065	Very good... well done!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0294par0066	Mr. President, I'm not saying anything. Covering up the irregularities of this place...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0293par0067	Is that a thing, dear? Since yesterday, you've insulted me so much, I haven't answered any of them. I'm using a very careful language.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0294par0068	I didn't insult you, Mr. President, don't take this the wrong way. This group also pierces the Constitution, and pierces the Civil Law.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0293par0069	You said it, you said it, it's not enough. You said it, you said it, you said it, I didn't even return it, but now I've had my fill, period! There's no such thing! Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0297par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. As we have stated in our petition, my proposal for the law, which has been combined in this bill, has not been explained to my side because there is no call for negotiation, and there is no regulation for the removal of the victims of business and professional advisers. So our proposal for the law is supposedly covered, but there are no regulations involved in this law proposal. Therefore, we have demanded that this action be annulled in violation of the Civil Code and that our legal proposal be withdrawn, with due respect. I think you'll do just fine. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0298par0077	The General Assembly knows whether they'll accept it or not.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0299par0078	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0298par0079	Mr. Hamzacebi, may I offer a vote, and before that, do you have something to say?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0299par0082	Yes, before we vote, Mr. President, I'm going to ask for a sufficient number of meetings.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0298par0083	Oh, I'm so sorry, I didn't hear. Before you submit the motion to withdraw the offer to your votes, there is a request for a roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Pine, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Ören, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Özgüş, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Kuğoğlu, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Turk. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes the motion to withdraw the offer: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. On top of the bill, on behalf of the groups, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Congressman Sumer Oral. [[Noises]] Mr. Oral, just a second... Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I beg you, let's cut the humming a little bit. Here you go, Mr. Oral.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0300par0102	Mr. President, I stand before you on behalf of the National Movement Party on behalf of the Bill of the Law on the Amendments to certain Laws and Laws. At the beginning of my words, I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0298par0103	Congressmans, I'd appreciate it if those who want to go out could move a little faster.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0300par0104	Mr. President, we're facing a new proposal from the law, which is called the "torba", with the rulings of the Justice and Development Party. Basically, there's a technique and discipline in law enforcement. We're not the only ones who make the law -- there's discipline in law, there's careful law -- it's usually the practice in all countries that have adopted the rule of law. I've done it. There's no legal arrangement with a volley approach. In our tradition as Turkey, it has developed this way, but during the Justice and Development Party, an application was created called "the Law of Justice" -- an application that may be applied in extreme exceptional situations -- was unfortunately turned into a complete rule. Consistent issues, which are not related to each other, are often brought together, often without the opinion of the relevant institutions of the state. The basic law has a place and meaning, but this law, called torba, has no place or meaning. It seems the Justice and Development Party likes this bag of terminology and the bag, for the best. Mr. President, there was a major coal mine disaster on May 13th in Soma. There is absolutely no way to call what happened an accident, because of predictable reasons, it's obvious that there's severe negligence and imperfection. In the 21st century, it is absolutely impossible to accept that in a business where human life is at stake in the age of knowledge and technology, the risks are unpredictable, undetected, unrecognized. The mines, especially coal mines, are the pits that pose serious risks. The quality of the technology and all the equipment that should be contained in these enterprises is of extraordinary importance. There's no way to avoid costs in these matters. It is imperative that effective, quality and periodic inspections preserve the security of working in the furnaces for every minute of every day. It's about people, and it's about human life. If there is technological inadequacy in these areas, it does not reduce the promise, but it does. As a matter of fact, all administrative and forensic investigations have revealed this issue without discussion. Mr. President, the main reason for discussing the bill we discussed was to provide additional opportunities for at least the hearts of our workers' painful families, and also to assess the problems of mines and coal mines, especially business security, while they were doing so. Another important issue, by the way, was to bring the working and financial conditions of our workers struggling to feed hundreds of feet beneath the soil. We insisted that this law that we have passed should be a special law for Soma, whose name should be Soma. With Soma, of course, all other coals and mines would be considered as one. Soma is at the top of our cities, the first to come to mind when it's called coal. In fact, the prospect of this legal arrangement was actually in that direction. By the way, just after the disaster, we repeatedly stated the importance of the conclusion of the legal arrangement in a short period of time, that in such disasters the state should have a different sensitivity, that it should knock on the door of a citizen without knocking on the door of the state. The arrangements for Soma (Soma), which was part of the bill we discussed, could not have been legalized within a separate week, and why didn't we do so? Despite our insistence and warnings, why didn't we choose the reasonable? For some reason, this was not the development; there was an arrangement in which everything and everything was included, including many bills and proposals, up to the tax pardon. He came to the Commission as 61 articles, came out as 148, and continued for 38 days. As a result, Soma, the movement point, was practically trapped in this bag. Unfortunately, this is the painting that came out. It's been sixty-three days since the disaster, and we've lost a lot of time. Despite some positive regulations that we have proposed, the bill, in its current form, is far behind what was expected to improve the quality of the government's promises and business security, and the subcontractor problem has not been solved. It would certainly have been more appropriate and more elegant if it had been more intimate with Soma (Soma) and painful families as Parliaments. Mr. President, in the Plan and Budget Commission, the amendments and additions to the bill were not limited to the extent of the form, but to more serious levels of the content of the bill. The legal state and the passage of the age, even the provisions that were hit, were included, in a way, the life of the law was read out. These were not appropriate behaviors for Turkey, a civilized country in the modern world. In the matter department, we'll go into these issues in more detail. In the meantime, we have requested that the bill be removed from the draft text of the provisions included in the Plan Budget Commission in violation of the Constitution and Civil Code provisions. The request was not adopted, but the fact that the request was not adopted does not necessarily eliminate the fact that these issues were contrary to the Constitution and the Civil Law. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers must not be ignored by the severe tremor that the May 13th disaster has caused on the economic life of Soma (Soma), a population of over 105 thousand people. The size of stagnation and congestion that occurs in Soma, commercial relations and payments, where the important part of the active population is working in the furnaces, can easily be predicted. For the record, a citizen, especially in that area, usually lives on a daily basis. I hope that this current heavy economic conjunctive in Soma is on the government's agenda, and that the necessary measures will be taken soon, and that we will follow it. Soma seems to have strayed from the government's agenda in a way, but it will never be able to get out of the public agenda. Mr. President, with your permission, I'd like to recap my views on the financial pardon in this department. First it has to be known that such arrangements never come under the name of the law of forgiveness. A bill or proposal that comes with this name has not been seen so far; the word "forphalt" is often not pronounced. As a matter of fact, the amnesty laws, which were issued during the Justice and Development Party, did not come under the name of aff. This is what happened, and we're making it easy to pay. We're building things. However, these arrangements have only one name in the tax literature: pardon. With the bill, the collection of interest and hikes is waived in exchange for paying the interest of the principals of taxes, which were finalised before 30 April 2014, which will be calculated by TEFE. In the commission, the fines were also included in the main money. The arrangement with its current structure contains some important limitations, but as a result, a law of forgiveness is a form of forgiveness. The AKP's governments have arranged for this kind of amnesty eight times during a 12-year period of power, large and small. These arrangements were carried out by law, and others by general notifications. This period has often been an application for fiscal forgiveness arrangements. I think everyone will be allies when it's a very remarkable picture of a government that's come to power to prevent tax pardons from being obstructed by Constitutional provisions. Mr. President, there's no doubt that our tax system needs editing. However, the needed arrangements are more towards the overall structure of the system. The twelve years that you left will be seen to be made in pieces, in disorganized arrangements, but not in the way the whole system is covered in a wholeness. As a matter of fact, by the Justice and Development Party's governments, this fact has been expressed in the mouth of the Finance Ministers during the presentation of almost every budget law to parliament over the past 12 years, but it has not been seen as a concrete step in this direction. It is not possible to say that a change in the structure of this period's significant income administration in 2005 has yet to be expressed. The Turkish IRS has become tax control and function and non-employee tax administration. I don't see the need to assess the independence of the administration. After a long break, finally, on 12 June 2013, a draft law was presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The general reason for this bill on the Law on Taxes is the following: the creation of a simple and fair tax system, the building of public financing on solid foundations, promoting sustainable development, encouraging employment, production, savings and investments, facilitating tax compliance, reducing the economy's level of registration, reducing regional development. It took 12 years for the government to see this truth and this need. This bill, mentioned, has been forgotten on the shelves of the Plan and Budget Commission for a full year before the lid is opened. Mr. Commissioner is probably paying attention to this, Mr. Barber. The government has no right to leave the bill dusting on the shelves of the Plan Budget Commission, stressing the need to regulate the tax system on the grounds that it has submitted the bill to parliament -- Mr. President -- carefully highlighting the need to regulate the tax system. Why was the bill prepared, and why was the bill abandoned? Since the reasons for the preparation of the bill has not been removed, the reason for this attitude must be explained. Such an attitude leads to the question and discussion of the government's sincerity and responsibility. If you don't make these claims and enforce that arrangement, if you don't make it legal, you need to get up here and give the obvious answer. Dear lawmakers, the main goal of the economic programme, adopted by the Justice and Development Party government after the November 3rd 2002 elections, was the creation of a sustainable growth environment on a solid public finance floor. There is no doubt that the weight of the tax system is greater in maintaining and maintaining budget and financial discipline. One-time privatisation revenues are no substitute for tax revenues. Fiscal, economic and social functions are a balanced tax system, an indispensable element of a healthy economy, but in the 12 years we left behind, structural regulation in this area has not been carried out. However, it is expected that our tax system will be restored to a modern and healthy structure. In particular, the gap between the indirect and direct tax, the inadequacy of the declaration system, the almost patched structure of the IRS Act, for some reason, has not been concentrated in this direction so far. Today, indirect taxes have increased over 70 per cent within our tax system. When the Justice and Development Party arrived, it was 65 percent. I remember very well, in the first budget, the Finance Minister said that that day was a lot of 65 percent, that he would pull it down with measures that he would implement. I'm guessing that budget presentation is in the budget commission. It's good to remember it once again, so what was said and what wasn't done. The government should improve the economic climate, which has led to the adoption of the laws of forgiveness rather than enforcing the law of forgiveness. If the Afs are not based on political reasons, you must admit that your economic policy is often broken. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to deliver a little passage from a panel on the Turkish tax system and share it with you. Look, on that panel, our Finance Minister, Mr. Mehmet Simsek, the pardons, of course, were made in all periods of time in Turkey, and these pardons are a serious violation of tax compliance. Although now a qualified majority of pardons is required, in fact, perhaps it is necessary to make it very clear in the Constitution that they cannot be pardoned, perhaps we should include it in the unchangeable clauses of our Constitution. Tax pardons show a very serious injustice. He says, and he adds, "Don't let me read them. " I didn't have the slightest hesitation when the minister was sincere in his comments, and I watched it to the end, but I'd like to say that in the time of a Finance Minister who said so, I didn't really take this kind of arrangement as normal for economic management.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0301par0127	He said it in the commission, Mr. Secretary, and he said it in the Commission, you know.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0300par0128	Mr. President, at the end of my words, I'd like to say that the legal provisions called this torba have to be avoided. This is not the right method. Creating the wrong sample. In this way, without style, in this sense, we also do injustice to the bag, which is a small object that we use in our daily life, which is the size, size, size, and size, which can bend and connect. Mr. President, now that we've discussed the bag law, at the end of my speech, I'd like to add this G20. When Mr. Erdoğan announced the Vision Document on 11 July 2014, there was no G20 member Turkey before us, he said. He said, "This is right here." G20 was founded in 1999, and Turkey is a founding member of the G20. It's been here ever since, and when G20 was founded in 1999, there was no Justice and Development Party, but there was a G20 process. In his first, second, third meeting, there was no AKP, there was no process of reciprocity. Is this a mistake or was it done on purpose? But neither of them has ever been true. Mr. President, as I end my words here, I would like to extend my love again to my dear congressman friends.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0302par0132	Thank you, Mr. Oral. There's an application for a retraction of one of the combined law proposals, and I'm having them read and processed. No regulation has been made regarding our proposed law, as it is not required to be called under Article 26 of the Constitution of TBM, on page 211, page 639 of the Bill of Law (2/1655). We would like to ask for a retraction of our proposed law, which is included in the bill, which is mentioned for the specific reasons.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0303par0142	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0302par0143	According to the 60th article... Wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0304par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. In this bill, it is stated that our proposals have been merged, but we see that there is no expression in this bill concerning our proposal. In particular, the President of the Commission's proposals were provided to the MPs involved in this bill to make a statement on the Commission. I believe that his statement in the form of the Commission is not true. So what we're proposing is that it's been an offer of law in Turkey for a long time to satisfy a need that public opinion has on its agenda, but it's not being evaluated in any way. Therefore, I would like to propose that this proposal be evaluated by members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0305par0152	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0306par0153	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0307par0154	There's a roll call now.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0306par0155	Mr. President, just a moment, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0307par0156	Let's get started, guys.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0308par0157	The vote has been passed, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0309par0158	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0310par0159	We requested roll call, sir, and then...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0311par0160	Mr. President, before we vote on this, we demand a formal debate.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0312par0161	Sir?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0313par0162	Sir, the vote has been passed.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0311par0163	Before we vote...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0314par0164	The vote has been passed, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0311par0165	Sir, the motion to withdraw can't be processed, we'd like to have a formal debate on this.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0315par0166	But I didn't see you, and no one told me.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0311par0167	It can't be processed.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0316par0168	The vote has been passed.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0317par0169	You're late, late, you'll do it next time.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0318par0170	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0319par0171	No, I really didn't, and neither did my friends.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0320par0172	Look at the records, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0319par0174	If you don't make a noise, I'll be able to listen to the friends, so we'll find a solution to the matter in a manner of speaking. I made it clear, Mr. Kubat wanted it, I didn't see it, and my friends here didn't warn me, so I'm not saying that, but I'll listen.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0321par0175	Mr. President, but wait a second, I didn't see it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0319par0176	Yeah, I was looking right at you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0322par0177	You didn't have a chance to see it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0321par0178	No, after I called for a vote, after I asked for a roll call, he stood up, so the vote began, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0319par0179	I don't know about that.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0323par0180	You didn't come up with any willpower.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0319par0181	Let me hear your objection, and then I'll do the roll call. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0323par0183	Mr. President, the bill is currently in session under Article 81, which has just begun, so it is no longer possible for a retraction motion based on Article 75 to be processed at this stage. The presidency needs to establish a position on the rejection of this motion.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0324par0184	You're late.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0323par0185	If you don't have that attitude, I'm going to ask you to take it easy.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0325par0186	Okay, I get it. I'll do the roll call, the vote, and then I'll open up the procedural debate.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0323par0187	It can't be processed...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0326par0188	It's been processed.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0327par0189	We voted, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0328par0190	Sir, you're not supposed to process it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0329par0191	Sir?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0330par0192	You can't process it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0328par0193	There should be no procedure, no vote.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0329par0194	There's nothing I can do now that the procedure's started.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0328par0195	A formal debate is discussed first.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0331par0196	Interviewed.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0332par0197	He wanted it first, first.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0333par0198	You're on roll call, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0334par0199	Yeah, let's go... Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0335par0201	Mr. President, there's already been an argument about your procedure.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0336par0202	Look at the records, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0334par0203	No, I get it, but I started it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0336par0204	But, Mr. President, it's a matter of procedure, fundamentally.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0334par0205	Yeah, I don't know what you're...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0337par0206	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0334par0207	Mr. Günal, don't shout, my ears are ringing.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0337par0208	But Mr. President passed.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0334par0209	Yeah, but my ears are ringing, car car! It's so loud.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0338par0211	Is that possible, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0334par0212	I want to say something, I'm talking about it for everyone, you're talking about it. I'm out of breath, so you're not cut out or tired? Jesus Christ, people are so energetic! Now, we can't do this because I started roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0338par0214	No, the roll call hasn't started.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0339par0215	Brother, it's amazing, go call your men.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0340par0216	You can't do the roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0341par0217	The roll call has begun, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0339par0218	Officers gonna run this place?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0342par0219	What do you mean?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0339par0220	It's roll call. You're late. Do it next time. You're late, you'll do it next time; you've learned.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0343par0222	And you know it's irregular.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0339par0223	You're late.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0344par0224	This roll call can't be done, sir, so we're going to open up a procedural debate.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0345par0225	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0339par0226	The roll call has begun, Mr. President, this is no way to impose.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0346par0227	Now, don't yell, just a minute! Aren't I the one who's been arguing this way? I'm not picking up, bro, that's enough! Okay, I'll open it later, for God's sake, we're in line.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0345par0228	Mr. President, it's against your will, and we're going to argue this way.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0346par0229	But now, look, I didn't see you, as Mr. Hamzacebi said, when you got up, I started the inspection.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0347par0230	Let's look at the transcripts, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0346par0231	Oh, am I supposed to sit people down?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0348par0232	You're gonna sit him down; roll call hasn't started. It's against the rules to do this roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0349par0233	This roll call is against the rules, sir, and you have to decide first.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0350par0234	Roll call's in.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0351par0235	Mr. President, you've been acting all these years, have you ever seen anything like this? Have you ever seen such an app, sir?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0352par0236	How much longer do we have to wait?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0353par0237	Mr. President, shall we sit down or wait?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0354par0238	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0355par0239	Now, Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0356par0240	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0355par0241	Just a second, I'll answer that way.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0356par0242	Mr. President, 20 of our friends are standing by. You have no right, sir, you have begun to process.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0355par0243	I've written your names, so I'll take you like this. I wrote you all down.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0356par0244	Please, I beg you, conclude the procedure, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0355par0245	But this sentence... Look, I'm always spoken to in an order mode. I'll give you an answer here, and I've written down your names. Please, have a seat. I'm not standing. But it's always either the finger shakes or it's spoken in order mode, and I've never spoken in an order to anyone under this roof. Mr. Aydın, I believe what I'm doing is correct, so even if I open up a discussion of procedure, I agree, so I'm not going to open up a discussion of procedure. Now, I'm starting the roll call...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0357par0250	No way!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0358par0251	Mr. President, but you have to listen to our reasons.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0359par0252	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0360par0254	Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Süçüker, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Eyüboğlu, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Küren, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Öz, Mr. Akova, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Küreli, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Eyüturkkk, Mr. Turk. I'll give you two minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0361par0259	Mr. President, we'd like to discuss the procedure before the vote. Sir, this motion cannot be filed.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0360par0261	This motion will be filed... I'm going to have a little bit of a conversation. In favor, I'll take the odds.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0362par0264	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0363par0265	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0364par0266	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0365par0267	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0366par0268	Mr. President, complete the vote. You did the roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0367par0269	Now, just... Look, Mr. Oktay Vural, I'm going to get the transcripts now. I just opened my mouth, Mr. Hamzacebi, because the meeting asked for enough, so I couldn't tell him I was offering. So now I'm taking this. The procedure itself, it's an objection to the procedure... and I know them, and I'm not in the mood to explain it now, please... so don't object. We've done it all, and now I'm doing what you gentlemen say. I swear to God, my tongue's dry. I can't explain it to you, but you know what I want to do. In favor, I'll take the odds.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0368par0272	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0369par0273	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0367par0274	Write down two of our friends.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0370par0275	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0371par0276	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0372par0277	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0373par0278	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0374par0279	Lehte! That's the first time they've been in favor, thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0375par0280	I was just in favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0374par0281	Okay. Mr. Hamzacebi, am I writing you or is it Cetin?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0376par0283	I'll do the talking, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0374par0284	Oh, you're gonna talk, all right. We'll start again after the defibrillation, and I'm out of batteries right now.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0377par0286	Mr. Aydın never sits down, Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0378par0287	Like his uncle in Soma.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0374par0288	Mr. Tanal, please... Yes, in favor, Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0379par0293	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, it's already been arranged... to open up a legal debate on this matter. Thus, practices have begun in this regard. You've also made a statement of will and will in this matter by refusing to accept these motions. So, what the President does is the right thing to do. As a result, it is within the rights of a congressman to take back his own legal proposal. The procedure is very simple, and I take it back. He will say, "If you accept it, it will be done, and if not, it will not be done." Therefore, since a congressman has the right to make an offer, he has the right to take it back. Therefore, it is possible to submit the motions to be withdrawn, as well as the motions to be submitted until the motions are passed on the proposals of the law. In that respect, Mr. President, your application is correct. You need to calm down about this. That's not much to discuss. Why? You'll appreciate that the esteemed lawmakers are drafting a law proposal. The law has prepared an offer, Mr. Ali Öz and Mehmet Shandır. There's a statement of will, but it's not here. Now, citizens are looking for: either your proposal of the law is being discussed on one hand, and on the other hand, you're working on the rejection of it. They ask, "What's it got to do with your proposal for the law?" As a member of parliament, an offer of law, which is not of his own will, is within a report, entitled to this motion of the law, my friends. I mean, there's no need to be so alarmed, there's no need to argue so much, it's a motion. So, I can't file a closed session motion now? I can. Am I able to make a motion to continue the talks according to 72? I'll give it to you. In this regard, the MP is also making a motion to withdraw the offer. In that regard, what the President has done is very true.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0380par0296	It's not your fault, it's our fault!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0379par0297	But you had to make that objection before you could process it. Unfortunately, you didn't do that because he took a vote. It wasn't right for Mr. President to open a legal debate on this matter before the vote was completed. Mr. President is acting according to the Civil Code. In this regard, Mr. President's application is correct... it is his right to take back the law proposal, to take back the will of a member of the General Assembly, to submit it to the General Assembly's rejection or acceptance before it becomes apparent. In that regard, he used his authority under this Civil Code. Thank you, Mr. President. I believe your application is correct.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0381par0301	Thank you. Mr. Aydın, against you, please.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0382par0304	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, of course, it has already been stated that you have the right to take back the law proposal before you begin negotiations again on the basis of Article 75, which he used. However, according to Article 81 of the Civil Code, we have now begun discussions of the relevant law proposal, its bill -- whatever. Article 81 is very clear: the draft and proposals of the law are discussed according to the following procedure in the General Assembly. And talks have been opened on the entire bill, and even the first speaker has come on behalf of the whole group, who are interested in the bill. Now that we're talking about all the relevant talks, you're a person, and I'm taking back an offer that's been merged according to the Civil Code 35. It violates both the Civil Code and the principles of righteousness.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0383par0306	This whole procedure thing, it doesn't make any sense to you, it's a matter of procedure. You don't know what this has to do with 81.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0382par0307	Therefore, these should not be evaluated after starting negotiations. Besides, we're here to discuss the Commission's text according to the Civil Code 35. We're not discussing the proposal, the bill of a single interested friend. There, dozens of proposals were merged and combined on a specific bill, in accordance with it, to form the Commission's report. What we're talking about here is the Commission's transcript, the Commission's report.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0383par0308	Then what's the point of Article 75? Why don't you explain the 75th article?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0382par0309	However, I am withdrawing my offer alone while discussing the Commission's report, even if I start to negotiate in violation of the Civil Code 81. Let's say we get to the last item, and a friend up there says, "I'll withdraw my offer." Is that possible?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0383par0311	He can, why wouldn't he?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0384par0312	If it's not in place, I'll pull it out.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0382par0313	There's no way, that's not possible after we start negotiating.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0385par0314	He'll pull it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0382par0315	The motion to withdraw this offer should not be evaluated by the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0386par0316	This book is empty, empty!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0382par0317	Therefore, Mr. President, it is not right for you to consider this proposal and even go to the vote, it is against the Civil Code, and it is against the principles of honesty as we know it. The abuse of a rule is incompatible with the rules of good faith, which violate all these rules. So, Mr. President, we've really been in favor of your attitude so far. You really run the House, all of your groups, and I thank you for that.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0387par0319	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0382par0320	But that attitude is not a righteous attitude, it is a violation of the Civil Code, so it is clear that they will be abused in the next period. You shouldn't be challenging these abuses, I say you have to follow the Civil Code, and I say to the law, we need to resume negotiations where we left off. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0387par0323	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0388par0324	Mr. President, this is all wrong.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0382par0325	Are you the one who speaks the truth?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0387par0326	Anyway, we're having a procedural debate, a procedural debate.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0388par0327	It says, "If the 75th article has been transferred to the day." Read it first, read it, don't talk without reading it!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0382par0328	I read it, I read it!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0388par0329	It says: if it's taken to the day...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0389par0330	Now, in favor, Mr. Hamzacebi. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0388par0333	You don't read it, you don't read it, it says if it's in the diary.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0389par0334	Mr. Young, we'll listen to Mr. Hamzacebi, please... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0390par0336	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Justice and Development Party Group, which constitutes the majority of the Grand Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly, have been scattered and lost among the Civil Charter clauses. You can't get past the Civil Code stuff.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0391par0338	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0392par0339	You've suspended the Civil Code!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0393par0340	You're seeking help from the Civil Code. You've got nothing to say, you're playing games.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0394par0341	Dear lawmakers, one of the articles of the Civil Code has no advantage over the other. Mr. Aydın says something, Article 81... before you go to 81, read the last joke of the 75th article.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0392par0342	I told you, it's been implemented.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0395par0343	Executed.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0394par0344	What's the last joke of the 75th article? If these bills and proposals are on the agenda, the General Assembly must decide if they are to be taken back.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0392par0345	▪ He does not say if the meetings have been started.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0396par0346	He says if it's been taken into the day, he doesn't say if it's started.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0394par0347	Mr. President is also presenting the request for a retraction to the General Assembly. Why is this bothering you?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0392par0348	Look at 81, 81!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0394par0349	Mr. Aydın, you said such a thing, such a thing as honesty. Come on, I'm going to make you another suggestion I just made. Let's do it. I'm just saying, it's about Soma. It's not about miners, it's not about citizens, it's not about tax, it's not about debt, it's about...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0392par0350	In favor of the citizen, all in favor of the nation.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0394par0351	...for certain jobs, to save certain people, businessmen, let's remove the items you've brought to certain people from the municipalities, and we'll enforce this bill immediately. Why are you taking so long? You're the ones who extended this bill, you're the ones who kept Soma workers from getting the rights of Soma miners, of mine workers, of those rights as soon as possible.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0392par0352	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0394par0353	You're the ones who are preventing the tax, the premium, the debt configuration from coming into effect as soon as possible.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0392par0354	A conscience, a conscience, a mercy!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0397par0355	Don't take advantage of them!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0394par0356	Because you've put illegal regulations behind these arrangements that might look good in the eyes of society. We say take them off, you don't back down.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0392par0357	And these are in favor of the public.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0394par0358	You are lost among the articles of the Law; you do not even possess the Civil Law. Look, Mr. President, you put the motion to a vote, and then you stand up and you want to talk. Where have you been before? Don't you listen here, on the stand? Aren't you following the General Assembly?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0392par0359	We're following.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0394par0360	Dear lawmakers, remove the 100th article, which undermines the state of law, prevents the rights of public personnel in the event of exile, and regulates the court's decision to cancel that appointment as a matter of fact, if the court decides to cancel it, it will not be carried out. Remove the clause that edits the cancellation decisions regarding the privatisations! Take out the material that leads to construction; there are a couple of other clauses, take them out, and we'll enforce this bill right away. If you're sincere, if you're honest, let's do this. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0398par0363	Thank you. Against you, Mr. Kubat. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0399par0367	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Mr. President, one of the laws and proposals that we're currently discussing in the 639 rows of legislation and proposals, the owner of this bill has demonstrated the will to withdraw after the negotiations of the Commission's report have begun.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0400par0369	It's not a bill, it's a proposal.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0399par0370	If you read the title, it will be written as yellow and proposal. 639, read it first.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0401par0371	Mr. Doğan can't read, nor can he read.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0399par0372	Now, the 75th article, basically, has arranged for the Civil Code to present drafts and proposals to lawmakers of Articles 73 and 74. He immediately arranged for the government or its bidder to withdraw this bill or proposal in Article 75. Seriously, if he didn't come forward without informing here, the bill and the offer can be withdrawn. If it's on the agenda, so if it's printed on the red agenda, the number of rows and they haven't started their meeting there yet, then the bidder, the owner of the bill, of course, can pull it off. But according to the 81st and 91st article, once the practice is started here, the will to take it back is now the principal commission and the government according to Article 88. Thus, the proposal holder's will to withdraw in this direction is legally unacceptable, and should not be processed by the Presidential Court. As far as I know, it's the first time it's ever been done like this. Mr. President, I specifically beg of you. Whatever your decision, we respect your neutral personality. According to Article 63, we insist on it. In this regard, I demand that you appeal to the General Assembly's decision, based on the following practices of the Assembly, according to Article 63, so that a healthy application can be carried out from now on. So, after a bill and proposal began to discuss it in the General Assembly, it is now the main commission on the proposed proposal and the government's decision to withdraw the parliament's proposal, except on Article 88, is not valid; at this point, the General Assembly has only the authority to make a decision on the bill and proposal at the point of rejection, and therefore it is important to implement it. According to Article 63, please, I ask that the General Assembly be brought into the game, and I demand, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0402par0375	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Members of parliament, Article 75 of the Interior Charter (Second Law) has stated that the demands of the bidders to withdraw bids will be submitted to the General Assembly's vote, but there is no rule on which phase of the vote will be carried out. The demands for resuscitation by our presidency will be processed and voted on by the General Assembly in an appropriate part of the merger, which will not interfere with the talks, which will not interfere with the initiative of the talks. Now, I submit to your votes the proposal we just discussed, the offer to take back: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0403par0381	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0402par0382	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0403par0383	I'm just saying, for the record.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0402par0384	Okay.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0404par0385	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0402par0386	Mr. Oz, for God's sake, wait two minutes, let's hear it, then.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0404par0387	Let's learn some honesty, Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0405par0388	The Civil Code has considered this matter in two ways. Now, item 75 is the arrangement until the beginning of negotiations.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0406par0389	Where's that written? Where is it written?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0405par0390	The Civil Code is very clear in 75.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0407par0391	It can be taken until the matter is passed.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0408par0392	Yes, sir, that's correct.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0405par0393	Until we start interviewing.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0407par0394	Not after we vote to transfer to matter.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0405par0395	The 86th article regulates the following part of the talks, and the 86th article is very clear that once the negotiations have begun...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0409par0396	Sir, the 86th article isn't about him, it's the 88th article. It's not 86, bro!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0405par0397	Sorry, 88. The 88th article says that after starting negotiations, the principal commission or the government can take back the bill or the offer. Therefore, after starting negotiations, the right is only at the principal commission or at the government. Other than that, after starting negotiations, the MP has no right to take it back, it's the part before the negotiations begin. Hence, the attitude is wrong.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0410par0399	Thank you. It's on the record. Mr. Ali Öz is next in line... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0411par0403	You can promise Mr. Ali not to be wrong about anything, sir. The 88th article, the commission or the government shall meet the motion to withdraw without a meeting in the General Assembly. However, the law has an offer... that only by the will of the majority will it be a decision to take it back, not take it back. So the two are very different, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0410par0405	Mr. Oz, what were you saying?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0412par0406	Mr. President, in his speech, he considered it a violation of the principles of honesty, so I'd like to make a promise.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0410par0407	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0412par0411	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that what we're doing here, first of all, is true, one. Second of all, we don't take honest lessons from anyone. We will make a law concerning Soma. We will say, "There is no righteousness, and we will not learn righteousness from anyone, by setting up laws for the enrichment of Rantists and his followers. I'm particularly concerned about the fact that the Deputy Director of the Group tried to teach me a lesson in honesty by accusing my own person. I would especially like to say that I have nothing to learn from you about honesty. I mean, under this roof, I'd like to point out that even if we had a different attitude than maybe the practice of the law, or perhaps the Civil Code, in return, I'd like to say that I resent that you've paired it with honesty. Hopefully, hopefully, you won't be able to repeat it again. But I'm returning your words to you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0413par0414	Peoples' Democratic...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0414par0415	Mr. President, I want to correct him for misunderstanding.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0413par0416	Pick on me if you want. We're on our way. Here you go. Don't frown at me from now on, I beg you. I beg you very carefully, don't frown.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0415par0420	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, orator doctor, we know that he's a friend that I really love. Especially when a lawyer knows he didn't mean it. Everyone knows that. There are rules of honesty in the Law of Civility, and there are rules of goodwill. That doesn't mean that you're dishonest or that I used that expression that way. There's a rule that's used by nature, there's a violation of the rules in good faith. These rules of honesty are a universal rule of law. It's not just the lawyers that need to know, it's everyone.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0416par0422	I mean, the rules you don't follow!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0415par0423	So, how did you take this rule so personally, you came up with something like this... and I'd like to say I'm sorry. I don't mean it like that. I said it would repeat against the rules of honesty. It's a universal rule of law, an abuse of a rule against good will. That's how I put it. Otherwise, Master, I'm sorry, I wouldn't use such a thing. And I'm obviously upset that you're taking it that way. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0417par0425	That is not the literal meaning of the word honest.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0418par0426	He fixed it. He loved it a lot.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0417par0427	No, he didn't make it clear. He said it didn't fit with honesty.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0418par0428	People...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0419par0429	Mr. President, look, when you have the right to take back the law proposal of lawmakers here in the Civil Code, it is you who are exploiting the Civil Code. It is only a manifestation of an abusive approach. He admitted to being an abuser.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0418par0430	I get it. Thank you. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0420par0437	Mr. President, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party, I salute you all. Really...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0421par0439	Mr. President, we can't listen to the preacher.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0420par0440	If they don't want to listen, you can take a break, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0422par0441	No, I'm not. Congressmans, please, if we could lighten the noise... Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0423par0444	We're talking about something important, guys. It's a bag of law. Anyone who doesn't know will think it's full, but it's not. Since the subcommittee, I've worked in the top commission, and I've divided it up like this. What's in it? The government's whole reason is one page. This is all part of the law proposals of opposition parties. The subcommittee report and the opposition you see -- again the opposition -- and again the evaluation is two pages. I mean, there's three pages in here, and the rest of the motions, they're the law, they're the bag. I'm burning up for the thirty-eight days we've spent in this bag, guys. Thirty-eight days, Saturday, Sunday morning, from one to two in the morning. I'm burning up in the two hundred and five hours we've spent. I'm hot for the applied mobbing. I'm hot for chores. You can't talk about business health, job safety, union rights and freedoms in this bag, friends, while all lawmakers, all ministry employees, all Parliament staff, are being forced to work like this on Saturday, Sunday, this blessed Ramadan day. Because after you've put so much effort into it yourself, after you've done mobbing on your staff, you can't go out there in another line of work, in another line of work, and you can't provide job security, occupational health. The council must first create its own job safety, its own occupational health, its own health, and the conditions for healthy work. I've been watching arguments for two days, and I feel sorry for you. Do you guys know how many million dollars an hour of parliament's work is worth? I mean, the way they argue that really doesn't mean anything, that doesn't mean anything. What's this way of arguing when we can talk about something so serious, the subcontractor's law, the 301 lives in Soma, when we can talk about the facts of the world when we can talk about them? Does it look good on us? I mean, really, I'd like it to be live, I'd like our people to follow us. Some of our people are watching from the Internet right now. But the comfort of this House, this luxury, where is it from? Look, it's empty, Congress, because there's no vote. Of course, anyone who doesn't want to hear it, doesn't want to hear it, unless they're interested. Look, we did an internal charter study, guys, and in this internal charter, we said, let's have a vote once a week. Everybody don't have to sit here. Let the interested come, let the curious come, let the expert come, and let this House work. He'll work with 10 people, he'll work more. Now, we've got a 61-point bill, and we've got 106 on the subcommittee. Then he came to the High Commission, and it was 128 articles. We have warned, we have warned the Speaker, and we have said, according to the 14th Amendment, it is your duty to oversee the Commission. In violation of the charter, the motions for the law are coming. The offer wasn't submitted to the Speakership, it wasn't transferred. And I didn't get lazy, so on July 7th, I went as you can see, and I got it in the letter, friends, and I gave it to the Speaker of Parliament and the Plan Budget Commission. My President, my Speaker, is the head of this House's inefficient operation because he didn't organize the commission's work, he was the source of the debate here. The article he sent me, after the Parliament report was discussed, was written by the Speaker of Parliament on July 15th at 18.45. The one who took the horse has crossed the province; the Speaker answers me when there is a discussion of the procedure here. One more thing upsets me. On July 11th, the Parliament Speaker says that when the Commission discussed the subcontractor system, I reviewed the July 11th report. Mr. Flower, how did you examine it? We were arguing on the Commission that day, there was no report. Moreover, the report was written on the 13th, and at twelve o'clock the final numbers were made, and the redacts were made. We got it digitally, and we put up opposition. You're 14. You wrote a letter to the President of the Commission at 00. You said, "I'm sending it back." The commissioner wrote an article and you sent it to the General Assembly. Can you answer that? Did you send this bag to the General Assembly? Did the Commission send it? The Speaker has to inform the General Assembly according to the Civil Code 14/6, but he doesn't. Look, guys, we've given you 30 pages of opposition, and we've explained our thoughts here, but I'd like to share with you a few very important topics. What does "torba" mean? There's no torba in the Civil Code, friends, there's a fundamental law in Article 91. The bag is the law, the law on different issues, if the Council of Counsellors, or four parties agree, but the AK PARTY, unfortunately, is using it badly. First, you did it on April 21st when you were an apprentice, and then you spent 163 substances there. Then, on February 13th, before the election, you passed another 234-point bag of law. Now that there's a presidential election, you're in the mastery phase, you're bringing in something of 148 items. Look, be careful, every one of them is like this for a semester. Now, do you, in fact, ignore this Civil Code and ignore the Constitution and think the House is in the bag, friends? Is that an understanding? Is there such a thing in the parliamentary system, folks? Now, can we call this bill the Soma bill? No way. There are three or five items about them, but the promises were not kept. The government must keep its promises in Soma. I invite the government here to keep their promises. If he's so curious, government, we have lists -- so -- they brought them themselves and made lists of the government's commitments. Let's remind you of a few: Friends, have you seen an inspection report on the Commission for 37 days? No. No one will be given an exit during this period. ▪ The wages will be fully paid, and there will be $2,000. There will be six salary bonuses. Yes, there are hours, there are weekly hours. There's a partial retirement age reduction. The dead miners will be considered civilian martyrs, but you haven't done that, my friends. In this bag of laws, under the Anti-Terror Code, you've put it into the status of those who died by accident. It's a shame! Look, this is outrageous! Don't do this! You're entitled under Anti-Terror Code 3713. What terrorist incident did he die in, 301 miners? If you're looking for terror, they died under the circumstances that brought them down 2,000 kilometers deep in that mine, brought them down with a desire for profit, tyranny and uncontrollable, unmanageable subcontractorial environment. Why, wouldn't you recognize civilian martyr status in this bag? I'm going... You didn't do it, you did it wrong, you didn't do it right. We've been suffering for thirty years, but believe me, the pain of profit is sometimes much more painful. Again, the death period would be tied, I promise 1,400-1. 500. FROM TOKI, we learned that a charitable employer wants to give a house. Again, official holidays, annual vacations, friends, all this stuff, and I was wondering, what are the kids getting, what are they paying for? I said bring a payroll. I got a payroll like this: "Work accident allowance to the sheriff, Rizgar, Rojda." You know, the worker's fate is neither identity nor religion nor religion, but they all share the same fate in life. $385.43 for the mother, 92.71 for the children, 92.71 for the child. Then I got interested, and another kid was 71.66; why is he lower? I tried to learn from the experts, to be honest, he tried to tell me, I didn't understand. And then I turned around like this, on top of all the pain, a kid with leukemia... So on top of all these traumas, these kids, these babies, if we're discussing all of our experiences so irresponsiblely today, if we're talking about this, if we're not talking about this, if this Parliament can't talk about this in depth, if there's no business safety talk, if there's no business talk, if there's no privatisation talk, if there's no privatisation, if there's no talk of privatisation in this bag, if there's no talk about the Constitution, if there's no question about the laws being a lawsuit, if there's a problem with the law proposal, if there's nothing going to be a problem with the law, if there's nothing going to be a problem with the law. We'll question each other.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0424par0463	We've been talking about this for a month.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0423par0464	No, we can't talk. If we can't convince each other, if we can't tell each other, then we can't, because the first-grader -- contrary to the Constitution -- knows that the Constitution does not change by law. If the MPs don't know about this, believe me... Guys, whose bag is filling up with this bag, and we need to look at it from that side. The laborer, the worker, or the company, or the employer that TKIH gave them, the sub-employees they gave them, the under-employees they gave them, the shortening of their bonuses, the shortening of their children's food, the shorting of their cables, the heat of that heat -- the disaster of the gray -- is stuck in that area, in that heat, in the heat, in the heat, in the heat that you can't predict that it's so bad that you can't predict it. Guys, believe me, I'm sorry, I'm wondering how to tell you this, how to tell you this. I've told you a lot about the shelter rooms here. I went to a mine, and I saw what kind of refuge there was in that mine, how they were protected for a long time, a month, in the dents, in the explosions, in the living room. Yes, that was all that was said in Soma. Oh, come on! We spent hours talking about the living room proposal in Soma, friends, even the Minister of Energy couldn't come. Oh, you've stooped to a living room! Yeah, you didn't want to build a living room, a living room, a sanctuary. Have fear of God, this day of Ramadan, what shall we talk to you about, my friends? We couldn't talk about privatisations wrapped in bags, contractors, partisan staffing, the forgiveness of capital, corruption, safe deposits, the incentive of black money, non-region, the destruction of workers' rights and freedoms, the removal of guarantees, the failure of judicial decisions, the absence of law. We called it the 138th article of the Constitution, and no one listened. We've told you: why don't you apply Sejdişehiri, ETI Aluminum, Kuşadasi Harbor, Balıkesir SECA, 14.76 per cent of TEPRASH, court decisions in favor of the sector? We didn't get your answer. You've built the plot. Metropolitan cities are 70 per cent of Turkey's geography. Forty-nine years rent, ninety-nine years even. In fact, the registration-- give it to your father's property -- the estate depends on you, the government -- whether it's a charity or a foundation, you give it to whomever you want. Istanbul's municipalities have beautiful cultural centers, friends, historical buildings. Give it to me, Dad. Give it to me. You've given ports, you've given forests, you've given the seas, you've given the oil, you've given the mines, you've built the thermal plants, nuclear plants, imported energy from all sides, doing what you want in this country. We have warnings to the understanding that the soma miner will be able to generate energy through the pain of the worker who came down the well in Şırnak, but we can't explain it. Look, guys, you're in the public domain, you're bidding on a bag of law. It's in the Constitution. You tried to change the Constitution by law. I told you, property rights are sacred - European Convention on Human Rights No. 1. Lu Protocol: Property rights, Constitutional Court- but you said no. Aggression... 39 HES, 5 dams in 2014 and 35 RES windwind energy- 41 energy transmission lines, total 165; you are entering the publicisation area in a hurry. For who? Aren't these laws special? Isn't it private for corporations, friends, to these institutions? Who are you kidding? Now the EPDK has decided on 65 of them. Also, DSI, TOKI, BOTAS, TSE, governorship, property... they're all doing it. There are transcripts of these. But we don't have time to go into these transcripts. You pay taxes on diamond jewels whenever you want, you remove them whenever you want. As long as you can. You took a hand with Risale-i Nur. Have fear of God, Saidi Nursi Norshin, you have rotted him in the dungeons, you have made him lose his grave. The jailer is now trying to become his heir and publish his book.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0425par0473	Mr. Hasip, who busted him?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0423par0474	The government can't print your book. The government can't print it, remember that. The state is a jailer, not an heir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0425par0475	He's protecting the real, the real...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0423par0476	That's how you see it. Money will be spent on the G20 summit, no bid, no control, for your pleasure. I swear to God, it's beautiful, guys, everything's free. One billion, two billion, spend it. Whose money? Your citizen. Now, you're seeing all the mistakes we've had in the sub-employee relationship, in the upper-employee relationship. Again, do not sell the help gathered at AFAD as official aid. Let's be clear, tell us who did this. Give me the paychecks. Look, you've pardoned safe deposit boxes, pardoned corruption. You did it wrong. The arrangements for lawyers are wrong. You can't postpone court decisions for two years. That's no law. You interfered with the Bar Association's Internship Act, and as if it wasn't enough, you removed your legal fees so that even this consumer panel of judges wouldn't look for their rights. What about this, guys? Again, you reduced access to the Internet from 24 hours to 4 hours. I think something's going to happen on the Internet. But know this: Don't call this bag the Soma bag bill. This bag is a bag of gonads. We will continue to oppose this bag. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0426par0485	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Now, I'm gonna take a break from the merger, but when we get back, Mr. Cetin will be your word right away, so let me remind you of him.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0427par0487	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit05spe0426par0488	I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0426par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 117th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The Commission and the Government are here. Ankara MP Izzet Çetin will now speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the whole bill. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0428par0007	Sir, before Mr. Izzet, the meeting is not enough. So if the MPs listen to Mr. Izzet, maybe they can change their minds, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0426par0008	Mr. Tanal, take an hour off if you want, for God's sake. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0429par0010	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I'd say it's a draft bill for amendments to certain Laws and Laws under Section 639, but I've taken a pledge on the Republican People's Party Group, whether it's a proposal or not. I salute you all. Dear friends, this bill was not even sent to the union confederates, even though it was widely discussed as a bag of laws before May, without pre-preparation, without the opinion of the social areas that would be affected by this bill. In fact, the largest labour unions' confederation, Turkish-İst, issued to their agencies on 14 May, the subcontractor's law, which we seized officially. On May 30th, this bill was sent to parliament in the evening hours, it began its talks on June 3rd, and the subcommittee was established on June 4th. In the subcommittee and the proposal, which began with 61 articles in the ongoing 38-day talks in the main Commission, came to the main Commission with 106 articles, and has now risen from 106 articles to 148+4+1=153. It's not clear what's going to happen here, what's going to happen here. Of course, his preparation was not well done. I said. In subcommittee talks, AKP's concept of majorityism has been effective in shaping the bill, and many times in the main Commission talks, the AKP has chosen to use as much of the majority as it can. None of the motions made by opposition parties -- I didn't bring the book because it was so thick -- were not handled as an offer, in accordance with the law proposals, which were filled with mistakes, but were translated into motions and the motions passed in the form of rejection, as if it had been processed, the bill was compiled into the book. Dear friends, this bill, known in public as the Soma law bill, was presented on May 13th in Soma (May 13th) to calm the situation as a result of our 301 miner's catastrophic murder, but unfortunately, the subcontractorial system was carried out in Turkey with this bill, not to restrain the escalation of the subcontractor system, but to restrain its subcontractor system. Not only did the subcontractor system be carried out, but the pollution of the AKP after 17 December 2013 and 25 December 2013 was also removed -- again, I regret to say -- from the bodies of miners. Neither the AKP nor anyone has the right to do so, nor does he have the authority. Because the death of the dead miners came here with a report of death. Fifteen days before that accident, our Manisa MP's speech here with our friend's helmet was rejected by the AKP's votes. The same understanding went on, on the subcommittee and on the main commission. Why did he drive? Because if the main purpose of the AKP was to correct the remains of those who died in the mine disaster in Soma, and to restrain the raging system, the three opposition parties had given separately on both the subcommittee and the main commission -- the materials related to the soma disaster, the subcontractor system -- we understand you 47 times, you've pardoned taxes, you've given bonus pardons, we've made a separate motion to get those pardons in three days. So here's the President, next to the President -- excuse me -- my friend and chief of staff, who I called Sergeant. The House bureaucrats, the Department of Labor bureaucrats, worked like that until morning. What's the big deal? Dear friends, if this bill really had intended to solve the problem of the children of the workers who lost their lives in Soma, the solution would have been covered from the general budget, from the tax dollars paid by 76 million of our citizens, our citizens who feel pain. What did the AKP do? The Turkish Penal Code, which was discussed here during subcommittee work, added a clause called Article 102, in the middle of the night, to the rights of those left behind, to the Unemployment Insurance Fund. The prime minister is shouting in the squares: we will give him two dwellings, we will do this. He acts as an heir who gives money out of the father bond by dismantling the so-called charitable citizens instead of welcoming him from the general budget. He has no right. Indeed, if the state of the Republic of Turkey is the democratic, secular, social law state written in Article 2 of the Constitution, then 301 miners must be able to support their remaining children, their wives. Now, you've shown who you're on your side again by just putting the unemployment fund of workers at a risk 76 million should take. Dear friends, despite all that -- and I'm saying without separating the three opposition parties -- we did not deny our support for the miners, for the Soma (sort of) work underground, for the positive arrangements for social security in the subcommittee, and we did not withhold our support for the main commission. There are small clippings about miners, but the accident was made only as if it had happened in Soma. The Soma workers, and those who lost their lives in Zonguldak. Those who lost their lives were arranged to not include the children of the miners who lost their lives in Şırnak. The goal is to calm the situation, to calm Manisa, and to move the goods as if you were doing something in the meantime. Dear friends, in this bill, in fact, we witnessed it being reduced to thirty-six hours before its working period -- and we supported everyone -- and then brought it back up to 45 hours with its motion. As a positive arrangement, we agreed that they should add four days to the annual permits of workers in the mines. We agreed to check their permits by the employer -- the books of the permit. It's not right that their work health and occupational safety measures should collapse to the sub-employee, but they've put it under the responsibility of the original employer, and we haven't said anything. Now, dear friends, in order to perpetuate the subcontractor system in all these matters, let the Council of Ministers be appointed to the sub-employee's work and sub-employee's job. The Council of Ministers also caught up with the three union confederacys, and the workers, the confederations of the employers' unions as accomplices. What did he do after that? Over five and a half years so far, the last one they collected on February 5th 2009 was to reduce their dams to 1... as a member of the Economic and Social Council, the union dams. By 2016, the dams, which would be 3 per cent by 2018, agreed to be 1 per cent, given to trade unions, such as a bribe. He also did one thing: this sentence is absolutely contrary to the Constitution: If you apply it to 3 per cent of economic and Social Council-member confederations for independent unions, you act against the principle of equality of the Constitutional Court, and it will come back, as the Constitutional Court 2 times 2. Another irregular arrangement: If the sub-employee has a collective contract and the union signs the collective contract with public employer unions, the union agrees to give the increase in wages as a price difference. The Constitution has a right to be a member of the unions, to be a member of the unions, which cannot be interfered with. It is contrary to the decree, which will also return. Dear friends, there is another tragedy: truly, nothing has yet entered the pockets of mine workers in the arrangements concerning the miners, concerning the workers in Soma. It didn't go into its pocket, but the militant commanders of the AKP, like this, almost... a sub-employee's admiration was born into them, so they called TİKİ, sir, before the arrangements were made, and we took the permits out of them four days from now on, and the minimum wage in the mines can't be less than twice as high as the minimum wage. We said, this cost, we have to give it to the SOMA Ash as a difference to the employers. My dear friends, no one has the right, I don't think the Grand National Assembly will accept such ill-willedness. Dear friends, indeed, this includes tax pardons, insurance premium pardons, customs pardons, loans to non-retarded citizens while working abroad, but there is no debt to citizens in the country who have one month, two months, one year, two years left, and who are short of bonuses, and who are still short of pensions in Turkey. Our citizens in retirement go to all lengths to announce their voices, not hear their voices. He was a taxpayer before 2000, but somehow he wasn't a BUG-KUR, so the tradesman who couldn't complete his premiums doesn't have the right to be in debt; he has as much as he wants to be out of the country! In this, dear friends, indeed, there is a transfer of funds to the sub-employee -- I repeat -- when the regulations for the miners have not yet been legalized. This includes an arrangement for privatisations in which laws will not be implemented to cover corruption in privatisation. In this, the vault is available, and the revenues that the company has acquired outside its main operating area, are legalized by 3 per cent of the $99,999,990 money transferred to TORGEV. It does not have the obligation to build a cable car for Melih Gökçek, Yenimahalle Şentepe, to build an altitude rights for publicisation or possession under the road, in the form of a tunnel or a rail system under the roads, or in exchange for publicisation, they have freedom, they have laundering. This includes changing the 15th article of the City's Law and writing the "arsa" instead of the "arsa," transferring the coasts, ports, forests, meadows, meadows, meadows, landscapes, cultural assets to third parties for no price or low price, and thus transferring them to TÜRGEV. Again, it involves walking on a long, thin road with parallel structures, and now our journeys have been parted, saying, "We are separated." If they banish officers, especially officers from law enforcement, and then go to trial after that, they ask for two years' freedom to pass judgment. Dear friends, this law was made on September 12, 1981, during the time of the Kenan Universe, especially about the appointment, the appointment of officers, the promotion, and the rights of self - control. Even the Kenan Universe has ruled that officers will be extradited within a month, while Recep Tayyip Erdogan's empire has passed a law that will restore him to his post within two years, but not the same duty, but a similar task, without a lack of pay, and a friction of the officer's nose. They didn't get enough, they didn't get the speed; they couldn't bring it up in the main commission. There are soldiers involved in the deployment, deployment and separation of military persons -- just like the police and high-ranking public officials -- to resist throwing them off as cotton and not returning them to their post two years later. They built the infrastructure for it. In order to prepare the infrastructure for this, there are 40 generals of the parallel media. They have laid down their infrastructure, saying, "Well, there are 40 generals of the Plan and Budget Commission," but our fellow members in the Plan and Budget Commission did not allow it, and we did not allow it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, really, there's the cost of opening up and selling university properties, especially the University of Hacettepe, in exchange for the debts of medical schools at universities. If the Prime Minister or the Council of Ministers makes any donation campaigns, the taxpayer can download it directly from tax, download it. Again, in this bill, there are 380 non-responsive positions under the name of the Prime Minister's monitoring and evaluation rapporteur. Where he will use them is unknown, and he has access to increase this staff up to 75 per cent. Dear friends, really, there are no workers, no officers, no peasants in this bill. They said, "We will heal the wounds of the system. We will heal the wounds of the miners who died in Soma.'" 46 million liras gathered, the Prime Minister explains. If this nation believed the Prime Minister and AKP's policies and attitude, their rhetoric and actions were one, they would have done anything in the form of a figure by now. You've lost your credibility. Up there, let alone us lawmakers, you've slaved everyone there, you've treated them like slaves. Dear friends, in spite of everything, this law is far from truly a fundamental law. If talks are being held here, it's due to the maturity of opposition parties. It is clear in Article 91 of the Civil Code which laws may be the main law. There's no right reason to bring in a freak who's changed the law of 74 laws or laws, which is not the basic law, and have him negotiate here in sections. Dear friends, really, this can't be the basic law. This bag of bills, my dear friends -- I draw the bottom -- has no principles, is not in line with lawmaking techniques, is not understandable, is not in line with the generality of the law. This bill has no rules, this bill has no morals, this bill has no integrity. Indeed, a bill imposed in very primitive ways is being imposed upon this nation as the law. No one has the right. Before I say my last words, dear friends, I'd like to read a paragraph to those who actually call it the law, to those who disregard the judgment, or rather rather, rather, I'd like to tell you that there are judges in Berlin. The sentence is a sentence known to everyone. I took a look at where this came from. King Friedrich the Great of Prussia sees a mill on a beautiful hill in the forest of Postdam, and calls the miller, and says to the miller, "Sell this place to me, and I will build a palace here. I'll give you twice as much money. No, I don't want to. He says: "I'll give you more." He says: "I'll give you more." He says, "I think you don't recognize me. I know, I know, I know." Well, you do, but why don't you? I take it by force. He says, "No, you can't take it by force. There are judges in Berlin." King Friedrich of Prussia had just reformed justice at the time, and he was so pleased that he said that even if the justice I created was against me, my people trusted him, there were judges in Berlin. I'll build this palace here... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] No one will wash this mill as long as the Kingdom of Prussia exists. I salute you all with the hope that it will set an example for your sense of justice.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0430par0048	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Recai Berber. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0431par0052	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group regarding the Constitutional Law of Business Number 639 and the Amendment to Some Laws and the Reconstruction of Some Acquisitions. I hereby salute your high council. Dear friends, the main Bill of Law (1/911), as most of the friends stated, was submitted to Parliamentary Presidency on 30/5/2014, and the bill was transferred to our Commission at the same time as the President. The Commission for Industry, Trade, Energy, Natural Resources, Information and Technology; Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission; Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission; Justice Commission as the main commission has been referred to our Commission. The notice that these commissions could not meet came to our chairman, and we shared all of this with our friends in our Commission. A subcommittee study has been launched, especially with the demands of our opposition parliamentary friends for more detailed and technical work on legislation proposals combined with the bill and draft proposals combined with the proposals of lawmakers from the 68 Republican People's Party, the proposal of the 26 National Party of Action MPs, and the proposal of 12 MPs from the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP). Dear friends, both in the lower commission and in the upper Commission, the lower commission held talks for approximately seven days -- forty-eight hours -- for 23 work days, and a hundred and fifty-seven hours. Even so, our friends were unable to speak in detail about this law, and we could not see each other. I regret to inform you that all of our concerned ministers have been found in our commission. 17 of our ministers, including Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan Bey and Emrullah Çes Bey, were present in our Commission, provided information and shared in the name of our government. Again, in the same way, when it comes to calling experts to apply for their opinion in the Commission... you know, in our Civil Code, we have experts from both public institutions and different institutions, and representatives of 22 different NGOs -- including unions and confederations. Regarding the amendment proposals: The amendment motions were discussed, not outside the members of the Commission, as those who could enter the Commission's meetings -- according to Article 31, part (2). Dear friends, a significant portion of these amendment proposals have been submitted to the Commission by our fellow opposition MPs, and some of them have been evaluated. The opposition MP friends have had about 360 motions, and 10 have been included in these 128 clauses, both in the form of change and in the form of substance abuse -- four of them in the form of substance abuse. So, first of all, after these information, with great dedication to our Commission... really, the Plan and Budget Commission is always doing the important work of our Parliament with their technical work, but this bag has done a very important work due to its bill and its proposals. I'm here to thank our friends with their power and their opposition, all of them. It's the work that came out of all of us. First of all, our friends, of course, said what they wanted him to do here, but they didn't. However, if we look at what's involved in this law in the headlines, dear friends, first of all, we need to know that this bill did not come from the Soma mining disaster by the Department of Labor. Our Ministry of Labor has made arrangements, preparations for working life for nearly two years, and I would like to point out, in particular, that the workforce, especially the representatives of the three major confederations of labor unions, has been personally involved in this law. With regard to working life, the regulations for job safety in a broad sense were already ready, but this law has been set up to provide the rights and resources of the relatives of our brothers and sisters who were victims of the mine disaster in Soma. Otherwise, as both our friends and the public say, this bill and its proposal is not a Soma bill, it's not a proposal. This law is about working life. This law has to do with the restructuring of certain public acquisitions, especially tax debts, and as some of our friends say, it's not about forgiveness.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0432par0061	Oh, come on, Mayor!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0431par0062	First of all, regarding the soma, about those who lost their lives in the mine accident in Soma, if you remember that the law would be delayed, we took it out and put it in the Penal Code immediately while they were being discussed here. We want you to know that in there, essentially, in the face of the risk that some of our workers don't get their wages, especially in the mine company, even if they don't get paid by the company, they're being paid by the company, and they've been given this arrangement to get it paid by our government, and it's been passed fast, and preparations have been completed, and -- we're happy to learn today -- that those workers will be paid by the firm they normally belong to on the 17th, while they're paid by the company that they work for, especially on the Eynez field, in the first part of that law. I'm saying it's for our fellow workers from that accident on the stove. In the same way...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0433par0064	Eynez...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0431par0065	On the Eynez field. And these payments will be paid by the state for six months, as stated in that law. Of course, friends here object, they say this is from the unemployment fund. Dear friends, half the unemployment fund is paid by the state. The payment from the unemployment fund is the same as what we pay our unemployed brothers and sisters. So, because of the unemployment fund as your source, it's not right to evaluate here as if it's being paid from somewhere else, from a charity, from a fund, above all.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0434par0069	It's not your money!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0435par0070	It's not your money, it's unemployed money! Let's get it out of the budget.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0431par0071	Dear friends, look, in the same way, all debts to the Social Security Agency of our fellow workers who have lost their lives are being expunged by this law. Thus, the barrier between taking a monthly death sentence and taking a monthly share of its relatives is lifted. Likewise, the requirement for 5 years or 900 workdays is lifted by this law, and it allows some 64 of our fellow workers to receive the death benefits of their relatives. In the same way, the requirement of need for miners to connect their parents to their parents monthly is removed. Again, this worker is provided for our brothers and sisters in Soma, directly as an opportunity for their relatives, if they have wives and children, or one of their brothers and sisters, to be employed in public. Again, we arrange for free housing for the legal heirs of our fellow miners. Our friends here, in particular, were, were, were, were, were, were, were, were, were, were, were, were, were, were, were, were, were, were, were, were, were, were, as a Somalı, a Manisa brother of yours, there was, there was, there was nothing like that in the Commission; there was, there was no such thing; this arrangement is being taken because of the fact that part of the land that would be assigned to the company that would be assigned, or to the company that would be removed from the forest, was a field that had lost its quality.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0436par0076	Not for them, for urban design, for urban transformation! Don't twist the subject!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0431par0077	So, somewhere else, Soma, it's about Soma, Soma, it's about Soma, it's just written there, it's about Soma, it's about Soma.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0437par0078	There's more stuff in there! There's an arrangement for pedestrians, barracks, meadows!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0431par0079	For him, dear friends, I mean, there's no mercurities, no forests, and then I want you to know that.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0437par0080	There's some editing material in there, too.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0438par0081	Tell me about the 115th article, the 115th article.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0439par0082	Tell me about the privatisation.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0440par0083	Besides, I just told you, it's not just for Soma, it's about all our mining brothers working underground, and you know that there are reformary arrangements.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0438par0084	Talk about urban transformation and development projects.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0440par0085	Look, guys, an important part of social security reform was about the retirement age of our fellow workers working underground. Retirement age has been moved from 55 to 50, and when we consider it, our underground workers will be able to retire at 43 years of age.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0438par0086	I will report you in forty trees, and I will report you in Soma.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0440par0087	Thus, this arrangement is not only for Soma, but also for TKI or TTK, but for all of our underground mining brothers. There are 50,000 mining workers underground in Turkey, 50,000. There are 50,000 miners all over Turkey, not 5,000 or 10,000 in Soma. In the same way, we did so with you, saying that our brothers who worked in the mines of lignite and stone coal cannot be less than two times the price of a hundred dollars.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0441par0088	You're not talking about Soma law. You're talking about Soma. You're just talking about Soma. I thought this wasn't an arrangement for Soma.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0440par0089	Dear friends, look, it has been specifically said here today that our fellow workers in Soma are coming to Ankara. There were promises made, and they were not fulfilled. I listened to this from everyone who came up here, but for the sake of God, one of them did not say which promise had not been fulfilled.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0441par0090	He'll say it, he'll say it, wait for it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0442par0091	Wait, he'll tell me.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0443par0092	Is that right? It's even written on the opposition.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0444par0093	Look, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0445par0094	We've been singing for 40 days, 40 days.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0446par0095	Read the opposition, the opposition.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0447par0096	It's all in the records.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0097	Dear friends, I was there, among those who promised. Thus, as all of the promises were made there, there were arranged certain possibilities, such as did not even come up, let alone the request, let alone the request of our fellow workers, who did not even think about it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0449par0098	Well, well, well! ▪ Don't even think about it!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0099	Yeah. Our fellow workers said that it's supposed to be the most important thing, and I'll tell you that: there's been a promise of 6 bonuses, what happened? Now, let me make this whole bonus thing clear. When representatives of our fellow workers came to Ankara to visit all groups, MPs, there was a meeting with our ministers at headquarters, our Faruk Çelik Minister, our Minister of Energy, and then a meeting with our Prime Minister. When asked about how much the average salary was paid to our fellow workers as a person in that meeting, it was said around £1,400. The fee for £1,400 is very low. This price has to be at least two thousand liras. Our prime minister said: "This has to go up to 2,000 liras in some way. This is only six bonuses, so if you pay 6 bonuses, then it goes up to 2,000 liras.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0450par0102	It's a shame!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0103	But right now, dear friends, yes, we're already making twice the minimum wage, and we're already raising it to over $2,000, and we're doing it legally.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0450par0104	Look, look! It's a shame. It's a shame.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0105	So, dear friends, here...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0451par0106	That's all there is to it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0107	No, no, friends, we have union brothers here who say that, union man. I'm saying, besides the collective agreement, where was there a bonus in the law?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0451par0108	Why do you promise?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0452par0109	What did you promise?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0110	There's a union here, this company. Where's his union, his union, where's the union? The union will go, my friend, and that's not enough for me. I want four bonuses, six bonuses. He'll say, and he'll get it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0453par0111	You don't understand, you don't understand!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0112	For him, dear friends, we have made a very important arrangement here.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0454par0113	You started the union.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0114	I'd like to thank all members of the Plan and Budget Commission. It was unanimous. It can't be less than twice the price. It's been said. Dear friends, same way, paid leave has been increased by four days.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0455par0116	There's no such thing, don't make us accomplices, don't make us accomplices!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0117	Dear friends, look, in the same way... Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, there are some issues being forgotten here. In the Law on Taxes, only the amount of time spent underground was an exception to the tax. We are now all exceptions to income tax, whether underground or above ground. My dear friends, they'll be paid in full. So...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0456par0119	It's an exception, bro! There's no income tax, and there wasn't any before you!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0120	Now, yes, yes. Now, why has it been 45 hours, 36 hours? Look, friends, miners will either work three shifts in Turkey or four shifts. If it's going to work three shifts, it's going to have to be 7.5 hours either way, and some mining businesses in particular have to work on the ground outside of the underground time. There's no way we can fit this study into six hours, so let's take a separate view of the work on the ground, and before we change the 36 hours of underground work, look, six hours...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0456par0122	It's already underground...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0123	Mr. Izzet, you know these things very well, you're an expert, but I don't know why you twist them, why you don't see them. Dear friends, these are the ages of underground mining in Turkey before and after May 13th, let's face it. Just as Turkey opened a whole new era in the housing sector after the August 17th earthquake, 13...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0457par0125	December 17, 25th, this is the millat.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0458par0126	December 17th.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0127	Look, after the August 17th earthquake...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0459par0128	No, there was a December 17th earthquake.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0129	What a gap, for God's sake! Dear friends, May 13th is so important that mining will now be held in Turkey by international standards and based on these principles.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0460par0131	Look, look, look!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0132	In this, we especially thank our members of the Commission, and we thank the experts of the mining sector; they guided, serious arrangements were made. Guys, again, there's a very important twist here. Dear friends, the most we've ever complained about is the subcontractor, and we're complaining. The subcontractors don't have severance, the contractors don't have permission, the contractors do business with the real employer, didn't we say that?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0461par0134	You created it, brother, you! Your powers created, the AKP created power!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0135	What do we do now? Dear friends, from now on, there will be no more subcontractors in the public or elsewhere regarding his original business. Yes, the law is very clear.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0462par0136	Revolution, revolution.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0137	The law is very clear.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0463par0138	The Council of Ministers decides.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0139	Friends, the Council of Ministers and the judicial decisions will also be taken into consideration.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0463par0140	Why didn't you bring the highways for the workers?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0141	First of all, friends, look, his own business is security...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0463par0142	What about the road workers? Why don't you proceed with the court order?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0464par0143	Mr. Yellow, please...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0144	...a firm with its own job to clean up, can't even run a contractor on security anymore, it's that obvious. So, basically, we're blocking the way to getting subcontractors to do their work, one. Secondly...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0465par0146	Where's it written?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0147	You'll see if you can get a look at it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0465par0148	We're looking into it. Can you tell me where it's written?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0149	At the same time, these people will be employed for at least three years, not a year as they used to be. If the actual employer doesn't pay the severance fee, the real employer will be responsible if his fees are paid. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Friends, such subcontractorship...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0466par0152	Better than being an officer? Then let's subcontractor the civil servants, subcontractor!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0153	Guys, the contractors even have a union, what more do you want? He's even been given his union rights. Thus, it would be wrong to call it "tashion" today; it is completely, literally, a service; it is a system that is completely, literally, a system that has to be taken from the outside. This subcontractor period is history in Turkey, and with this law, the subcontractor business is over, friends, and I want you to know that.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0467par0154	My lord Berber, I will make you listen to this speech tomorrow at fortykret, and in Somah.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0155	Dear friends, look, there's nothing for the public here in Turkey. What's in the bag, what's in the bag, what's in the bag, what's in the bag, what's out there... Isn't this the commission that pays off 35,000 teachers?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0468par0156	They don't see it, they don't see it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0467par0157	Why not 100 grand, why?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0158	If you love God, you'll get 100 grand, my friends.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0467par0159	We'll get him out in 2015.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0469par0160	Mr. Pine, please...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0161	First of all, dear friends, I want you to know that the law and social security have been made very important arrangements. In the beginning, especially according to the number of children, we were able to borrow money especially for our women in retirement. Therefore, in Turkey, there are homewives or working women...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0470par0162	I already had it, I already had it! What have you got?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0163	Please... don't say there was an increase in number, an increase in time. These are the ones that were present during social security reforms in 2008, and with the work of our Minister, this Parliament and the EC PARTY government did all the work that existed. None of this had ever happened before, none of this had ever existed, friends.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0470par0164	We gave you the bill a year ago, and you brought it in this bag.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0471par0165	No, no, no.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0166	For him, dear friends, we want you to know that the most important issues brought with this law are all of the record. So we have some of the motions here that we believe are in Turkey's best interest again, and that we believe are directly relevant to our commission.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0472par0167	How does it matter, and tell me, what does it matter?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0448par0168	Yes, it's very important. Friends, by court order, by the Supreme Court's decision, it's called "ficial impropriety," you say: "Take back these shares, these privatisations." Before, these privatisations were cancelled by the Privatisation Supreme Council's decision, it wasn't rescinded. It was called, and now we're doing the law, and now you're objecting. Therefore, I wish our country well, since this law must be passed at once and includes the arrangements needed in many areas of Turkey. Please, I believe we should bring this to Turkey as a holiday gift, before this law goes as far as the Commission. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0473par0173	We said earlier, one day, one day... we said, "Let's take it out in a day, let's get it out in a day, let's send it out in the morning."
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0474par0174	Mr. President, I'm sorry. He just said, "Sir, we've arranged for subcontractorship, we've removed subcontractorship." I said, "I can't find it." He said, "Read it." Mr. Secretary is here, and the President of the Commission is here. Can they tell us the clause, where's the subcontractor? Let them tell us the matter.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0475par0176	Yes, thank you. On behalf of the individuals, Mersin MP Mr Vahab chooses.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0476par0179	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Indeed, Mr. President, Mr. Barber, when I listen to you, the employees, the staff employees, who are watching you on the television screens, they'll probably leave the staff as subcontractors because of the praises you've set up. For God's sake! I wasn't going to start with that, but Mr. Minister has a statement after the Soma accident: this is an exploitation order, and we're going to eliminate it. But now, I see you've done the regulations, the public tender period for three years; you've held the real employer responsible for his salary, severance pay. But now there are 600 thousand subcontractors working in public, totalling about 1,200,000 subcontractors. The rest of them work in the private sector, some 600,000 of them. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary where their safety lies. Now, dear friends, once this law came to the Commission, the violation of the basic law of the Civil Code was discussed here a lot. He really came to me as Soma, but this bill put the Commission in a coma.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0477par0183	Bravo!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0476par0184	Thirty-eight days, hours, night and day... we don't prevent, of course, the responsibility of the people, the responsibility of the nation, their trust is upon us, of course, we will work, if we must not sleep, but now we must fear God. Now, let's see what we've done. The original 61-matter text, Mr. Irony, was 106 articles; then 128+1 supplements, 149 articles.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0478par0186	They need it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0476par0187	Now, it's not enough, but yes, subcontractorial arrangements, not enough, but yes. Look, now, you've reconstructed public purchases. Who opposed the pardon before the opposition? Mr. Finance Minister disagreed. So, I asked Mr. Finance Minister, and I said, "Is this an election bribe, friend? This bill smells like populism?" He said: "Yes, it's an election arrangement. You can get it out of the books." Now, we say, please, let's be sincere. You'll remember the September 12, 2010 referendum, where we have friends who served at the time. There, the HSYK and the Constitutional Court arrangement had a different meaning, and the 24 articles placed next to it had a different meaning. It's the same now. Look, in the final form, there's a 100th article in the bill. This is what you later consider a gang of public officials in the Law of Adjudication... which you later consider to be the fall wind leaves that you're going to throw away, or you're going to throw away court decisions, and then you're going to say, two years later -- well, somewhere else -- you're going to say, "Well, let's give it to another organization, but let's give it to another organization." It's an arrangement. There's a privatisation arrangement, and it's very important, and it's delivered to the address. Five of Turkey's respected institutions, the savings of the 90-year-old republic, the rights of our unfinished children to one-fifteenth of our tax dollars, seeded, irrigated, plowed, fertilized, diversified, plowed facilities sold. There is SECKA, Balıkesir SECA; Sejdişehir Aluminum; there are ports; there are Kuşadas; there is Ceşme Harbor; there is 14,76 shares of TÜPRAS. Now, he's in a situation where, look, the judge decides to stop the execution, but he can't stop the AKP. It stops everything, the judiciary cannot stop the AKP. Now, there's a restraining order on both regulations, there's a restraining order, there's a Constitutional Court decision, and yet you're making arrangements. Now this arrangement is very good, so let us contribute. Indeed, the rights of the miner, who was a martyr in Soma, are waiting for different segments of society, different socioeconomic classes, his worker, and soma. Come on, let's not see these toxic substances. Pardon me, we can't carry water into your mills, it's not obstruction. I also resent Mr. Canikli. We've had this discussion in the Commission, review the transcripts. We said: "Please remove Soma, take out the arrangements for working life, redesign the tax-related, public-receivement, or take out the arrangements that society is really looking forward to, and get it out of here as soon as possible. So let's finish what's missing, make our contribution, get the General Assembly legalized. There's no separation here. But, these laws that I've just passed... look, now, I'm sorry, we can't help some of your political savings. You're making a law on Nursing Risales. Now, that's...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0479par0194	Where is it?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0476par0195	No, where did that come from? Was it too urgent?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0480par0196	So we ask, "Where did he come from?"
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0479par0197	Which one?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0476par0198	Sir, where did this come from? So, now you're going to monopolize this...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0479par0199	What substance?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0476par0200	There he is, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0479par0201	Where? Does it say "Nur" there?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0476par0202	The regulation of the Law on Ideas and Arts is here. What does this have to do with urgency? Now, the meadows... look, they said: "In Soma, the benevolent citizens will build a dwelling." Let him do it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0481par0204	I need room in Soma.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0476par0205	There are treasures out there, out in the forest, fields that are no longer considered a forest in science and science, so let's do it there; you brought them here, you put them there. Our objection is... that's what Mr. Cetin is objecting to, we've just removed it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0482par0206	115, 115...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0476par0207	Look, there's 115. It's about the mera.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0483par0208	We got Mera out of there.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0476par0209	Under the decision of the Council of Ministers, you are taking measures for urban transformation and development projects. Now, I told you in the Commission the other day: what do you want with the Mera? Turkey's mera presence has dropped to 10 million hectares, and livestock is over. Now, I read in the paper today, again, the Department of Agriculture imports pre-season animals. Why are you importing it? Because you've finished your animalism in Turkey, you're opening up to the construction of the merch, and you're doing it by the decision of the Council of Ministers. Now, dear friends, we object to that. Otherwise, sir, there are things that society is waiting for, and you're blocking them. We work for the good of the country, for the benefit of the citizen. The relatives of the survivors in Soma, the relatives of the martyrs, are waiting for this arrangement, but the Republican People's Party or other opposition parties are blocking it. My dear friends, now, look, the 112th article and the 115th article must be removed from this bill, as well as the regulations concerning the Executive Judicial Law. If we don't want these studies to go any further, let's just get them out of this, and we'll get the other laws that come out with our contributions, and we'll get the laws that society wants. Now, this Executive Judiciary Act is very important. The regulations here include the Constitution 125, Constitution 138, which is ignored, bypassed. Again, a newspaper report: In many ministries, public top executives in particular have been exposed to relocation. Now, if that's the case, if you make a change in the Executive Judiciary Act, then Turkey is about 317.911 -- the number we got from this Ministry -- you're going to pick up our officer from wherever you want, you're going to send him to the administrative court, he's not going to get a decision to stop the administration. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And if this decision were to be revoked from the court, you'd say: "The old pines have become cups." I used to put you in the same public office in 30 days, but now I have the right to give you the same job in two years. [[!]] I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0484par0220	Thank you, Mr. Chosen. Mr. Faruk Çelik, Minister of Labor and Social Security. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0485par0223	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We are at your disposal with proposals, with a very comprehensive bill, which is primarily related to those who lost their lives in the Soma disaster, which includes a large part of our society, which includes very important regulations, which are shaped by the contributions of social parties and lawmakers during the commission.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0486par0225	Harar is the law, hara.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0485par0226	The bill includes regulations that entered the operating areas of many of our ministries and envisioned changes in about 70 laws. I want to make it very clear that right now, our nation's eyes and ears are in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I also want to stress that our nation is looking forward to the adoption of this bill before the end of the year. I'm in the belief that my fellow ministers will do what they need to know about their field when the articles in the bill are discussed. I'd like to give you a general statement on the bill, and on the matter that concerns my Ministry in private. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have made very important reforms in the field of work and social security within 11 years, with your contributions. Important reforms have been made, such as the Employment Law, social security reform, general health insurance, policy arrangement, employment packages, incentive practices, collective contracting rights to officers, the Law on Business Health and Safety, Trade Unions and Community Contracts Act, and almost all of our very important parts of our society. However, as you know, social life is a process of rapid change and transformation. For example, since 2002, there have been 7 million in active insurance and 4 million in passive insurance. To adapt to this change and to respond effectively, efficiently, and quickly to the expectations of our society, there is also the necessity to regulate our legislation to respond to the needs of the age and to those demands. So the dynamic of our legislation should not be behind the needs and changes of social life. Of course, the public's expectations include a certain amount of responsibility not only to governments or parliament but also to NGOs, social parties and trade unions. This makes it necessary for all actors sitting on both sides of the table to approach problems in a particular line of work and responsibility. Instead of routine meetings where only fees are discussed, there should be a visionary perspective on every field, working and social security life, from occupational health, social security rights, unemployment reduction and employment-enhancing measures, to policies that protect employees' rights and boost our country's competitiveness. The world is one day, and that's today. Instead of understanding, contributing to long-term policies that reflect the future of our country is a situation where social dynamics should be sensitive. Here, we call him 2023, we call him 2053, we call him 2071. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in all this work we're doing, we're acting with an understanding that is based on social dialogue and is looking at the expectations of society. Here, our friends are insisting on some issues, and I especially want to say that these arrangements, the arrangements for working life, the arrangements for social security, are not the arrangements that came out after the Soma incident. If you share this with social parties, you'll find that there are arrangements that we've been working on for three years. So, this bill contains very important regulations that respond to the expectations of our society. Therefore, I think we should focus more on content than on the number of substances. The section of the bill concerning the SGK is interested in about 15 million businesses and the insurance holders for 100 billion euros. To this end, insurance premiums, social security benefits premiums, administrative fines, general health insurance premiums, the difference in construction and tenders, and bonus debts are structured. In this case, delay hikes and delay sentences are completely expunged in the case of general health insurancemen paying the principal of their debts in advance. In addition to that, the main currency TÜFE is updated by expunging the penalty and the delay increase in advance payments. Instead of paying in advance, our citizens have been given a maturity margin of 6, 9, 12 and 18 installments, and the installments are paid every two months. Dear lawmakers, especially after the Soma disaster incident, our friends have expressed here what was involved in the bill, but I want to make it clear to the issues presented here as a conflict, as if the promises had been made and were not fulfilled. We met with our fellow workers, we met at Manisa. We met at our party headquarters in Ankara. I'd like to say that whatever we promised them in our evaluations with them, we've done all of that. I'm not saying this because our friends have expressed it here, but I'd like to say that we've given the same rights to civilian martyrs to those of our brothers who lost their lives in Soma. Other issues: Sir, the workplaces, the stoves are closed... the stoves are closed, correct. The inspection is now in progress. We have also made arrangements to help them and to help the employer until the closed furnaces are opened. Dear lawmakers, one of the important parts of the bill is the subject of subcontractorization. Of course, it's possible to say long, long, long things about this, but I simply want to say that the application of the subcontractor is not today's practice, but an app that has existed since 1936. During this period, I've said so many times when I've come together with both social parties from this platform and I need to say, there's a sense of joy here, there's a troubled atmosphere here. We said that this atmosphere, this painting, has to be eliminated for the exploitation of labor. We've done a lot of work for him with the sides.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0487par0234	Mr. Secretary, he's stuck in a one-party period, and you're continuing this subcontractor procedure?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0485par0235	Now see what we've got, what we're bringing... if you'll excuse me. Take a look at the sub-employee, which can be carried out within Article 2 of the Employment Act, such as for a technological reason or for expertise or, in the case of the job, service will be carried out on the three conditions required. There'll be other... help-in-the-art services. We're going to set these assistant jobs up as the Council of Ministers, then there's no need to change, there's no chance. They will be determined, and after that, all work life, except for matters in the 2nd article of the Employment Law, and all aid work, will take place as the real worker. Now, what do your friends come out here and bring you about the application of Yahu subcontractors?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0488par0237	We already have, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0489par0238	The real employer is the public.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0485par0239	No...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0488par0240	Oh, no, you already did.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0485par0241	Now, look, there's another regulation in the law that says that you were hired as a cleaning worker, and you were able to work elsewhere. The law says: "No, if your contract is a cleaning job, you have no employment other than a cleaning job." Look, in one place in my speech, all the joys here are being removed.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0490par0242	Well, it was, and it's in practice.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0485par0243	We've brought up the severance here several times. In implementing severance, the current compensation required 12 months, 12 months of work, but the sub-employees were deprived of it for 11 1/2 months; we placed this arrangement here. Now, our subcontractors' severance issues have been eliminated, the public is restituting this, they will be compensated by the institutions they work for. In addition, we bring organizational, collective agreements, and the differences that will result in the result of collective agreements will be paid to our sub-employees. He was having trouble with the yearly leave. They're entitled to their annual leave of absence with this arrangement. The security of the fees... says the sub-employee: I didn't pay it. When he didn't pay it, he was wasting time searching for the rights of the worker and finding a sub-employee to examine his situation, his accounting. If the sub-employee and his financial size and his pay-size problems are unresolved, we blame the real employer for solving them. The tenders require three years. In three years, of course, I'd like to point out that there's been a very important change in both business guarantees and organisation. Dear friends, we've made important arrangements in social security as well as subcontractor applications. In this area, we raise the number of children who can be borrowed in terms of women's insurance, from two to three, and from four to six years of debt. We also give birth debts to women from BUG-KUR, and women from BUG-KUR, who have not left due to childbirth and have never returned to office. For those of us who can't have children, we increase the number of test-tests provided by the SGK from 2 to 3. We give our blue-carded expats, who have come out of Turkish citizenship with permission, the right to borrow their time as Turkish citizens abroad. We consider the date when our residents first started working in the contracted country to be their starting date in Turkey, and we allow them to retire earlier. In order to increase the competitiveness of our employers working abroad, we reduce the insurance premium ceilings by 3.5 times the minimum wage. We're preventing the insurance from being cancelled due to uninsured log overrides in the escrow and agricultural room records. So, the pensioners' pensions will be reconnected. We're leaving people who belong to gay businesses, who don't exceed 100 euros in debt. We're giving our 5,300,000 citizens, who have been awarded a bonus due to not taking the income test, six months to take a revenue test. We extend the application time of the loan to those who return to the force by taking advantage of the disciplinary pardon. We're facilitating the insurance of women who work for home services for more than ten days, making the insurance of less than ten employees optional. We're forming the chairmanship of the Centre for Education, Research and Development within the SEC. Since business and occupational advisors have taken over the staff, we're removing the decline in their monthly, bringing a 360-treasure improvement to their wages. The provision for leaving 65-year-olds and disability pensions found to be paid inadvertently is provided. Admissions to the rooms and rooms of our tradesmen and artists are being upgraded to union and federations, and to the union federations, to the confederations, and to the interest of their participation debt, while the principal money is being upgraded to TEFE-FE. Confiscation of tax debts, tax fines, property and environmental cleaning taxes is being carried out. The Council of Ministers has been authorized to provide housing and rights for the districts of Artvin-Yusufeli and Denizli-Acipayam. 35,000 teaching staffs are covered. In accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, it is part of the bill to ensure that officers who have been suspended from running as candidates or suspended from further progress will not be relieved of their duties. Many other arrangements, as you know, are included in this bill. Maybe I'll mention some areas in particular as the episodes are discussed, but finally, I'm saying that subcontractor practice is definitely not popularized, it's disciplined, and a very serious number of reductions are being made. 660,000 subcontractors are now in public. So we're going to say this number right here, and we're all going to see how many numbers it goes down to in the next term. In addition, the mandate of the public-employee union regarding collective agreements is: our goal is to ensure that the contractors can get a collective contract here. There's nothing more natural than having a public employer, who, of course, will have an employer. Finally, as you know, the Plan Budget Commission was considering this bill, while the shelter room and so on were being discussed. We had a consensus there with our friends and the opposition. This arrangement is much more accurate because there are many sectors, the mining sectors are very diverse. If you make an arrangement for each of the mining sectors in the law, it is not possible, nor is it not true, in terms of legal regulation. That's why we told the Council of Ministers that we would make a change in the Employment and Safety Charter in Mines, and that we would send the amendment to the Prime Minister's Office as the law was discussed in Parliament. As of yesterday, we've made this change, and we've sent a new arrangement to the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister, about the explosions that may occur in coal mines and the arrival of workers who face carbon monoxide poisoning on foot to the mask and health centers and the ability to take new equipment from these health centers and come back to the ground. Hopefully, I'm stressing here that it's also important that it's approved and in effect soon. My deepest regards to all of you, I wish to return to you in the episodes.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0491par0269	On behalf of the individuals, the last word belongs to Mr Selçuk Özdağ. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0492par0272	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the entire bill of the Law on Business Law 639, and on the amendment of certain Laws and Laws, and on the restructuring of some Acquisitions. I salute you all. It is of great importance to our nation, with this 148-point bill, with great changes and innovations in it. This bill, which directly and indirectly concerns about about about 20 million of our citizens, provides a solution to the issues that are pending, the victims are being stabbed, and many issues are being dealt with. The reason the law is made is because of the social needs that bring life to these laws. Laws exist to maintain the existence of society regularly, and society's peace, its comfort, its solution to its problems. Laws, which are the answer to any problems in society, also serve the dignity of the political institution. The bag of laws, which naturally consist of 128 articles, also came to life as a result of such a need. Of course, there are different views in democracies. As with every issue, there will surely be criticism in this bill, where we begin our negotiations. The right to criticize and dislike is also a democratic right, but not every criticism and dissatisfaction is meant to meet the demands of society. This bill we're talking about is based on needs and expectations. Protected is the law of our people. The allegations that certain parts have been broken are unregistered. The bill makes serious changes in social security, union rights, education, health, working life and so on. Under this bill, important financial and social rights are brought to our workers who work underground, especially under the problems of our citizens who were victims of the mine accident in Soma. With the law, social security, BUG-KUR bonuses are being rearranged, and people who are unable to benefit from social security because of their failure to pay their debt are being given a chance again. The insurance premium, which was not paid for April 2014 and the previous months, will be waived from the collection of all of the purchases, such as tariffs and delay hikes for those recipients, in the case of the payment of pensions, unemployment insurance premiums, social security premiums. The penalties and customs tax debts of those who failed to get a car examination on time are also covered by restructuring. With this arrangement, the citizens will pay their premiums more easily and the government will collect the premiums they can't collect. Dear lawmakers, thousands of our women who work in households, such as cleaning or babysitting, are covered by social security. More than ten days of hard work will now have mandatory insurance. Such an arrangement should be appreciated to ensure that these people look to the future with hope. What's wrong with taking these people under the protective wing of the state? From the beginning, our philosophy is the government that is integrated with its people. All these steps will also strengthen the feelings of our people's belonging. On the other hand, arrangements such as hiring hired officers, making it difficult for senior officials to return to their previous duties, aim to make public services quickly, quickly, and effectively. From now on, the executive body won't waste time with officers, courts, who've been there 10 times, and there won't be any such persecution.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0493par0279	Teacher, tell me how! Hodja, tell me how you're gonna do it!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0492par0280	The main thing is that the execution works quickly and meets the citizens' expectations.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0494par0281	Tell me about the rent-a-cop!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0492par0282	If there's a mistake in the law, you go to the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court makes the necessary arrangements, comes back here. That's what the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is for.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0495par0284	What's with the Supreme Court, Supreme Court!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0492par0285	Then I say to the opposition, opposition, look, we're in power, we're doing it. Work hard, work hard, be strong, come change what we do, make the Turkish community happy.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0496par0286	As you command!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0492par0287	By what we've done, this nation has made us in power eight times, we'll send the President to the mansion in the 9th election, and we'll get a prime minister out of all of us and we'll win our 11th election, you'll see, we'll do that, too.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0497par0289	Teacher, remove the courts then, remove the courts!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0492par0290	Dear lawmakers, after referring to brief headlines on what the bill covers, I would like to open up a little bit about other workers working underground, especially for the Soma mining disaster and for the mine workers on all four sides of our country. In 2010, a research commission was established in this Parliament, the Commission for Research of Mines and this Commission worked for four months, and filed a report with the alliance of all parties. Then our President gave a post to the State Control Board, and they worked, and they filed a 567-page report, and they went to Parliament. In 2012, this Parliament created a new law, and organised the Law on Occupational Security and Occupational Health. In the world's laws of this law, among the European laws, there is no delay in the laws of Australia, but these laws, unfortunately, have not been enforced by some people. From time to time, it has not been implemented by employers by the representatives of trade unions or trade unions, inspectors and bureaucrats who are also on duty from time to time. You make good laws, they can be bad in the hands of bad people. Sometimes, you make short laws from time to time, but in the hands of good people, it can be good. Here is the law that we have passed, unfortunately, that has proved to be a bad result in Soma. Hopefully, from now on, there will be a generation. Mr. Recai Berber, President of the Plan Budget Commission, has just told us that just as the August 17th Lake earthquake is a millennium in Turkey's construction sector, on May 13, 2014, hopefully, there will be a line on mines and heavy laborers from now on.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0498par0293	What year is that?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0492par0294	Important changes are being brought in to organise employers-altar employers' relations because of its interest in mine workers. Employers will be obliged to check the resins monthly on whether their employees' wages are paid if they employ a sub-employee, and to deposit them into the workers' bank account by cutting them from their rights if they are not paid. Senior compensations will be transferred to the employee's bank account by the last public institution and institution where he was employed, and you will be paid from the budget arrangement and from the expense pens to see if the severance fee is sufficient. In addition to the mandatory and extraordinary conditions, underlying mining workers will not be given much work, and if overwork is done, a 100 per cent increase will be paid. For underground mining workers, the maximum working period will be thirty-six hours a week, the daily working period will not exceed six hours in the ground, and annual paid leaves for workers will be held in the form of eighteen, twenty-four, and thirty days off. The pension rights of underground mining workers will be reduced from 55 to 50, and they will be reduced to 43 years old, with their share of weariness. Any debts from the insurance people who lost their lives in the mine disaster in Soma will be expunged, and you will be required to pay premiums to the rights holders tied to the death income. One of the spouses or children of those killed in the mining accident will surely be employed in government offices, and this arrangement will be valid as of May 13, 2014. The minimum wage will not be less than twice the minimum wage for workers who work in mining places where lignite and stone coal are extracted. The minimum wage is 941 liras, 2 times $1.882 liras, and from New Year's, it's going to be over 2,000 liras, but someone's going to bring it up by saying it wasn't 2,000 liras. And they're going to consider it an opposition, and they think it's opposition, and I'm going to give it to the public. The amount that has been paid to families in Soma. The money collected by the AFAD so far is 46.5 trillion liras per family, and the death of each family is 154 dollars per family for the deceased, 301 brothers and sisters. $450 will be paid. Each family will be delivered by the Birthing Group, as well as by the Gaziantep Organised Industry, with two houses built. The Turkish Football Federation is there. At the same time, Soma Sports is there and the Ministry of Youth and Sports is there, building new facilities, trying to redesign social life and social life. The village of Darkale is being tried for tourism. There are new mining investments, and the mine investments here will be fully mechanical, where 5,000 people have worked, doing the same thing as 800 people, and maybe getting in the way of fatal accidents. Dear lawmakers, here at Somah, at the same time, there has been another tender for a thermal plant; it costs 1 quadrillion liras; it will be completed within five years, and there will be 3,500 people working here. Manisa is an agricultural area. Manisa is also an industrial region, a tourist area, an educational area, a cultural area, a historical region. We're building new organized industries in Manisa, just like in Akhisar, four more in Salihli, like in Turgutlu. And we've also done another one in Manisa, the 6th district, and we've done the same in Soma, three months ago, and from now on, our workers, our miners, will not only work in the mine; they'll work in the ER, they'll work in the SAAS, they'll work in the new thermal plant of the Kolin Group, and they'll work in the organised industry. I told you that the Ministry of Youth and Sports is there, and our 5,522 citizens working at Eynez will receive their wages from the government for six months. If the lights and the horse's chimney don't work, my brothers' wages will be paid for three months. Whatever we have promised, we have made every promise to our brothers and sisters, our government and our government. I say good luck to my brothers from here, thank you to our Prime Minister, thank you to all the members of the Plan and Budget Commission, thank you to the ministers. I hope with this bag of legislation we're going to pass, I wish that this law will be a blessing to 20 million people, and that it will be a blessing to all of us.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0499par0308	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0500par0310	Mr. President, Mr. Hatip Soma has stated that 46.5 trillion aid has been given. This help is the help of our beloved nation. We give thanks to the members of our entire nation who have done so. Therefore, this did not go from the party pouch or the Prime Minister's pouch. They owe people a thank-you. It's people's help. I think he forgot to thank everyone, but he brags about it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0501par0311	Mr. President, I want to thank our people. Yes, that's true, but designing the help that people have done requires an organizational ability.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0500par0312	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0501par0313	So, I thank our government, and I thank our nation. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0500par0315	From the purse of the hand... Did you guys do all this? Our people gave it to us.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0502par0316	One apologizes, one apologizes.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0503par0317	Members of parliament, there are two motions made by the bidders for the rescinding of two proposals from law proposals combined with the proposed bill. I'll have them read it in order and vote for you. No regulation has been made regarding our legal proposal, as it is not required by Article 26 of the TBM Civil Code on the 2/1797 original Law Proposal, page 234 of the Law Bill 639. We would like to ask for a retraction of our proposed law, which is included in the bill, which is mentioned for the specific reasons. Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetist Movement Party Group Chair İzveli İzmir MP Oktay Ökal; Ankara MP İzzet Ceçalin; Tekirdağ MP Candan Düçüker and 3 MPs; İstanbul MP Mesut Dedeoğlu and Milliyetı Movement Party Party Party Party MP Sadir Durmaz and Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Diyarbakır MP Mehmet Siyamoğlu; Mehmet Siyamoğlu and 4 MP Merın MP Merınını MP Mesakı; Şeşımı MP Çakı MP and Akçıkı MP Şaşı MP Şaşı MP Şaşııı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı Akçı Akçı Akçı MPı MPı MPıı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıı MPıı MP and Akçı Akı MPı Akı Akı Akı MPı MPı MPıııııııı MPııııı MPı MPı MPı MPıııııı MPı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııııı MPıııııı Akı Akı Akı Akı MPı Akı MPı MPı MPıı Akı Akçı Akı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPı MPııııııııııııııııı MPı MPı MPııı MPı MPı MPıı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıııııııı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıı MPıııııı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPııı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııı Akı Akı Akı Akı Akıı
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0504par0328	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0503par0329	There's a motion for roll call before you put the offer to your votes. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Demirçebi, Mr. Elector, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Pine, Mr. Kuyoğlu, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Ören, Mr. Ören, Mr. Öğütı, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Öz, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Aygun, Mr. Kokturkk. I'll give you two minutes, start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I propose to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I submit to your votes the motion to take back the offer: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. There's another motion to take the offer back, so I'll have it read and processed. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey İzgat MP Sadir Durmaz and MHP Group MP Oktay Düzal; Kahramanmarash MP Mesut Dedeloğlu and MHP Group MP Oktay Dukal; Democratic Party (CHP) MP Oktay Ökkalıoğlu and MH Group MP Oktay Ökal; Democratic MP Mustafa Kalajcı and MP Mşkı MP and MP Mşkısın MP Mşkısın MP and MP Mşkısın MP Şaşı MP Şaşı MP Mehmet Mşınısın Akçısın; Democratic Party MP Mehmet Mşınısın and Mehmet Mşıkısın MP İsın MP Şaşinı MP Şaşinı MP Mehmet Mınıkı MP İsın MP Şa Şaşı MP Şaşıkıkı MP Şaşıkıkı MP Şaşı MP Şaşımı MP Şaşı MP İsı MP İsı MP Şekımımı MP İsı MP Şaşımı MP Şaşı MP Şaşı MP Şaşı MP Şaşı MP Şaşımımımımımımımımımıkımımıkı MP Şaşımımımımımımımımımı MP Şaşımımımı MP Şaşı MP Şaşı MP Şarı MP Şaşı MP Şarı MP Şarı MP Şaşımımı MP Şaşımı MP Şaşımımı MP Şaşımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımılı, and Akıkılı MP Şı MP Şı MP Şı MP Şı MP Şı MP Şımımı MP Şımı MP Şı MPŞ MP Şımısısımımım
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0505par0350	He's not reading it right. [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Burdur MP Bayram Özçelik]] ..Istanbul MP Durmusali Torlak and MP Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır and 1 MP... He's not reading the names right, he's reading them by jumping, Mr. President. Mesin MP Ali Öz and MHP Group MP Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır and 1 MP; Osmaniye MP Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu and MHP Group Chair Mersin MP Mehmet Şandır and 3 MPs; Kastamon MP Emin Çınar and MP MHP Group MP Oktay Ökal; Kastamon MP Emin Çoktay Ökal; Kastamon MP Emin Çınar and MP Emin Çınar and MHP Group MP İzmir MP Oktay Ökal; Mersin MP Mehmet Şandir; MHP Group MP Mehmet Şandir; MHP Group MP Kökıkıkı MP Kökıkı MP İsıklı and MP İnkıkklı Akakı Akakı MP İnı MP İsakı MP İsı MP İnık Akı MP İnı MP İçıtıtı MP İçıtı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçılı, and ÜKı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP Kökı MP İçı MP İçı MP Kökıkı MP İçıkıkıkıkıkılı MP İçılı MP Kökıkıkıkıkıkıkılı Akçılı Akçılı Akçılı Akçılı Akçılı MP İçılı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP Akı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı Akçı MP Aktı MP İçılı MP İçılı MP İçı MP Akçılı MP Akçılı MP Akçılı MP Akçılı Akçılı MP Aktılı MP Aktılı Aktılı Akçılı MP Aktılı MP İçılı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçılı Akçılı Akçı MP İçı MP Aktı MP İçı MP Aktı. Aktılı MP Akçılı. Akçıpıpı
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0506par0357	Mr. President, he's missed half of it, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0507par0358	Mr. Young, out of 500 words...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0506par0359	There's no 500 words, Mr. President, that's the law. That's the title, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0507par0360	Reverend, Mr. Oktay Vural...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0506par0361	500 words won't work here. That's the name of the law, that would be wrong, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0507par0362	Some were drawn by Mr. Oktay Vural. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0508par0364	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0507par0365	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Count it, fellas.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0509par0366	Mr. President, sir, that's not gonna happen. He read 50 words, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0507par0367	All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0509par0368	Mr. President, look, the Court Clerk is reading it wrong.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit06spe0507par0369	There's enough to make a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0507par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 117th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The commission and the government are in place. Now, there is a motion that requires that one of the proposals combined with the proposed bill be withdrawn, and I will have it read and put to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İzgat MP Sadir Durmaz and MHP Group MP Oktay Ökal; Kahramanmarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu and MHP Group MP Oktay Dukılı MP Oktay Ökal; Parliamentary MP Oktay Dukıoğlu and MHKıkı MP and Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament and Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament and Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament and the Minister of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Minister of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament and the Parliament of the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament and the Parliament of the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament and the Parliament of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Parliament and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State of State
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0510par0010	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0507par0011	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0511par0013	Where is it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0512par0014	There aren't 100 of them!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0507par0016	Congressmans, please... please... There are three motions made by the owners of the law proposals combined with the proposed bill, and I will have them read it and vote on it, respectively. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and MHP Group MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Law Bill and Ankara MP İdris Baluken; İstanbul MP Sena Kaleli and 5 MP İzkat Küçalı; Ankara MP Sadir Durmaz; Ankara MP İşkılı and İstanbul MP İsakı MP İncını; İstanbul MP İsakı and İstanbul MP İncı MP İncım Çam Çak; İstanbul MP İsı MP İncı; Mehmet Çağn Başçı MP İncını; İstanbul MP İncı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı; Mehmet Kıçıçıçıçı MP İsı; Mehmet Çaçı MP İsın Başı MP İsımılı; İstanbul MP İsı MP İsımımı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçııııı MP İçı MPı MPılı MP İçııılıpııılıılıılıılı MP İsılı MPı MPı MPı MPılı MPı MPılı MPı MPı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İçı MP İsıçııııılımılımı MP İsılışımılışı MP İsılışılışıpıpıpımılımımıpımımılışçımılı; Ankara MP İsıpımımımımımımımıpı MPı MP İsıcı; Ankara MP İsı MPı MPılı; İstanbul MP İsıpıı MPı MP İsıpıılıpıpıpıpıpımımımı I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0513par0026	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0507par0027	There's a roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Tüleli, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kören, Mr. Kören, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Atici, Mr. Elector, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Öz, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Sesam. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and MHP Group MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Law Bill and Ankara MP İdris Baluken; İstanbul MP Sena Kaleli and 5 MP İzkat Küçalı; Ankara MP Sadir Durmaz; Ankara MP İşkılı and İstanbul MP İsakı MP İncını; İstanbul MP İsakı and İstanbul MP İncı MP İncım Çam Çak; İstanbul MP İsı MP İncı; Mehmet Çağn Başçı MP İncını; İstanbul MP İncı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı; Mehmet Kıçıçıçıçı MP İsı; Mehmet Çaçı MP İsın Başı MP İsımılı; İstanbul MP İsı MP İsımımı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçııııı MP İçı MPı MPılı MP İçııılıpııılıılıılıılı MP İsılı MPı MPı MPı MPılı MPı MPılı MPı MPı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İçı MP İsıçııııılımılımı MP İsılışımılışı MP İsılışılışıpıpıpımılımımıpımımılışçımılı; Ankara MP İsıpımımımımımımımıpı MPı MP İsıcı; Ankara MP İsı MPı MPılı; İstanbul MP İsıpıı MPı MP İsıpıılıpıpıpıpıpımımımı I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Of Ankara MP İzzet Cet and 13 MPs; Ankara MP İzzet Çetin; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and MHP Group MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and İstanbul MP İdris Baluken; İstanbul MP Sena Kaleli and 5 MP İsakın; İstanbul MP Sadir Durmazmaz; İstanbul MP İsket Çağalı; İstanbul MP İsakıtı and İstanbul MP İncı's Akıpı's MP; Mehmet Çam Çak; Mehmet Çamıpı and İstanbul MP İçı MP İncı MP İncı MP İçı; Mehmet Akçıpın İçı MP İçı MP İçı; Mehmet Akçı; Mehmet Akçıçı; İstanbul Akçııııı MP İsı MP İsılı; İstanbul MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İçıpı MP İçı MP İçıpı MP İçıpı MP İçılıpııılıpıııııılıpıı; İstanbul MP İçıpı MP İsı MP İçıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıcı; İstanbul MPıpıpıpıpı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPı MPııı MP İsı MP İçıpııılıılıpıılıpılıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpıpı MP and İstanbul MP İsıcı; İstanbul MP İsı MPıpılı; İstanbul MP İsıpıpıpıpıpıpıpı MPııııııııııılıılı; İstanbul MP İsııııııı MPılıııııııııılıılııpıpıpıpı I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Cet and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and MHP Group MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's bill of law; İstanbul MP Sena Kalelı and Ankara's MP Şeçalı; İstanbul MP İçalı and Ankara's Minister's Party's Minister's Party; Mehmet Çağalım Çağal; İstanbul's MP's Minister's Minister's MP and Akçın's MP's Minister's MP; Şeçı İçı Akçı; Şeçı İçı Akçı; Mehmet Çaçı MP İçı; Mehmet İçımın İçı MP İçı MP İçı; Mehmet Çaçı; Mehmet İçıçı Akçıçıçıı; İstanbul MP İçı MP İçı MP İsı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçııçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçıçı MP İçı Akçıçıçıçıçıçııııııııııçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı MPı MPı MPıı MPı MPı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPı MPı MPılı MPı MP'sıçı MPı MPııııııı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPılıı MPıı MPı MPıııı MPılımı MPılışışı MPılı MPılı MPı MPışışı MP of the MP of the MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP İsıçıçımıçıçımımıçıçımıçıçı MP of İstanbul MP'sıpıpılı MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP of İstanbul MP'sı. Akçımımımısısısısım I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Cet and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and MHP Group MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Law bill and Ankara MP İdris Baluken; İstanbul MP Sena Kalelı and 5 MP İçalı; Ankara MP Şeşı MP Sadir Durmaz; Ankara MP İçaşılı and İstanbul MP İsakı MP İncı; İstanbul MP İsakı MP İçaş; İstanbul MP İncım İçaş; İstanbul MP İçaşı MP İsın Başlı and İstanbul MP İçı MP İncımı MP İçı MP İçın Başçı MP İçılı; Şekı MP İçı MP İçıçıçıçıçıçı MP İsı MP İçıçıçıçıçı MP İçıçı MP İsılı; Mehmet İçılııııııııı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçılıçılılılılılılılı MPıçı MPıçıçı MPı MPı MPıçı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıçıçı; İstanbul MP İçıçı MPı MPı MPıçıçıçı MPııııı MPılıçıçıçıçıçılı MPılı MPılı MPılışı MPılıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçılıçıçıçıçılışıçıçıçıçılıçılıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı MPılıılıııılıılıılıılııııılıılıılı MPı MPılı MPı MPılılılıılıılıılışıçıçıçı I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and MHP Group MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Law Bill and İstanbul MP İdris Baluken; İstanbul MP Sena Kala Kale; Ankara MP İsket Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Ankara MP Sadir Durmaz; İstanbul MP İzket Çağalı; İstanbul MP İzklı and İstanbul MP Çakı MP İncın's Akçı's Akçı; İstanbul MP İncı's Akçı; İstanbul MP İncı; Mehmet Çaçı and Akçı Akçı Akçı's MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı; Mehmet Akçı MP İçı; Mehmet Çaçıçııılıııı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsılı; İstanbul Akçı MP İsı MP İsı MP İçı MP İsıı MP İçıııı MP İsı MP İçıı MP İsı MPılıılıııııııçııılı; Mehmet Akçıçıııılıılıılıı MPı MPı MPılıı MPı MPı MPı MPılı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıçıçı MPı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPı MPı MP İsı MP İsıpııııııııııııılıpılıpı MPı MPı MPı MPışı MPı MPılışı MPı MPılıçıpı MPı MPılışçıpılışçıçışılışılı MPıpılı; Ankara Akçılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPı MPı MPı MPıılııııııılıılıılıııııııııııı MPı MPı MPı MPılıılıılıılışılışılışılı I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP İzzet Aslanoğlu's Party's Democratic Party of Ministers and Minister of Law; İstanbul MP İzkat Çeçalı's Party's Party; İstanbul's Democratic Party's MP and MP's MP's Party of Turkey's Party of Turkey; Ankara MP İzket Çeçı; İstanbul's MP İnclı and İstanbul's Minister's MP's Party's MP İncı; Mehmet Çağeşeşı; İstanbul's Party's Party's MP İçı, İstanbul's MP İncı; Mehmet İçıçı, İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's MP and İstanbul's Party's MP's MP's Party's Party of the Parliament's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party; Mehmet İçıpııpıçıpıpıııpıpıçı; İstanbul MP's MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party; Ankara MP's Party; Ankara MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party of İstanbul MP İçııııııııııı İs MP's Party's MP's MP's Party's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party; Ankara MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party of İstanbul MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's MP's Party's Party; Ankara MP's MP's MP's MP'sııııııııpııııııııçıçıçıçıçıçıı The motion...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0514par0079	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0507par0080	Request roll call. Mr. Yalzacebi, Mr. Süreli, Mr. Küreli, Mr. Kören, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Bastı, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Öz, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Kulkuloğlu, Mr. Aykgün, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Young, Mr. Elector. Initiating roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Moving on to QA. I read the list of questions, Mr. Light, Mr. Young, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Tülebi, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Öz, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Akçay, Mr. Special, Mr. Pine, Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Simsek. We'll start with Mr. Light. Yes, please.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0515par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you intend to add to this bill an arrangement for the restructuring of the debt of electricity and water that our citizens are patiently waiting for? Again, will there be an arrangement for the restructuring of our farmers' debt to the Agriculture Bank and their agricultural loan co-ops? Is there also an arrangement for restructuring our citizens' bank loans? Question number two: what are the reasons that contractors on the highway have not been assigned to permanent labor staffs in spite of court decisions so far? How many workers have been court-martialed in this situation? Do you plan to arrange for these workers to be assigned to the permanent staff in this bill?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0516par0102	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0517par0103	Thank you. Sir, with this law, it's more like, you know, 67 billion, which is 67 quadrillion dollars in taxes. How much of this will be forgiven according to this law? I've just been told that on the highways... look, for example, in our Elazıð, it was given to workers at the Road District Directorate, so it was given to the contractor for 44 trillion liras, but it was paid $44 trillion without any work being done. Now, there's a court order, the jobs that should be seen in permanent labor status are not seen through the subcontractor channel, but even so, this subcontractor issue has not been dealt with. It's always wrong to say that to people. Besides, it's a disgrace to the General Assembly to have such a wrong, against the Civil Code, against the law, and to have a proposal come to this General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0518par0107	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0519par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Recai Berber, chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission, has just been speaking -- I'm reading from the transcript -- a company with a basic cleaning job, not even with security, is no longer capable of running subcontractors, that's clear. In turn, we are blocking the way to having subcontractors do their actual work. He made a statement on the stand in the form of -- in detention. Well, that's how it is, for example, right now, in the House, among the subcontractors, there's a teamaker, there's a guy who works at the restaurant, we have friends who do all kinds of services. Also, again, there are friends in the market who work in subcontractors the same way. Is this all gonna go to the staff, or did Recai Berber misinformation or misinformation? Can you clarify that for me? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0520par0112	Dear Silver... Is Mr. Silver here? Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0521par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'm going to reveal this painting once again. In your speech, you have just made an assessment that nearly 600,000 workers will be unionists after almost three years of contracting. In the Employment Law, you also said that similar problems would be resolved in the Labour Health and Occupational Safety Act. 87 workers died in January 2014. 70 workers in February, 112 workers in March, 115 workers in April, 414 workers in May, 141 workers in June, 939 people died now, except those who were otherwise unable to function. Now, every time you say that, here, when the law is applied, it will be very beautiful. You make a promise that it will be very beautiful, but there is no solution.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0520par0116	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0522par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I'm going to ask you what you think of these unions. You know, there's a union called the government's aide union. This union, with the government's support, uses the power of the public to exert serious pressure on officers at the point of changing the union. Tests are only provided for officers' rights after their trade unions have been changed as a prerequisite for promotions. And while he's doing that, he's using the power of the government. What did you do about it, even though you've had several complaints about it? Now, I'm asking you from here: every time you speak as a government, you talk about advanced democracy. Does the government have a union in advanced democracies? Is MEMUR-SEN the government's union? Do you believe in independent trade unionism in Turkey as Minister of Labor?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0523par0120	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0524par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'm going to ask you three short and clear questions, please, and I'd appreciate it if you'd be brief and clear. My first question is, at the same time, the Minister of Youth and Sports, who are now in the living room: You have begun to dismantle the Tefik Secret Gür Stadium in Mersin, and what will you do instead as a government? Two: Tabheron, of the nation's stand, is the system of exploitation. You said, do you still agree? Three: You've doubled your share of health care in 11 places, will you increase it further? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0525par0127	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0526par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you believe that at the point of preventing business accidents in Turkey, occupational safety specialists and occupational physicians can be solved when they are under the supervision of employers, while they are their paid employees? Do you plan to make a new plan, a new change at the point of occupational safety as a ministry? Another question I asked earlier, prior to the Mediterranean Olympics, was stated by the Prime Minister and your ministers that the Tevfiq Sırrı Gür Stadium, which was replaced in Mersin, would be the green area. Whether or not there will be a mall here, which company will it be built by? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0527par0132	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0528par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, he asked me that question on the Commission, but I didn't get an answer. In particular, I asked you to give me a picture of what the SGK would receive from the public and especially from municipalities, and we couldn't get it. It was promised later, but I'd appreciate it if we could have it here. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0529par0136	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0530par0137	Mr. Secretary, why are you organizing the living room? Look, privatisation, publicization, subcontractorization, you're doing all this with the law. Can you explain that? And everyone's got expectations from this bag. Record amnesty, probationary freedom, academics, credit card victims, student loans, agriculture, electricity debts, whatever, everyone has an expectation. Everyone expected hundreds of offers in this bag. Do you have any idea what hope and disappointment you've caused? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0531par0140	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0532par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the workers who worked at Soma Coal Corporations, they didn't get their July salaries; they were supposed to get them yesterday, but they didn't get them today. Last month's wages were both delayed and incomplete. When will the difference be paid? Have you received the review of the work inspectors of the Ministry of Labor about the Eynez Minerry and Soma Coal Companys? AKP Vice President Salih Kapusuz said that you will not go down to the mines without security to the workers in Soma. Mr. Yıldız, the Minister of Energy, says that the workers are not going down to the mine. How would you like to resolve this contradiction? Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0533par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, on October 23, 2013, when I asked you about the forced transport of miners to a political party rally during a question-answering process, could a man not have been willing to join a party? Are we going to impose a political ban on 1 million 529 thousand businesses? When the official report of our Commission working in Soma, Parliament, I went to his wife's office. I went to his party with a press. I went to the general manager of the company, who was a member of the city's council, and I went to the meeting because he was forced to go to the rally with a price of 150 euros in gas, and the LPG vehicle, and the workers, because it was better to go to the rally than to land in the city. I went to the parliament. Do you still feel the same way about taking miners to more political party rallies?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0534par0149	Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And I want to thank all our friends who ask all the questions. Mr. Light, are you planning to add some pencils about electricity, water debts and restructuring? Of course, important work is taking place among institutions related to the restructuring of public debt, as it has been in the past years today. There are issues that we agree on today, but some issues are now in the evaluation phase. If clarity wins, we have the opportunity to share it with you, with the opposition, and turn it into a motion, but I would like to point out that the issues we've agreed on are reflected in the bill.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0536par0153	We're ready.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0154	A few questions came in regarding the court order of road workers. So far, the number of sub-employees has been 5,610, all confirmed, around 5,700, which has been finalized as a result of a court decision. It's now been established by the court, and I'd like to point out that these are the verdicts on the compensation of the actual worker or all his rights. Why, sir, this has not been resolved so far? I've just expressed from the bench, and we've fought seriously over the sides and the coming of this law to Parliament, and there have been serious assessments, debates, but believe me, there has been one issue, that is the result of the highways, that are the only legitimate conditions of the road workers; there are tens of thousands, hundreds of problems that we have to address. I appreciate that it's not easy for them to compromise and turn into a draft, but as a result, today has come to your attention. I have just stated that under what circumstances the sub-employee worker will be a sub-employee, under what conditions he will be a real worker, and in what conditions he will be a real worker, it has been clear with this bill. So, the sub-employee will work in sub-employee work, and in addition to that, he will be able to make the sub-employee or service purchase in jobs that are also involved in technological expertise and work at the same time, but other than that, it is not possible for us to do what we can say on the highway and in the Ministry of Health and in all institutions; and if that happens, he will make the judgment decision again, and he will have to employ him as the main worker. I think I can express the most joyful aspect of the bill, the fact that the lines are now clearly drawn, and that it becomes clear to me how anyone will be employed. Now, Mr. Commissioner, I didn't get a chance to listen to their testimony here, but you said that the people who did the actual work said they couldn't be employed in the subcontractor business. That's right, if a worker is not in the service, if he's not in the aid business, he's the real worker, he's definitely not going to be able to work.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0537par0156	Why don't you contribute?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0538par0157	I mean, what about the subcontractors right now?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0158	Sir, now, I told you, the lines are clear on this. Under the current judicial decisions, there is a chance to pay their compensation, pay their rights and fire them, without paying their rights -- because there is a serious number -- as the actual employee. I'm not sure that the administration...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0539par0159	I mean, give me the money, throw it away. When he gives the money, he throws it away.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0538par0160	What about the subcontractors in the House?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0161	Look, I'd like to point out that we're in the middle of a solution that gives the employee what's rightfully his. The number of union workers, according to January 2014, the number of employees...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0540par0163	You're a contractor's lawyer!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0164	Guys, I listened, you might not like it, they have questions again, you ask. I mean, now, there's so many questions, it's not fair to other friends.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0540par0165	You're subcontractors!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0541par0166	Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0167	The number of workers is 11,600,554, and the number of union workers is 1,96,540. In addition, Mr. Çelebi -- I gave him the number of workers -- made contact with the Health and Safety Act. Friends, now look, it's not a political assessment, it's a law that's been delayed in Turkey by the Health and Safety Act. As Parliament, we passed this law as a government in 2012. Yeah, it's hard work, it's hard work, it's tough work, the sides need to compromise, it's got sharp sides. We've removed this, and Europe is a regulation in line with the EU norms, with the ILO norms, and it's a proper law. Look, this isn't my saying; I've talked to the EU Commission about the discussion, about the thanks of the EU Commission, about the Plan and Budget Commission.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0542par0169	The translation is wrong.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0170	So I said, if the law is lacking, bring it, and we'll fix it. But you know what the problem is?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0542par0171	Why don't you sign the ILO Convention?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0172	Yes, he's on his way...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0542par0173	Where? Always the same, you always say that.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0174	We've signed three of them, and we'll sign two of them -- the opinion of institutions is being taken at the moment. The Law on Occupational Health and Safety is beyond the norms of ILO, fit for an EU acquish. I'm making that very clear.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0542par0176	Why isn't it applied?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0177	In business health and safety, awareness is very important, my friends. I mean, it's important not to have the minister follow the subject, to follow the general manager, to follow the inspector, or to follow the business owner, but to be aware of things that are particularly dangerous and dangerous. If we can't create this, then surely, the chain is broken off somewhere, and we're faced with these violent events, these painful events. For him, the union also has a job, a job for the owner, a job for the man in charge, and a job for the friends in charge. Another friend of ours, Mr. Ali, said, "Is it possible to get results if you make the occupational safety expert the boss's paid employee? An inspection is one thing, an inspector is another, an audit is another.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0543par0179	But he's your employer's employee, isn't he?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0180	Now, no, look, guys, let's not be unfair. Look, if there's a solution to this, we're ready to discuss it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0543par0181	He's an employer's employee.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0182	If there is a solution to this system, but if five business security experts lost their lives in Soma's case, the engineer did it to kill them. Such an approach would not be right. Their judicial process continues, there are consequences. What did these nine people do there as occupational safety specialists? What warning did they give to the employer when they received that salary? We'll see what these are when they come out. The system is the right system, there's inspection, there's inspection, there's a mining engineer who's supposed to be there under the Mining Law...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0544par0183	The system that gets your salary from the employer, it's not the right system.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0184	...there is an occupational health and safety officer, but the system's failure, the system's death, the result of the occupational illness, has put a picture in front of us that has to be examined and discovered.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0545par0185	Mr. Secretary, if the system is correct, how did those 301 people die there?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0546par0186	Mr. Secretary, the audit is one thing.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0187	Sir, look, do you mind? I don't think the system is...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0545par0188	You couldn't explain it for days, you couldn't even explain it, you two looked at each other.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0189	Sir, I'm calling all my friends. You need to tell me where the occupational safety regulations and practices are, which link is weak. Before you say that, the important arrangements that this law has brought...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0545par0190	So it's the Minister of Energy's fault?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0191	Whoever did this will answer, he will answer.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0545par0192	That's when the Minister of Energy realized it, not you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0193	Look, he's on probation, and whoever's to blame for this security is gonna pay.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0545par0194	Roger that, full responsibility for the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. All responsibility, at the Ministry of Energy and Resources, that's what I figured.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0195	Look, it's your opinion, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0545par0196	Yeah, your explanation points to him.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0547par0197	The public does the audit, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0198	I'd like to refer to it as city loans or the SGK. I want to say that we will answer in writing about other tax debts. 58.6 billion as SEC...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0548par0200	Add two more minutes to the Minister and let him finish.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0535par0201	... 24 billion in BUG-KUR, 85 billion in total. There's 45 billion dollars to be made clear, and I'd like to say that it's up to 85 billion dollars with interest and delay increases. I'd like to point out that the sum of the city's debt bases is $4.9 billion. Mr. Kaplan asked me a question about the living room. Dear friends, as promised by the Commission, we have sent the provision of the living room in the coal mines, not in the mines, and hopefully, the regulation will be published shortly. Because of the properties of coal stoves here, including the applications of the world, oxygen will be the rapid rescue exchange stations. So when an explosion occurs, our working brother, the one wearing the mask that he carries on, will be able to go to this oxygen-free rescue station after a while, and there will be a certain number of stations in order to get his new mask back on the ground, for example, 300 meters apart, if it's on the main gallery, which I've distributed to you, our friends will surely be able to evaluate. For coal mines, this practice is important, but for other mines, as you put it, the living room arrangements can be made. Payments are paid in Soma, and there's a three-day margin. When it is not paid between twenty and twenty-three, it is said that it has not been paid. It was paid last month, but as you know, we made the legal arrangement. We have all kinds of preparation for this, about payment. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It means we'll answer the other questions in writing, thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0549par0206	Thank you. Now, there are motions to have them read it and vote on it, including the request to be withdrawn from the proposals combined with the proposed bill.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0550par0208	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0549par0209	Yeah...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0550par0210	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has answered almost everyone's questions but me.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0551par0211	He didn't answer mine either.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0549par0212	He couldn't answer a lot of questions.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0550par0213	Mr. President, I asked very short, very clear questions. It was easy, but it was painful. The Minister will tell us why he didn't answer.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0552par0214	Mr. President, that's no way to behave!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0553par0215	What kind of language is that, Hodja? What is painful?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0550par0216	If he says he'll give it in writing...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0554par0217	He said, "I'll give it to you in writing."
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0555par0218	Mr. President, that's no way to behave!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0550par0219	Did it hurt you, too?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0555par0220	Of course! What kind of a thing is that to say?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0550par0221	Did it hurt you too? Of course, why isn't he answering the questions?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0556par0222	Mr. Horseman said I'll give it to you in writing.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0557par0223	What kind of a disgrace is that?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0558par0224	He's out of time, couldn't answer.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0559par0225	I'll give it to you in writing. Does it say that?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0560par0226	I'll give it to you in writing. He said, "I heard it, it's in the reports."
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0559par0227	Well, if it's on the record, it's fine.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0561par0228	No one has the right to insult me.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0560par0229	It's in the records. Yeah, I'm reading it now: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyelı MP Oktay Öçal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's; Ankara MP Izzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu's; Ankara MP Şeker Çak; Ankara MP Saklı's Akçı's Akçı; Ankara MP İzkı's Akçı; Ankara's Akçı and Ankara's Akçın's Akçı; Mehmet Çaçı; İstanbul's Akçı; İstanbul's Akçı and Ankara's Akçı İçı İsıpı; Şeşı İsıpım Çaçı; İstanbul Çaçı İçı; Mehmet Çaçı; Mehmet Çaçı; Mehmet Çaçı; İstanbul Akçı; İstanbul Akçı; İstanbul MP İçılı; İstanbul MP İçılı and Şek İçı İçııııı; Şeşıpışıpııııııpıpıpıpı; İstanbul Akçı; İstanbul Çakııı; İstanbul Akçışıııılıılı İçışışılıılı; İstanbul MP MP MPrışıpıpıpılı; İstanbul MPılıılı; İstanbul MP İsıpıpııııııııııı; İstanbul MP İsııııııııııııııııılı; İstanbul MP İsılı; Ankara MP İsıııılışıpılı; Ankara MP İsılı; Ankara MP İsışışışılı; Ankara MP İsılı; Ankara MP İsılı; Ankara MP İsılı; Ankara MP İsılı; Ankara MP İsılı; Ankara MP İsıcı; İstanbul MP İsılı; Ankara MP İsıııııııııııılıılıııııııııııııılı; Ankara MP İsışışışılı; Ankara MPrışçılı; The motion...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0562par0241	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0560par0242	Request roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Kören, Mr. Kuğoğlu, Mr. Çayoğlu, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Tanalcı, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Öz, Mr. Kulkuloğlu, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Köçal, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Elector, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Özgüşüşüm. Yeah, I'll start roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara İzzet Cett and 13 MPs; Ankara İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat Sadir Durmaz and MHP Group MP Oktay Ökalal; İstanbul Abdullah Levent Tüzel's draft for amendments in Law and Law provisions; Ankara Sena Kaleli; Ankara İzzut Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Ankara Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat Sadir Durmaz; İzmir MP Oktay Ökalalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel's; Ankara Sena Kaleli and 5 Kötın's MP'sı; Şeçı Çak; İstanbul's Şeçı and Şakı İçı Akçı; İstanbul's Şakı; Şakı Akçı; İstanbul Çaçı and Şakın İçı; Şeşı İçı İçı; Şakın İçı Akçılı; Şeşı İçı İçı; İstanbul Çakı; İstanbul Çakı; Şeşı; Şeşı; Şeşı; Şeçıkı; İstanbul Çakıııılı; Şeçı; İstanbul Çakı; Şeşılı İçı; Şeçı İçı; Şeşıkıkılı; Şeşı; İstanbul MPrıçılı; Şeşıılıılııııııılı; Şeşı; Şeşıılı; Şeşı; Şeşıılı; Şeşılı; Şeçılı; Şeşılı; Şeşııılı; Şeşılı; Şeşılı; Şeşılı; Şeçılı; Şaşılı; Şaşılı; Şaşılı; Şalı; Şalı; Şaşılı; Şılı; Şarılı; Şarılı; Şeçılı; Şarıııılıılı; Şarııııııııılı; Şarı; Şarılı; Şarıçıçıçıçılı; I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Of Ankara İzzet Çetin and 13 MPs; Ankara İzzet Çetin; İstanbul Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu; İstanbul Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat Sadir Durmaz and MHP Group MP Oktay Ökalal; İstanbul Abdullah Levent Tüzel's; Bingöl İdris Baluken's (Idris Baluken); Ankara Sena Kaleli and 5 MP's; Ankara İzet Küt Çetin's; Teşez Çetin's Grand MP Sadir Durmaz and MHP Group MP Oktay Ökalalal; İstanbul Abdullah Levent Tüzel's MP; Şeçın İsın İzçı; Şakı Akçın İsı; Şakın İçı Akçı; Şa Akçın İçı; Şeçın İçı; Şeçı İçı İçı; Şakın İçı İçı İçın İçın İçın İçıçı; Şarı; Şekın İçı; Şa Akçı İçı; Şa Akçı; Şekın İçııııçıçıı; Şa Akçı; Şa Akççııııııçı; Şa Akçı; İstanbul MPrıçılı MPrıçıçıçı; İstanbul MPrıçı; Şa Akçıçııııııııı; İstanbul MP İçı; İstanbul MP İçıı; Şar İçıııılı; İstanbul MP İçılı; İstanbul MP İçılı; Şa Akçılıçılıçılıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçılı; Şerıçılı; İstanbul MP İsılı; İstanbul MP.; Şerıçılı; İstanbul MP İsıçıçılı; Şinıcı; İstanbul MP İsıçıcı; Şerılı; Şarınıııılı; Şarılı; Şinııııııııııılı; Şin İsıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0563par0263	He's not reading my name, Mr. President. [[The motion continued to be read by Clerk Burdur MP Bayram Özçelik]] İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz's; Tekirdağ MP Bkent Belen and MHP Group Deputy Chair Mersin MP Mehmet Şandir's; Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MPs Aydın Ajan Ayayın and Ercan Cengiz's; Kars Property Birtane; Manisa Erkan Akçay and MHP Group MP Mehmet Şandir; Ankara MP İzzet Cet Çetin's; Zonguldak Ali İhsan Kokturk; Mustafa Tantın's İstanbul MP Tançı; Manisa Erkan Akçay and MHP Group MP Mehmet Şandir; İstanbul MP Şandir; İstanbul MP Şandir; İstanbul İstanbul MP Şanınımımımın; İstanbul MP Şandımımı; İstanbul İstanbul MP Şan İhsan İhsan İhsan Kütın; İstanbul İstanbul MPıtınımımı; İstanbul MP and İstanbul MP İnan Tankımımımımıtın İstanbul MP İçı; İstanbul MP İçımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımı; İstanbul MP İstanbul MP İstanbul MP; İstanbul MPımımımımımımı; İstanbul MP İstanbul MP İmımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımılımılımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımılımımımımılımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımımım
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0560par0268	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP Izzet Cetin; İstanbul Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat Sadir Durmaz; MHP Group MP Oktay Ökalt Tüzel; İstanbul Abdullah Levent Tüzel; Bingöl İdris Baluken; Sena Kaleli and 5 MPs; İstanbul Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu; Yozgat Sadir Durmaz; MHP Group MP Oktay Çukalal; İstanbul Abdullah Levent Tüzel; Çakın İdris Baluk; Ankara Kaleli and Şeşalıpı; Şeşın İçı; Şeçı, Şeçı, Şeçı, Şa Şeçı; Şeçı Akçı; Şeçı Akçı; Şeçı İçı; Şeşıçı; Şeçılı Akçı; Şeçı; Şeçıçı; Şeçılı İçı Başı; Şeşı; Şeşı; Şeçı; Şeçıçıçı; Şeşı; Şeşıçılı Akçı; Şeçııılı; Şeçılıılı Akçı; Şeşışı; Şeçılıılıı; Şeçı; Şeçıçışıçıçıçı; Şeşıçıçıçı; Şeşı; Şeşı; Şeşı Baş; Şeçı; Şeşı; Şeçı; Şeçı; Şeçıçı; Şeçıçıçıçıçıçılı; Şeşıçıçıçılı; Şeşıçılı; Şeşılı; Şeşılı; Şelı; Şelı; Şılı; Şılı; Şılı; Şıçılı; Şılı; Şelı; Şeşılı; Şılı; Şıçıçıçıçı; Şarılı; Şarıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçılı; Ş I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara İzzet Çetinin and 13 MPs; Ankara İzzet Çalanoğlu; İstanbul Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat Sadir Durmaz and MHP Group MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Law on Laws; Bingöl İdris Baluken; Sena Kaleli and 5 MP; Ankara İzket Çakın; Şeker İçekın; Şeker Çaçı; Şeşılı and Akçı İçı; Mehmet Çaçı; Mehmet Çapın İncını; Şeçı and Şeçı İçı İçıpçı İçı; Şeçı İçıpı; Şeçılı İçıçılı İçılı İçı; Şekı Akçı İçıçıçıçıçı; Şeçıçı Başıçıçıçı; Şekılııııııııııııııııı; Şekııııılıılııııııııı MPı MPılıılıı MPı MPılııılı; Şarılıılıılılılı MPılı Başılı MPılı MPılılılılılı MP MP MP MP MP MPrılılılılılılılılılılılılılı MP MPı MPı MPılı MPılı MPı MPı MPılı MPı; Şarı MPı MPılı MPı MPı; Şarılı MPı MPılı MPılı MPılı; Şılı MPılı MPıılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPılışılı MPılışılışıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçılı; Şarılıılıııııılıılıılı Başıııııılıııılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılışıçısıçıçı Can I have that one?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0564par0283	I thank you for your sensitivity, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0560par0284	Anyway, let's skip the thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0564par0285	Why? Because, look, when you're there like we interfered here... until then, Istanbul says Mahmut Tanal. What does Istanbul mean, Mahmoud Tanal? Here he has to use the statement of the MP. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Bring in the transcripts, if you'd like, Mr. Clerk...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0560par0288	Okay. I'm reading the text now.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0564par0290	So it will be understood by the minutes that the Clerk Member is not actually reading correctly here.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0560par0291	Okay, from now on, I'll take care of it, see how it's written. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm having the other motion read, please read the names of the MPs: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Cet and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and MHP Group MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel; İstanbul MP İzzet Celan; Ankara MP Sena Kala; Ankara MP İzkat Köçalı; Ankara MP Sakılı and İstanbul MP İncın Akça; Mehmet Çağal; İstanbul MP İsakı and İstanbul MP İsakı MP İsakı MP İncı MP İncın; Mehmet Köçı; İstanbul MP İsın Başlı and İstanbul MP İncımım Çaçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçın Başçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı; Mehmet Çaçıçıçıçıçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçıçıçı MP İçı MP İçıçı MP İçıçıçıcı; Mehmet İçı MP İçekı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçııılıpıııııılıpııılıılıılıpıçıçıçıçıçıçı MPı MPılı MPı MPı MPı MPılıpıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MP İçıçı MP İsı MP İsıçıçıçı MPıııııılıpılımılıpıçılıpılı MPılı MPı MPılışı MPılıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçılışıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı MPılıılıılııııılıılıılıılıııılıılıılıılıılı MPı MPılılılılıılıılışımımımımın I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Cet and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and MHP Group MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel; İstanbul MP İzzet Celan; Ankara MP Sena Kala; Ankara MP İzkat Köçalı; Ankara MP Sakılı and İstanbul MP İncın Akça; Mehmet Çağal; İstanbul MP İsakı and İstanbul MP İsakı MP İsakı MP İncı MP İncın; Mehmet Köçı; İstanbul MP İsımın İsın Başçı MP İçı MP İncı; Mehmet Köçııı MP İçın Başçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı; Mehmet Kıçıçıçıçıçıçı MP İçı; Mehmet Köçıçıçıçı MP İçıçıçı MP İçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul MP İsı MPı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsıı MPılııııııııııılıılıılıılımılıılıılı MPı MPı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPılımıçıçı MPı MPıçıçı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MP İçı MP İsı MP İsıçı MP İçı MPı MP İsıçıı MPılımılımılışılı MPı MPılışı MPılışışılışılıçılımıçıçılışıçıçıçıçıçılışıçıçıçıçıçımılılı MPımımıçıçılı MPılı MPılıılııılıılı MPılıılıııılıılı MPılıılı MPılı MPılıılılıılıılışımınımımını
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0565par0306	Mr. President, the clerk read it there as acting president of the MHP Group, and the motion says "Secretary of the MHP Group," or does it say something else?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0560par0307	MP for the National Movement Party Group..........
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0565par0308	I mean, how does he change a motion?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0560par0309	Let's do this: Read it again, read it again.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0566par0310	But, sir, that's how he read all the motions.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0560par0311	I can't do that, bro. I'm sorry. I just realized, we're fixing it because it's noticed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetinin; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Seral; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzelin; Ankara MP Izzet Celanin; İstanbul MP İzkat Çalanoğlu; İstanbul MP Şeşım Çağalıtılı; İstanbul MP Sır Durmaz and Milliyetılılı MP İzkı MP İzkı MP İzktay Çaklı; İstanbul MP Çakı MP İncüçı, İstanbul MP İncıı, İstanbul MP İncın and Aksakı MP İncınıı MP İncı MP İncımal Çaçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçı, İstanbul Çaçı Akçekıııı, İstanbul MPııı MP İsı Akçı Akçıçıçı Akı MPııııılııııııııııııııııı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPııı MPı MPı MPı MPı Akı Akıııııııııııııııııı MPı MPı MPı Akçı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı Akçışı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıçı Akıııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııılıılııılıılıılııııııııııııılıılıılıılıılılıılıılıılıııııılıılııılıılıııııılıılıılııııııııııııııııııılıııııııııııııııııııııııııılıılıılıılıılıılı I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 25th article. Ýzmir MP Musa Çam asking for the Republican People's Party Group on the first chapter. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0567par0329	You're all about the show.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0568par0330	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you with respect and love. I bow before the memory of our 301 brothers who lost their lives in Soma, and I ask God's mercy, and I ask patience for their families, and I wish health and long life for those who remain. Mr. President, I have made a pledge today on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the first chapter of the First Amendment to the Laws and Laws Act 639. And I would like to say once again, that we have enjoyed having you back in good health, that we wish you immediate healing, that we wish you health. Dear friends, this period of Plan Budget, which began on June 3rd, which is going on up to today, maybe since Turkey became the Grand National Assembly, the Plan Budget Committee has never seen such cruelty, my friends.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0569par0335	Thanks to you, thanks to you!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0568par0336	Why, Soma. It's an important law that concerns our 301 friends who lost their lives. In this regard, we have repeatedly expressed in the Plan Budget Commission, ▪ Friends, the issues related to Soma (such as 5510) that concern occupational health and safety are 20 to 25 articles. The commission that concerns them is the Labour, Health, Family Commission, where this law goes, and let the Plan Budget Commission come to 40 or 50 articles that concern the restructuring of public revenues. Let both commissions work simultaneously and let the Work, Health, Family Commission pass the Soma law and bring Turkey down to the Grand National Assembly. So, as the Plan Budget Commission, let's discuss the restructuring of public revenues in Plan Budget, and then right after that, let him go down to the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. But we couldn't explain it, and it's been five weeks in vain, friends, and now, if we're here at this time of night, I'd like to stress once again that the main reason for this is that the AKP group's deputy presidents and Plan Budget Commission executives don't manage this process well. I'd like to say once again that the subcommittee also has a great role to play.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0570par0338	Thanks to you!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0568par0339	Dear friends, the 1st and 25th articles include the lives of the relatives of our workers who died in Soma. Their futures, their families, and the subjects related to the subcontractors. So I would especially like to say a few things about what happened in Soma. Dear friends, on Tuesday, May 13, 2014, a major disaster occurred in Soma. The explosion at the mine killed 301 mining workers as a result of the fire. In literature, it is said to be called an occupational accident. I wonder, is it really? Aren't unregistered measures, inadequate audits, a freaky working relationship called subcontractors, an invitation to these disasters called business accidents? The famous Colombian writer Gabriel Garcia Marquez, whose novel "Red Monday" we recently lost, describes a murder that everyone knows but no one interferes with to prevent. Santiago Nasar, the hero of the novel, is known from the beginning to be killed. Everyone around him knows this murder is going to happen. People in town are waiting for this murder, no one is acting to prevent the murder, and as a result, Santiago Nasar is being killed. In the novel, the background of the murder points to the common behavior of a people. Dear friends, the future of the murder is clearly and clearly coming to Soma, months ago, he says: "There is murder coming to Soma. And the first to discover it is Mr. Free Special, Hasan Ören and Sakina's own friends who have also submitted a motion to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in October last year because they see the future of murder coming, step by step. By the way, there are already workers who died in Manisa, 2011. On June 27, 2011, there is Samet Güven, on August 2, 2011, there is Bahattin Akra, there is Hasan Cabaloğlu, there is Hasan Gököz, there is Murat Yilmaz, there is Fahrettin President, there is Harun Tuğal Çınar, there is Süleyman Gülshen, there is Ahmet Gülshen, there is Ali Çetinkaya, there is Yunus Asal. These workers have already lost their lives in the cave, in the mine. Soma's screaming, I'm coming. He says, and the Republican People's Party MPs who have noticed this have made a motion about it, but unfortunately the government doesn't know about these events in Soma, Mr. Labour Minister doesn't know about it, our Energy Minister doesn't know about it. I'm coming for the murder there. He's screaming. Dear friends, I'd like to give you a few numbers. Look, there's been a record of business accidents in the world since 1375, and Soma has become the 24th largest mining disaster in the world in 650 years. Germany's last major mining disaster occurred in 1962 and 299 mine workers died. Since 1962, Mr. Demiröz, there has been no mining accident in Germany. According to the latest data from the International Labour Organization (ILO) in 2012, among the leading mining countries, the highest mortality rate per worker is in Turkey, my dear friend. During the 2003-2012 period in Turkey, the death rate for 100,000 mining workers was 677 people, Mr. Minister Erdogan Bayraktar, 677 people.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0571par0347	No, why did you tell Erdogan Bayraktar?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0568par0348	This is 11 times the size of Britain and Norway, about 6 times Germany and Australia, about 4 times the size of Poland and Italy, and 2.5 times the level of the United States. Article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, approved by the United Nations in 1948, and approved by our country in 1949, states that everyone has the right to work freely, to choose their jobs freely, to work under fair and reasonable conditions, and to protect themselves from unemployment. Many national and international texts provide arrangements for workers. However, the International Labour Organization ILO is not signed by Turkey in mines 176 for 19 years... and in the 12 years of those 19 years, the AKP government is in power and Mr Faruk Çelik sits in that seat, but the international ILO Convention 176 is unfortunately still not signed. Dear friends, although many laws and regulations have arisen, today it remains the rule of free will, and although much seems to have changed, we see clearly and clearly that not much has changed over the work. Today, about 740 registered businesses employ 49,000 mining workers. There are no technical infrastructure analysis of the stoves. Many stoves lack ventilation systems, but they lack the necessary standards for emergencies. First of all, in the mines, business security must be the priority. However, in the current case, increasing production is prerequisite. It's obvious that a system that aims at minimizing costs and producing more is going to miss job security. Even though soma was said to have increased production and the cost had been reduced, unfortunately, our workers paid the price with their lives and lives. Have you ever come to the Soma of Manisa, to Alaşehir, to the 40krek, to Bergama, to the Kığuruk, Mr. Demiröz? Have you seen the cries of mothers, fathers, children, orphans? Now, you're making arrangements for Soma. What will you do for our brothers and sisters who lost their lives in Zonguldak, who came to the Plan and Budget Commission on June 3rd -- who lost their lives in Zonguldak, Kozluq? Why don't you let them in? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yes, it's nice to include Soma. But in 1983, what about our workers who lost their lives in the mining accidents in Turkey, in the business killings?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0572par0356	Thank you, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0568par0357	What kind of a double standard is that, guys? Is it possible to accept that? We submitted our motions on this in the Plan and Budget Commission, and they refused. In your time of power, nearly 12,000 people lost their lives in business accidents.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0572par0358	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0573par0359	Mr. Pine, you've been a unionist for years, what have you done to these people?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0568par0360	He says they need to be taken within that scope, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0572par0362	Thank you, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0573par0363	You're talking in the Plan and Budget Commission, you're talking in here, you're just talking. What did you do to them?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0572par0364	Mardin MP Erol Dora on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0574par0366	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the first part of the First Amendment to the Law and Law Act 639, and I salute the General Assembly. In terms of its public service, the bag bill is an arrangement that the government has made so that it can hide its responsibility for the disaster, after the job killings of 301 miners, which were one of the biggest mining disasters in the country just two months ago, which resulted in the loss of the life of 301 miners. The bill was based on the adoption of regulations that we consider to be part of populist politics, prior to the election elections of the EC PARTI, the president's election, which was announced through the media as the largest pardon in the history of the Republic, and that includes the majority of citizens involved in the bill. Dear lawmakers show that the EC PARTI (AK PARTI) should submit the bag arrangement to parliament in accordance with the legal procedure, and each time, to bring forward unrelated and non-committal legislation, to impose a last-minute motion amendment on the Commission and General Assembly's work, with the changes of the last-minute motions by the Commission and its General Assembly, to demonstrate how serious the law of the citizens is of the law that determines its rights and its law. In addition, the government, in contrast to showing a will to lift subcontractorship, added irresponsibly to the bill, with arrangements to continue the subcontractor practice, which is the main reason for the Soma worker slaughter. Mr. President, this bill has led to the exploitation of labour, unsecured labor and subcontracted subcontracted practices of the neoliberal economicism policies, such as Soma, and has made it a political propaganda tool for mining workers as well. As the EC PARTY designed local politics in accordance with the needs of capital, the workers of this country were left completely vulnerable to capital in the face of neoliberal public transformations and legal legislation shaped accordingly. Dear lawmakers have been repeatedly expressed by experts in the matter where about 90 per cent of the business accidents that occurred to over 13,000 workers who died during the EC PARTY are preventable accidents. The flexibleness of the employment regime and the abandonment of these areas at the mercy of capital have become the basic conditions that lay the groundwork for the massacres we face today. Despite such painful experiences, the AK PARTI government, which did not take precautions, found it more scientific to concentrate on the concept of "phytrate" rather than focusing on the concept of "worker safety" in its post-spoiling positions and statements. The establishment of employment of people authorized to monitor business security, which has been implemented so far and has been an AK PARTI invention, is a total busybody. It's against the nature of things when an employee can supervise their boss. Control mechanisms must be made up of independent individuals who are experts in the subject. The working hours of underground workers, including mine workers, are organised by Article 7 of the bill. In the first joke of Article 63 of the Employment Act with Article 63, the working period under ground for workers is 36 hours a week and cannot be more than six hours a day. The notice was added, but the general working period of the miners was 45 hours a week. It turns out that the bosses were granted two hours of training, ups and downs to the mines, shift change, some of the jobs they wanted to work on the ground, and the six-hour news of the soma massacre was not real. Dear lawmakers, with regulations on the 14th and 17th amendments of the bill, new exceptions are being created in Law 6331, which has not even been fully implemented yet, are being tried indirectly to render the law ineffective. The lack of independence of occupational safety experts and workplace physicians is one of the most important problems in implementing the law. Compulsive provisions are needed in terms of job guarantees for occupational safety experts and workplace physicians. In this regard, parallels are needed with the guarantee of a business union representative. The fact that business inspectors in charge of monitoring the implementation of the law are not represented in an independent organisation and that the Employment Inspection Board is a Ministry unit instead of an autonomous structure also leaves political interference in the inspection. Precious lawmakers are intended to amend Article 2 of the Law on Health and Safety, under the provision of Article 16 of the bag bill, with the aim of exclusion of vehicles for navigation and air travel internationally. With the new arrangement, flights of international shipping and air travel vehicles are removed from the scope. The reason for this approach is that there are international contracts that are subject to these activities. If these sectors, which are not included in the exceptions of the Framework Command, have been exposed to hundreds of shipmates each year, there will be no further inspection of the sectors mentioned. If international contracts meet the requirements, there will be no exceptions. The main goal, however, is the protection of the industry in competition, whether they compete or the workers die. The 12th and other articles of the bill reveal the continued fear of the government. The government, which supports illegal subcontractorization by not implementing public decisions that do not meet the need for personnel, encouraging public institutions and businesses to subcontractorise, has included detailed regulations in the bill to ensure that similar decisions do not occur in violation of the Constitution. In Article 14 of the bill, the autonomy of the collective contract of employment, the Constitution, and the international agreements that Turkey sided with are being introduced, and the obstacles to the organisation of subcontractors are not removed. On the other hand, it is against the basic principles of the Union of Public Employers' Union to conduct collective contract talks on behalf of a private company. Despite these laws, subcontractors violate workers' rights, while the main employers, especially public institutions, do not fulfil their legal responsibilities. As a result, the bill does not extend beyond the public and subcontracted rights of workers which already exist, but are violated by public and subcontractors, bringing no new rights to workers. The AK PARTY government is trying to persuade subcontractors of death to accept malaria through these regulations, bringing new rights to subcontractors with virtual news created through the media. In other words, the AK PARTY government is trying to seem to solve the problems of subcontractors with a few makeups. However, the source of these problems is the reason why workers' rights have been violated is because of subcontractorization itself. With these feelings, again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit07spe0575par0381	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0575par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 117th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The commission and the government are in place. Now, on behalf of the groups, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the Manisa MP is Mr. Uğur Aydemir. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0576par0007	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my group's first part of the First Amendment to the Law of Business and Law and the Reconstruction of Some Acquisitions. I hereby salute your high council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before I begin my words, I ask God to have mercy on our martyrs who died in the Soma tragedy, and may their place be in heaven. On Tuesday (May 13th 2014), an accident occurred at the minefield in Soma district of our Manisa. In Soma, we experienced a tangible, visible pain that we felt deep in our hearts. May my Lord never cause us and any country such great suffering, such a great business accident again. In this case, as in every tragedy, we have demonstrated the quality of being a great nation, and we have felt the pain in our hearts by sticking together, and by sharing the pain, we have tried to reduce the suffering of our brothers. Mr. President, from the moment of the mining accident, our government has mobilized all material spiritual resources in Soma. It's the same from the psychosocial support programs, and it's been coordinated in full co-ordination until the transfers are done immediately. A group of 300 people were formed to provide social and psychological support, and each of the families of our brothers and sisters who lost their lives in Soma was taken care of separately. Psychosocial support is provided at home. During these home visits, the families who have been suffering in cash have been paid 1,000 Turkish liras per household as emergency assistance starting on the 2nd day of the accident. Besides, the supply of goods, food, and rations has been distributed. Immediately after the mining accident in Soma, the work needed to be completed to deliver social security rights to the families of the miners who lost their lives as soon as possible has been completed, and the death income of 234 of our 301 miners has been completed to 632 owners and to those who have the rights of death monthly. The months of our 67 non-responsive siblings will, hopefully, be fulfilled because of the materials in this bill that we're discussing. In the event of this bill's legalisation, any debts to the Social Security Agency of the miners who lost their lives will be expunged. Five years of insurance and nine hundred days of premium payment will be lifted and the death penalty will be paid to the relatives of the miners who lost their lives. If one of the miners has no wife and children, wife and children, one of the brothers will be employed in public. In addition, it will be provided for by real and corporate individuals to provide housing for the legal heirs of our fellow miners, and that the dwellings will be given to the miners by lot, free of charge. In addition, a second dwelling will be given to create a stable source of income in the future. In addition to all of this, the 301 of our miners who were killed in the Eynez operation, will be paid by the ISKUR within this week, as much as their net fee for the 2,640 months they were still insured by that company. In addition, a total of 5,522 miners working at Atabaca, Atabaca and Light mining companies, whose activities have been halted by our Department of Labor in the Soma region, will be paid by ISKUR if the employer fails to pay their wages for three months. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, it's been about two months since the Soma mining disaster, where 301 workers have lost the lives of our nation's sorrowful brothers. In Soma, we witnessed a serious example of national solidarity in our country. Thanks to our people's charity, the amount collected in the charity account has reached $46.5 million. The families of 301 workers who have lost their lives will be divided into 154,450 euros, so each family that has lost its relatives will be paid 154.450 lira. In addition, the brothers who lost their lives in this case left 434 children in our care. Among them are our 389 children and young ones, who are in the age of education or who will receive education in the future. This will give our children a scholarship through education, through the coordination of our Ministry of National Education, by our foundations and associations, and our Ministry of Youth and Sports will give our children a priority on scholarships and dorms. With this bill, we bring in arrangements for all of our workers in the mining sector. From now on, the amount paid to miners who extract lignite and stone coal will not be less than twice the minimum wage. In addition, the retirement age of 55 will be reduced to 50. In that case, I have a 48.5-year-old coal miner who's retired under the current conditions, who, hopefully, will retire. According to current legislation, the working period is 45 hours a week, tops. With this arrangement, we limit the working time underground for miners to thirty-six hours a week and six hours a day. The miners who work underground are not allowed to do much work except in extreme circumstances. The hourly wage will not be less than 100 per cent of the normal fee for the extra work to be done in mandatory and extraordinary situations. In addition, all workers who work in the mining sector will be included in the actual service increase, as if the days were not working. The weekend holidays, general holidays, national holidays, annual vacations, health permits, training, courses, pre-work and post-work preparation will be reported to the SGK as well, and the hours will be included in wear-out. We're also taking it out on the layoffs of our underground workers. The layoff of the employee will not be without justification, no matter what its status or seniority, so that the job guarantee will be strengthened. According to our position, the job security that started six months after he got the job would have started from now on for our miners. In addition, annual leave of absence for underground workers has been increased by four days. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, along with this bill, we're making serious arrangements for our contractors and our workers. The main employer was obliged to deposit the amount of employees who could not receive the fee as a result of the sub-employee's work, if paid by the sub-employee and if not paid by the sub-employee, from the sub-employee's rights, to deposit it into the employees' bank accounts, and is also guaranteed to pay the salary. In addition, even if the employee's subcontractor has changed, if the worker continues to work at the same workplace, the permits will be calculated by considering previous studies, as if the sub-employee hadn't changed. We've also given subcontractors the right to organize along with this bill. Mr. President, for 12 years, we've signed a number of reformary regulations, which have responded to the needs of our nation, in line with the needs of our nation, and I believe we're going to continue to make more successes in the new Turkey, which is running towards its goals, and to live up to its rightful pride in our nation. As I put an end to my words, I wish this bill to bring blessings to our country, to our nation, and once again, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0577par0027	Thank you, Mr. Aydemir. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the Manisa MP, Erkan Akçay, will speak on behalf of his own person, so I'll give him 15 minutes, and we'll combine them. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0578par0030	Yes, thank you. Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on part one of Law Bill 639. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, as we all know, this bill that we discussed was announced by the power of the public that it was prepared to solve the problems of mine workers in mining operations and to heal the conditions of the workers and also to fulfill the promises made to the mine workers on May 13th. Now, this bill was submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on May 30th, and its talks began on the Plan and Budget Commission starting on June 4th, and on July 11th the top Commission was completed. We're discussing a bag bill that comes in as 61 articles, reaching 153 in total, along with temporary materials in the General Assembly. At the very beginning of my words, I would like to say that this bag of bills, which have been discussed in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, is one of the worst in terms of the procedure, as well as of some of its essentials. There's been a tragedy, a disaster of legislation, a disaster of law. Neither the Constitution has been heard, nor has the Civil Code been heard, nor has the rules, nor has the customs been heard, nor has there even been a process of legislation imposed by violating all basic human rights. It has now become clear that since May 13th, Turkey has been discussing the uncle's system, the subcontractor system, and the uncle, the subcontractor system, has also approached commissions and the General Assembly. Unfortunately, we have to say that. Dear friends, all sorts of unrelated, complicated materials were placed in the same bag in this bill. These rules have nothing to do with a clear, accessible, predictable, certain, holistic understanding; there is no regulatory analysis. The 14th article of Law No. 5018 has not been calculated. An unaccounted-for arrangement came unplanned and unscheduled. He needed to be interviewed at eight separate residency commissions, not discussed. According to ILO contracts 144, it was prepared against social dialogue. It wasn't discussed in the Economic and Social Council. There have been tensions from time to time that lead to a fight. And it's just a bill designed by the government and bureaucracy, and it's only signed by the very valuable ruling party of the Commission, lawmakers. And in the Commission, I don't know if it's conscious, but whatever it is that's being discussed -- a minister who has nothing to do with it -- represented the minister of interest in the Commission. And that really wasn't right at all. Now, dear friends of Soma. Soma, who was in the bill, insisted that the materials related to mines and mine workers be separated from the bill, even at the General Assembly's benefit, but with an unfathomable attitude, these persistent demands did not echo. And we know why. Of course, there are some things in it that can find the number 5-6. The resistance we're going to show them is going to be covered up by the Prime Minister's or the ruling party's authorities by counting some positive clauses in the election rally tomorrow. Look, sir, the opposition is trying to prevent them. After the mine accident in Soma, some of the ministers, especially the Prime Minister, and some of the representatives of the ruling party, made some commitments. It's good to remind you again. The underground mines were promised to be secured and that no one would be laid off. So, has that promise been fulfilled, as of right now, the mines are secure? It's not. That promise was not fulfilled. There's still no guarantee that no one's going to be fired, that the worker is being threatened by sent notices, and no one knows what's going to happen tomorrow. We will soon see how the financial and social rights of underground workers will be improved, and this will be watered down. Underlying workers have been promised early retirement, wages will be at least $2,000, salary will be paid six salary bonuses, work term will be six hours, and home will be given from TOİKI. Dear friends, some of these words are being watered down and manipulated. I'll give you an example. Mr. Recai Berber, I listened very carefully while I was speaking here. What did the Prime Minister say? The salary will not be less than 2,000 liras per year, there will be 6 bonuses per year. Yeah, they'll both be given, two thousand lira salary and six salary bonuses. Who are you kidding? A mine worker with a child will receive a net fee of 891 lira and 2 minimum wage of $1,782. How much did the Prime Minister say? Two thousand liras. How much do we say? Our motions will come, my friends. We say it's at least three minimum wage.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0579par0039	Say five. In five, what's going to happen?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0578par0040	Not five, Mr. Kaçir. Why don't we just say five? Fair enough. Please, I'll explain... because today in the Turkish Coal Company, at the Aegean Limits Enterprises, the actual salary paid by a public mining worker is about three times the minimum wage. I mean, that's the kind of logic, or if you ask us to do it, we won't give it to you, we'll give it to you rationally and rationally. Now, these six paychecks don't exist. And then six hours of work -- six hours -- was pretty good when it came to the subcommittee, but then the mining firms watered it by creating a huge pressure and lobby over power, they said: "The finile is working. I mean, when it's counted as the time of the pick-up and the pick-up, there's a promise in Anadou, your mother, your mother." They say, "There's nothing different" -- it's the same thing going on; it's seven and a half, eight hours. There are already workers from Gördes who travel two hours by bus to Soma, even from Gördes. These are only mines for twelve or thirteen hours. It's watered down, too. A home has been offered from the TOKI. Now, two houses will be given. It is called. We're happy, but we've learned that the firm will give one and so on, and so on, and we'll get in touch with him. Here's to subcontractorship. The miners, the ministers, the Prime Minister, the government, the ruling party officials, said the subcontractorship would be lifted, this uncleship would be removed. The ruling party won't even talk about being a chief. Why doesn't he take it? So that promise was made, and AKP's uncles didn't even mention it. I know why, and I'm going to explain them in these processes because the AKP political system in Soma., which is intertwined with the uncle's system, is working together. We're going to explain it one by one, in concrete terms in these processes. The clock is ticking, unfortunately, if only we had an hour to explain it wide, but we'll talk about it in the matter, and by the will of God, we'll have the opportunity to work it all out. We've expressed the hours. The subcontractorship, the rights, on the contrary, is solidified, the legal floor is solidified. So while Mr. Barber was talking, I was really amazed that I had a moment of concern about whether we had discussed another bill for 38, 40 days or not, and I wondered if we were wrong. It's as if they've removed the subcontractorship. It's already common cause, and the Minister says it's been going on since 1936. Thank you very much for referring to 1936, but this 1936 reference won't save you. It's a subcontractor system that's spread to its reach, across hundreds of thousands, and into millions. Let's get to the retirement system. It was given the hope that it would go back to 2008. Som-based mining workers expect pre-08 practice. There's a partial improvement, so you have to express it, but it was before 2008. We also have motions for this. What's normal, especially in underground mining, coalworks, is that we need to remove the age requirement and bring in the premium day requirement. And we're saying that the reasonable one -- that's what we're proposing -- is that there are 4,000 working days. Another important arrangement, dear friends, is that one of the families of the mine workers, whose lives have been destroyed by the accident, the disaster, is granted public employment. But, of course, our citizens, who have died in previous mining accidents outside Soma, are rightly screaming that this is not an equal and just situation. This arrangement must be made, too. On the 4th of June, when the bill was first discussed, many of our citizens based their reactions to the bill, from Zonguldak, Bart's, and other places, on that basis, they were right. The first chance you get, you have to take a fairer approach by promoting it to the general public. One worker, yes, is positive, but there's also a great benefit in hiring two people. You know, the Soma countryside area, the mine workers are people who have been cut off from agriculture, and all of them are people who support not only their own core family, but even their parents-in-law, their mother-in-law, their mother-in-law. Their failure to produce and their failure to work also leads to a very serious economic ruin. Therefore, we find it more appropriate as a social policy to give one of the rights to the spouse or child, the other to one of the parents or siblings. Of course, some consciences may not admit it, but we're sincere and persistent about it. And then there's the condition of our workers who survived or were injured in the accident underground, in the Eynez Mining pit. And that shouldn't be kept out of sight by the government. With that 301 friend's funeral, his body, his pain, those workers who suffered, there's no chance of ever working underground again, dear friends. So do our workers, but above ground, but in other areas, they have to be employed. And the rest of you, I give you all my compliments and good night to address our next conversation.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0580par0051	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. On behalf of the individuals, the final word belongs to Mr. Kamer Küçük. Here you go, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0055	Mr. President, we've been working here for 11 and a half hours. I wonder why we've been working for 11 and a half hours. They brought in a law, it's like everything but the law, it's not like the bill. The Speaker doesn't do his duty, the Commissioner doesn't do it, the government doesn't do it. We just listened to the Commissioner, and he's always lying, and he says, "These are the only things that open up to the construction site in Soma. Dear friends, I've understood, so I wondered, why did these AKP people bring the tax pardon now? You know, 87 quadrillion liras of this bill brings in a tax pardon. Now, Recep is running for President. Now, why do they want to put it back together? Now, he's opened a bank account.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0582par0057	Respect!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0583par0058	Respect, Mr. Kamer, respect!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0059	They're doing the SEC again. Now, he's going to say, "Bring him in, we'll forgive your taxes, but put some money in the account of Recep Tayyip. We know this, my friend. Don't we know what kind of donations have been made in the past with your zoning pardons?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0582par0060	You come to your son's land, your son's land.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0061	Now, then, friends, there are so many great interests in this business, so...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0582par0062	Come to your son's land, your son's land.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0063	...there are so many interests that you make these people work with so much torture.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0582par0064	Tell me about your son's land.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0065	Now, all of a sudden, we're in this country at the end of the year, there's a president's election, normally the President's election schedule has started, everyone has to go and work, but Recep Tayyip Erdogan, of course, takes advantage of all the resources of the state, and all the TVs are working for him. If you're honest, and now he's honest, let him explain to whoever put money in his own account.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0582par0066	Language, respect, respect!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0067	If this tax pardon wasn't deposited in his account, then I'd say, "Friend, I'm sorry, but he won't. Now, my friends, why did this law come, so you insist on this law? The first thing that matters here is that you're removing the jurisdiction. Here, what does the 100th article say? You have brought a clause concerning public services, sir, which is irreparable for public service, so that the Constitution may be decided to stop it, according to Article 125, which states that administrative action is clearly against the law and that it is impossible to compensate for the damage caused by it. You say there is no irreparable harm to be done in matters related to public services. Now, of course, our time is so tight that when it is so much so, you remove automatically the suspension of the execution, then you remove the criminal and legal responsibility of those who have not carried out the court order, so you destroy the judiciary. Well, while you're here as a member of parliament, you swore by your name and honor that you would not abandon your loyalty to the Constitution. Where's the honor and honor, folks?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0582par0069	Watch your language!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0070	Friends, of course, one of the biggest things behind this is that there are some places where the privatisation and the judgment are given and that need to be taken back. You've given the Sejdişehir Aluminum Facility for $340 million, the Oymapınar Dam, which cost $1.5 billion, for free. The court has decided to stop the execution here, and has decided to call it off. Well, now, Mehmet Genghis is your best friend.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0582par0071	Yes, speak properly, respect the Prime Minister!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0072	He's the one who got the biggest tenders, he's the one who got the Istanbul airport bid.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0582par0073	Respect the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0074	A citizen calls me the other day, and he says, "Sir, we're working in such terrible conditions here. "The other day, friends, a worker got caught in the swamp and disappeared.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0584par0075	Where did that happen? Kamer, where did this happen?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0076	Look, I told the press, no one's writing. We're so hungry, we work under abnormal conditions. Turkey has no law. And you do not violate your oaths. Also, there's so much corruption, robbery, so much corruption that Recep Tayyip Erdogan brought the state's most valuable properties, he gave them to the nearest -- I can't count them all one by one -- many of them have decided to cancel, to stop the execution. Now, you bring it in, you make it...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0585par0078	You talk about your son's land, your son's.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0079	After this law is passed, you will come to us, and you will take this much of our property, and bring our property, and make a donation to our account. That's why you want to settle this, or what's the point? We'll come back after the holidays, and we'll work on it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0585par0080	Get out of here, get out of here!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0081	Of course, there are so many irregularities that without people, without decency, without shame, friends can do anything. I mean, we come here every day and...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0586par0083	Do you have any sense of shame?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0585par0084	Get out of here, get out of here!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0085	We're ashamed to say those things.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0585par0086	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0087	We are ashamed to speak of your corruption, but you have yet to be ashamed of corruption. What kind of a thing would that be, guys?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0587par0088	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0089	Yeah, that's not gonna happen. There's no country like this. Okay?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0588par0090	Sit down, speak properly!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0091	Yeah, I'm not gonna sit down with you...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0588par0092	Sit down.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0093	What's it to you? No, it's none of your business!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0588par0094	Sit down.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0095	No, I'm not.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0589par0096	The Commission Report 639...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0588par0097	Sit down!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0098	Come on, sit me down.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0589par0099	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0588par0100	Tell me about your son's land.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0101	Now, sir...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0589par0102	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0588par0103	Tell me about your son's land.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0104	Who the hell are they to me?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0588par0105	Go on, sit down! Let's go!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0581par0106	Look, you're going to have to face a situation like this so you won't be able to travel in public this time.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0588par0107	Get out of here! Get out of here! Go!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit08spe0590par0108	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0590par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 117th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The Commission and the Government are here. There is a motion in accordance with Article 72 of the Civil Code on the continuation of the talks of Commission Report 639. I propose that the division talks continue under Article 72 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0591par0013	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0590par0014	Okay. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Seçer, Mr. Pine, Mr. Kören, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Tünal, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Öz, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Tureli, Mr. Kökürütük, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Öğütül, Mr. Orük, Mr. Yal, Mr. Yal, Mr. Yal, Mr. Yalçınkaya. Yeah, I'll start roll call. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Moving on to QA. Names deleted for roll call, reading: Mr. Ercoshkun, Mr. Recep Special, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. İlhan Demiröz, Mr. Okan, Mr. Vedat Demiröz, Mr. Coshkun, Mr. Gök, Mr. Citizen, Mr. Ercoshkun, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Gent, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Tülebi, Mr. Free Private, Mr. Süçek, Mr. So 24 of our friends are in the system. Mr. Light? No. Mr. Mehmet Erdogan, come in.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0592par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what institutions that have been privatised or canceled or stopped privatisation of the privatisation of this bill will be pursued by those who buy it? Will privatisation prices be updated or sold at an old price? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0593par0032	Mr. Recep Special, please.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0594par0033	Mr. President, thank you. Minister, what arrangements are being made for subcontractors and workers? Will the situation of the subcontractors improve with this arrangement, or will it get worse?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0595par0035	You still don't get it?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0594par0036	What arrangements are made for the victims of the Soma mining accident? In addition, the final question is that only 10 per cent of employees currently receive severance pay, 90 per cent of whom, for one reason or another, cannot receive severance pay. What are the obstacles to the work of establishing a severance fund? What kind of work do you do as a minister?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0596par0038	Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0597par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0596par0042	Reverends, you can't hear the words of the questioner. I mean, you can't listen if you want to.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0597par0043	Mr. Secretary, how much does a public contractor cost to the state today? How much of this cost goes into the hands of the worker? Who gets the money that evaporates in between? I mean, I'd like to know first. Two: How many miners have lost their lives in the last ten years? Is it possible that all of them, one member of each family, should be granted public employment? And the last question is, do you think there's an arrangement for the 4/C people in this bag of legislation? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0598par0047	Mr. Scholar? No. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0599par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, can a cleaning worker work as a subcontractor at a company with a public job of cleaning? If he can't work -- I just asked him again -- he can't work. You said he can't work. And if I'm wrong -- will these go on the staff? So you're lifting the subcontractor? For example, right now, there are cleaning staff working on the subcontractor at the Capitol. Are these the cleaning crews who work on subcontractors in this House after this law passes? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0600par0052	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0601par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Just now, you haven't answered the question I asked about this fellow union. I'm asking you again about this union. So do you have any support for this MEMUR-SEN as a government? Did you do anything, even though the pressure from the union exchange point came to you? I hope you'll answer on this tour. That's my second question, especially in the season of fire. Fire workers work for five months and twenty-nine days. What are they going to do for six months one day? Do you think it's right to give a lot of these jobs to contractors when there's a lot of work to be done in the forest administration? Do you have any work at the point of the recruitment of these temps? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0602par0057	Mr. Çelebi? No. Mr. Ilhan Demiröz...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0603par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the managers who join the municipal board -- such as the manager of agriculture, the county managers -- are taking advantage of the additional indicator because of the administration when they retire. Our friends, who are retired as district managers of the village services, and the district managers of the village services, are unable to take advantage of this right, and there is such injustice. Are you planning to fix this? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0604par0062	Mr. Yilmaz Bronze...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0605par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, according to the bill, the working period of our underground workers is reduced to six hours a day and 36 hours a week. The mining workers we heard at the Soma Mining Accidents Research Commission have demands that the week's holiday be extended to two days, since they have one day off a week, which is not enough time for them to rest. Do you think that in terms of workers' health and efficient work, the day-to-day hours should be scheduled as seven and a half hours, and the week-to-week holidays as two days? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0606par0066	Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0607par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, today you know that the cruel Israel has struck again and four innocent children have been shot to death on the beach. The Prime Minister has a Jewish Medal of Courage. After at least four innocent children were killed, does the Prime Minister intend to return the Cross of Jewish Courage? If it were you, if you had a medal like this, would you give it back? And the Turks are under very difficult circumstances in Iraq, and unfortunately, with more than a million Syrian Turkeys, can't Turkey take at least 5,000 Turks? Isn't that possible for the state of Turkey? Or should they be Syrian too? When it comes to Turkmen, our borders are closed, but other than that, our borders are opening.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0608par0070	Mr. Vedat Demiröz...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0609par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, do we have to work on freezing the rights of tradesmen and artists who owe money to BUG-KUR? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0610par0074	Mr. Coshkun? No. Mr. Ascendant...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0611par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, there were great difficulties in implementing the insurance of household services workers by their landlord, the employer. There's been an arrangement. The same person, who worked for him, who worked for him for more than ten days, and who worked for less than ten days, had two kinds of structures. What does this structure bring to the workplace? And when will his application begin? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0612par0079	Mr. Sky? No. Dear Citizen...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0613par0081	Minister, the Ministry of Labor has been doing a fine service since 2012. Your ministry has carried out the ALO 170 (also) communication line, which provides 24/7 service, where questions about working life are answered, complaints and reports are received, both for employees and for employers. Now, would you consider opening a centre for this in Soma? Including Soma County to one of Turkey's largest public social responsibility projects will also contribute to the development of Soma's awareness of business health and safety and the culture of complaining about setbacks.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0612par0083	Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0614par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, in the previous question-answer process, a question was asked about Mersin Stadium. I got it from my friend, the Minister of Sports, that it's been handed over to the TOKI, and it's in the savings of TOKI.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0615par0086	Isn't that the green area, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0614par0087	TOKI is an area of savings.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0616par0088	The Prime Minister said it would be a green area.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0614par0089	Sir, when the green field gives its word, it becomes a green area, but I'm saying it's an area that's in the savings of TOKI. You follow what is promised as local lawmakers, and we become his followers. If the promise is not fulfilled, it would be extremely wrong, but I'm telling you that it's now being handed over to the TOKI, and it's being saved.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0616par0090	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0614par0091	Isn't Tabheron a system of exploitation? I've had a lot of explanations about it. I'd like to point out that the subcontractor practices have become very common, and I'm very pleased to say that this statement is happening today, that it must be collected and collected and serviceed in certain areas. Thus, this widespread and widespread arrangement has really led to the exploitation of labor. And I mean that with an open heart. Today, we've wiped it out by hand. Are you going to increase your health care share? I've told you over and over again that our goal is not to make a profit out of a contribution to the health care system. See, in 2013, we have 50 billion - 50 quadrillion - health care costs as a Social Security institution. A government that spends it, a state, a government, I think you'll understand how a government feels about their contribution. I mean, you're going to spend $50 billion on one side, on the other, on the other, on the other hand, the contributions -- the very small, the hair on the camel, not even the ear -- at this point --
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0616par0093	11 is picked up, Mr. Secretary, 11 is nowhere to be found.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0614par0094	What's the point? With their contribution... it's all over the world, it's all over the developed country, and it's so much more, and those countries are expressing to us how far our healthcare system is, and they're trying to move the social security agency samples to themselves. The goal here is to create awareness -- you are physicians -- with a contribution.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0616par0095	11 points, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0614par0096	So let me take advantage of these opportunities when there is no need. Let me take advantage of this medicine. A awareness of your understanding is the purpose. Let me make it clear to you, sir, that the government is using its power, and I don't find the assessments like the government's union. The unions know, the presidents know, as the Ministry of Labor we are in direct contact with them, we have a very positive dialogue with labor unions and public employer unions. We solve each problem together, we try to solve it, and we're sensitive to all of its demands; you can't take one step closer to one than one step from the unions. I'm making this very clear. I'm making it very clear. We've responded to all the openings, all the demands that they've invited themselves, and we've made the arrangements that we've made, again, at meetings with them, transparently, and I'm specifically stating that. It's a civil service exam, and it's going through it. The exam is conducted by universities. Therefore, regarding the risings in this mission, this one has an effect. I declare that an assessment in the form of this one is not true. Besides, how much did the Tabheron worker cost? Of course, it would be appropriate for us to answer that in writing. Now, the information I've been getting about mining accidents in the last ten years, maybe there's a difference, so I'll put it as our 886 mining employee, but we'd better do it in writing. Mr. Erdogan, there's an arrangement for privatisation in the bill.......my friends, there's no such assessment, but if you read the article on this privatisation, you'll see very clearly what you want to do. Mr. Special, the subcontractors... have repeatedly expressed the actions of the mine workers... as a result of the Soma mining accident. You know a lot of things have been done. So I don't want to take up your time again. These are very important arrangements. Important improvements in both subcontractors and workers in the mine are important regulations. Simply speaking, it is vital for them that 55-year-olds retire to 43 years of age due to their 50-year-old and actual service increase. In addition, it was their high expectations that they would be included in the actual service increase of their vacations, which required permission on the ground, and they would be fulfilled. Many of our mining workers have acquired such gains. I would also like to point out that the employment of one of the families of those brothers who lost their lives in Soma will also be carried out. The severance issue was a very serious area in which we had trouble implementing it. This will be discussed during the next legislature, and I say here, an alliance will be made about the transfer of to the severance fund, because the demand for all workers to benefit from this right is unfortunately not even reflected in the labour organizations, the labour organisations are not aware of it, and they are still in favor of a continuation of an application that reflects senior compensation to the employee at 10 per cent. It's a strange approach. And since we couldn't reach an agreement, unfortunately, we haven't been able to move on to the severance fund. Mr. Tanal, a cleaning worker in parliament... look, if it's being done as a cleaning worker in the Turkish National Assembly, if it's being done as an assistant job, the workers here will still work as workers of the sub-employee; service purchase. After the final law on this is passed, after the decision of the Council of Ministers on auxiliary jobs has been made, what business is the main work, which is the co-worker's class, which will become clear, and in this way, a complex approach, perspective and perception will be removed.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0617par0105	So the subcontractorship is over in the House?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0618par0106	No way.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0614par0107	Mr. Yilmaz, five months and twenty-nine days of labor... Now, we've made an arrangement for six months about employees. I'm saying that we don't have any work at the moment on employees under six months. Besides, Mr. Bronze, they said the miners have demands to take two days off a week, not one day a week. Guys, we're lowering the hours here. So it's more possible for mining workers to benefit from the light of day. Dropped from 45 hours to 36 hours, six days, six hours of work. So there was no serious objection to this issue, but we should work for seven and a half hours and take two days off. A approach in terms of management does not constitute a negative for us, but there was a consensus under the ground about working for six hours, six days, and thirty-six hours a week, so it took its place in the law, but in the process, we can evaluate during negotiations. Now, sir, about the Turkmen... of course, as a friend of yours who's interested in foreign policy, you know it's a delicate matter. We need to get to the Middle East in our Balkan policies... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you know the sensitivity of this issue in our return policies.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0619par0114	Now let me add a minute. I added three minutes, Mr. Secretary. Now finish that question with a minute, and then I guess you'll have the rest in writing.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0614par0115	Another issue, expressed by Alo 170... is really, Alo 170 is a highly important service, thousands, millions of applications, and as a result, it contributes seriously to audits and the information of our citizens. Let's make an assessment of Soma.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0620par0116	Mr. Secretary, you haven't answered my medal question. Will he return the medal?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0614par0117	Let us consider Soma, if necessary. In a sense, in the home services, if the law is adopted on 1/1/2015, the state of house services will be insured with the approval of the Grand Assembly. Mr. Demiröz, do we have any work in the bill on the freeze of the hours and debts of those in debt? No. I mean, it's been discussed in the context of a situation where people who are not tradesmen today, who are tradespeople yesterday, and who don't take advantage of health today, can't take advantage of health. We'll also discuss whether he's turned into a motion again.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0621par0120	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0614par0121	Thank you, too, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0621par0122	Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motions on that clause, if there is one. Congressmans, we have three amendment motions for our presidency over Article 1.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0622par0124	Mr. President, I'm sorry...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0621par0125	I'll go ahead, don't apologize so I can read this. However, the amendment motions show that Mr. Oktay Vural and his friends' motions have been prepared with the exact number of rows in the header, so that it exceeds 500 words. Under the sixth joke of Article 87 of the Civil Code, there is no possibility of processing the motion, since the summary has not been added, even though it has passed 500 words.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0623par0127	Mr. President, sir, it says here that there are amendment proposals and reasons. So this text right here is all talk. So, when the lawmakers sign 100 MPs, you're just gonna ignore it because it's over 500 words? That's not gonna happen. This is the wrong procedure, Mr. President. So, in my opinion, the title is not included in the text.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0621par0128	Now, in my opinion, according to the applications, it's included in the text. What do we do now? Are we having a formal discussion?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0624par0130	I mean, it's not about the motion.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0625par0131	I mean, there's no sign that he's involved in the text, the amendment motion says.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0621par0132	Are we doing...?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0625par0133	It's a formal debate, then.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0621par0134	It's a formal debate, all right.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0626par0135	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0627par0136	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0628par0137	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0629par0138	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0630par0139	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0628par0140	Then we'll look at the report.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0631par0141	Now, wait a minute... In favor, in favor, he stood up fast, against, against.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0632par0143	Sir, let's take a look at the reports.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0631par0144	No, I saw it, I saw it this time.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0632par0145	But it's not what you see, it's what you hear, Mr. President. I mean, let's get the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0631par0146	Mr. Kubat, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Günal... Mr. Hamzacebi and Mr. Vural... do we?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0632par0148	Mr. President, before we get into this, there's something important...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0631par0149	The first word in favor of a formal debate is Mr. Kubat. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0633par0154	Dear President, honorable MPs, I have made a commitment to express my opinion in favour of our president's position in the debate of the procedure. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, in the 87th article of our Civil Code, the procedure and the basis for the amendment of a bill and proposal have been made in detail. In the 87th article, there are some restrictions on both the subject and the shape of the motions to be made. For example, there is no conditional motion, no proposal for a new law proposal, and again on the subject...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0634par0156	Oh, come on, you gave me all that, a new bill.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0633par0157	Yeah, let's be serious.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0634par0158	Yeah, well, that's what happens, that's what happens, that's what happens. It's a new law proposition, all of it.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0633par0159	In the first joke of Article 87, these restrictions were introduced, such as can be added, to be changed. Again, it's because it's written, it's signed, and the number of words in amendment proposals doesn't exceed 500 words. Dear lawmakers, the limit for 500 words here includes both text and grounds. As a matter of fact, it's 584. The reason for the amendment made by the Constitutional Commission was also read during talks with the Constitutional Commission in 1973, where, in short, 500 words correspond to a text that holds a regular 1.5 typewriter pages, rather than a page limiting, it was said that the basis of this was more adopted because it was a procedure that was applied in the exercise. It's not like setting such a limitation on the motions means limiting lawmakers' powers to propose and propose laws, which means you can also file a 500-page motion, but you're going to put a summary of 500 pages. It also explains why this was done, and in the official offices, there is a cautionary note in the Western parliaments; again, this kind of summary is facilitated by parliament's lawmaking work, and this decision was given in the Constitutional Commission's talks to prevent obstructions in order to prevent its failure to function on purpose. The Turkish Dictionary, published by the Turkish Language Foundation, describes the text as follows: "It is the whole of words that make up a text with shape, expression and punctuation. " Dear friends, in a motion submitted to the presidency, it is within the scope of this 500-word limitation that Mr. President's attitude on this issue is due to the final point of the declaration of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to the point where the request is laid down. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0635par0166	Against you, Mr Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0636par0168	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, you may say that the applications so far have been made within 500 words, but this application is wrong. The clause of the Civil Code states that the total number of words of the motions cannot be more than 500, a provision that is made by the Turkish Parliament, which is assumed by the majority power that this authority will not be removed from Parliament. Until today, until the Justice and Development Party governments, there have been no pages of law names, no bill names. You violated Parliament's legal authority with a bag of law enforcement, and you took it from him. By bringing you the names of the law, which exceeds 500 words, you are in violation of the decree of Article 87 of the Civil Code itself. Then, you say to the MPs: "You cannot make more than 500 proposals. First, you respect that clause of the Civil Charter, do not apply it under the name of law enforcement; so long, no pages of law, no billing. You're going to do it yourself, and you're going to say that we can't put this motion into effect if the lawmakers write the bill's full name in order to present their own wishes and proposals, just for a second, when you write the name of this bill, it's more than 500 words, just that name alone, so we can't put it into effect. There's no way to accept that. First, you, change your illegal application, change your bag of legislation so that the 87th article of the Civil Code can be applied normally. I don't accept that. This may be the way it's been applied until today, but no bag of legislation -- even in the law -- has ever been so full of pages. I reject that understanding. I have 30 seconds, and I want to say a few more things: the chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission came up here, said things that were not true, said things that were untrue; we kept every promise we made. You didn't. When Mr. Recai Berber himself came to the Republican People's Party Group with Somalı workers, our prime minister promised 2,000 liras and six salaries. You broke that promise, Mr. Barber, you said it in the Republican People's Party group hall.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0637par0170	I'll tell you what I said there.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0636par0171	There's still time, I don't have time, sorry. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I have other things to say, and I'm going to continue this later or tomorrow. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0638par0176	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0639par0177	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0638par0178	Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0639par0179	Mr. President, he's been picking on me.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0638par0180	Sir?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0639par0181	There's a taunt, I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0638par0182	Yes, please.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0640par0183	Mr. President, just a second, what was I picking on?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0638par0184	No, anyway, you'll be bullied after that.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0641par0185	You said he's lying. You mentioned his name.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0642par0186	He's lying. You're lying.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0638par0187	Now, look...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0643par0188	Mr. President, sir, you have to listen to me for a second.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0638par0189	I'm listening.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0643par0190	You, Deputy Speaker, do not have the right to make a promise to a congressman without the grounds for bullying, sir. What word did I pick on you with?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0638par0191	He didn't speak the truth. You said he didn't speak the truth here. You said he didn't. So, I listened to you very carefully...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0643par0192	No, I said you didn't mean the truth, so how is that a tease?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0644par0193	What does that mean?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0638par0194	Okay, well, I guess he's gonna have to say that he's telling the truth.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0643par0195	Mr. President, sir, the 69th Amendment of the Civil Code is very clear, which, in any case, defines bullying, in that frame, if he makes his own request, you can give it to him, but I didn't pick on him.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0638par0196	Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0643par0197	If he claims I've been there, let him put it out there himself. Mr. President, you can't, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0638par0198	Okay, just a minute. I'll pick you up, I'll listen to you later. Go ahead. But when I watched the talks very carefully, I gave you my word, especially without asking for any reason, because when I was watching it, I mean, when I wasn't hearing it, sometimes, there's talks, you can't watch it, and then I asked. I've met the demands of the opposition lawmakers at the most, but you say it's wrong. You're right, I'll listen to reason from now on, the things I've done so far have been wrong. Now, Mr. Barber, why do you want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0645par0201	Mr. President, one second, you've said something to me, so if you'll excuse me, I'll give you my answer.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0638par0202	Yes, please.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0645par0203	I didn't say your practices were wrong until today. I didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0638par0204	No, I said it was wrong...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0645par0205	Let me finish, sir, if I may. Now, you say to me, Mr. Hamzacebi. I promised you, without asking, when I stood up.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0638par0207	No, I said when I was listening, I said when I was listening.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0645par0208	The same attitude, now...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0646par0209	He doesn't want to understand!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0645par0210	Allow me to finish, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0647par0211	No, I'll give it to you, and I've opened it up to parentheses.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0645par0212	Sir, but it doesn't work when it's mutual, you see, and then you start with lahavle vela.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0647par0213	That's a good thing, God give strength.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0648par0214	You misunderstand the president's testimony, what should he do?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0645par0215	Will you shut up, I'm talking to Mr. President. Mr. President, I'll make this brief. You can ask anyone, it's your right; when you give it to me without asking, I think you've already understood why I'm asking, but since I object, you must ask the speaker, Mr. Berber, who requested, the reason for the bullying.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0649par0217	That's where I sent it, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0645par0218	I didn't pick on him, sir, let him explain himself, let's see, maybe I'm not aware.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0649par0219	Here, okay, I'm just doing what you said, there's no problem here. Yeah, what do you want to talk about?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0650par0221	Mr. President, I've been there during my visit to the Republican People's Party Group with the workers' delegation from Soma, yes, and there have been a lot of talks, and they said that none of this has happened, and that one of them, in particular, we made a promise of over $2,000.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0651par0222	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0650par0223	I want to tell you the real situation about this.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0652par0224	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0651par0225	No, sir, look, I'm not telling you the real situation... [[Sit down from the AK PARTY lines!]] Mr. President, look... [[You're being disrespectful from the AK PARTY lines.]] I'm not being disrespectful.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0653par0230	That's enough, shame on you!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0654par0231	Sit down!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0655par0232	Congressmans, please, please...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0656par0233	Mr. President, I'm talking to you, sir, there's a screaming mass here, and I'm not talking to them.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0655par0234	That's right.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0657par0235	Mr. President, are you holding someone hostage, the General Assembly?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0656par0236	Sir, if Mr. Berber says, of course, you will promise, that Hamzacebi says I said that, even though I didn't say that. If he says that, of course...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0655par0238	Now, wait a second, wait a second... Mr. Barber...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0656par0240	Mr. President, would you please shut that mass down?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0658par0241	Get me the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0655par0242	Mr. Barber, I get the point. Now...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0656par0243	That's what Hamzacebi says, even though I didn't say so.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0655par0244	Look, he's making it clear. Now I didn't say that, he says. That's what you said, that's what I heard. Now I'm going to ask for the minutes. I'm so sorry. I'll take it this way. In the meantime, I'll take the minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0659par0247	Mr. President, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0660par0248	That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0661par0249	You can't take him off the stand twice.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0662par0250	I'm waiting, I'm not going, I'm here.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0663par0251	There's such a thing as shame. Twice on the stand, you send him back. You've captured a member of the General Assembly here. We've been waiting for 20 minutes! Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0664par0252	Mr. President, since it creates something negative... Guys, wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0665par0254	Now, he said something important, I didn't say that. He says that. Look...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0664par0255	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0666par0256	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0665par0257	Reverends, there's one...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0666par0258	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0665par0259	Just a second... can I finish?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0667par0260	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0665par0261	Look, I'm telling you now because you object. He says: I didn't say that. When he said that...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0668par0262	Haven't you heard, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0669par0263	Mr. President, you've been down on the stand twice.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0665par0265	Look, there's something else... Mr. Aydın, I want you to take your friends... That means that one person, the keenlemek, is saying that there is no such thing. Now...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0670par0268	He mocks our minds, mocks our party.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0671par0269	No, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0665par0270	Just a second... for God's sake! It doesn't matter for two minutes, but I mean, I'll give you two minutes, we'll go on, we'll go on, we'll sit till five, I don't mind. But what I'm trying to say is, Mr. Hamzacebi, I didn't say that. When he said that...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0671par0271	No, sir, I didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0672par0272	He doesn't know what he's talking about.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0671par0273	Mr. President, I'm saying that I didn't say that. I didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0673par0275	What did you say? That's what I figured.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0671par0276	Sir, but that's how you yell, and my friends are having trouble getting to you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0674par0277	Sir, he doesn't know what he's talking about since morning.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0671par0278	I said, sir, that I reminded Mr. Berber of a saying he said when he was in the Republican People's Party group hall. If Mr. Berber is not telling the truth, I didn't say that. If he says that, of course, there's teasing, he has a say, but he didn't say that, I'm saying that.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0675par0279	Here you go. Mr. Barber, I apologize to you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0676par0281	You're welcome, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0675par0282	I mean, your friends are so excited.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0677par0283	But no, Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0678par0284	And those who scream apologize to you, my friends over there. There were people waving fingers at you, we saw them, we wrote them down.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0675par0285	Yes, please.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0679par0288	Mr. President, thank you. Dear friends, at this time of night, I don't think anyone knows exactly what they're saying. Mr. President heard it, I heard it, I came especially. When I was giving my own speech, you said, referring to my speech on behalf of the group, you said, "That's what you're saying, you've had an unrealistic conversation here. Isn't that so? Otherwise, you didn't refer to the group meeting, you referred to my speech here, and I referred to the group meeting here, and in that speech, it was not exactly where or where these workers were, when they came to Ankara, when they met with our ministers, during their talks with our prime minister, that the salary they received was around 1,400 lira, that this was low, so that this would be $2,000.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0680par0290	Yeah, it's supposed to be $2,000, six bonuses...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0679par0291	Hold on, I'm telling you, hold on a second. If there were six bonuses, I'd say it could only go up to two thousand liras.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0680par0293	No, it's a lie! Two thousand liras, six bonuses. It's wrong, it's wrong!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0681par0295	Fear God! 2000 liras separate, 6 bonuses separate.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0682par0297	Yeah. It was like you were there. Dear friends, we are now on the Plan and Budget Commission... with this law, to the miners, to the workers who work underground...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0683par0299	Pity, you can't do it!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0682par0300	...we put the price on the law, not less than twice the minimum wage, and the fee in this law is not under 2,000 liras, but around 2,200 liras, at the present minimum wage.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0684par0301	$1,780, 1,780.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0682par0302	Therefore, this promise has been fulfilled. Besides, if it comes to bonuses, it's not about the law, it's about collective contracts, it's about unions...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0685par0303	You didn't say any of it, you didn't say any of it. You're giving me false information!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0682par0304	Please, this has all been discussed. I'm here to...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0685par0305	This has not been discussed!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0686par0306	No, no!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0687par0307	That's not true!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0688par0308	Dear friends, that's what this is all about. So right now, after this law, there are no miners left to charge less than twice the minimum wage, so there will be no less than 2,000 liras. Thank you, Mr. President, that's the truth.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0689par0311	Turns out who wasn't telling the truth.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0690par0312	Sir, now look, he's made a commitment on the grounds of bullying. In fact...
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0691par0313	What picked on you? He made a statement, he didn't pick on me.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0692par0314	What did he say and pick on you?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0690par0315	No, I respect him, he's out, he's spoken, but when Mr. Berber came into the Republican People's Party group hall, he came with the Soma workers. He didn't leave them alone, so they could feel a power pressure on us, so they wouldn't complain too much about power. So we said to come in, welcome, come in and talk. Now, what he said there -- I'm there, our Manisa MPs are there -- Mr. Prime Minister asked: How much do these workers charge? He said 1,400 lira.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0693par0317	You think you're a blessing like a bean!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0690par0318	Let's say that's less than 2,000 liras. He also said, "Let's pay six bonuses." He said, "The Prime Minister said so."
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0694par0319	And it's not.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0695par0320	That's right!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0690par0321	Mr. Barber's wheeling here, it's called wheeling. There's a report signed by the workers, all signed here, wet signed text here, our friends. Here are the Prime Minister's promises: $2,000, plus a six-pay bonus. Yeah, well, we're used to the wheel of power, and we're not surprised.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0696par0322	Yeah, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0697par0323	I condemn you with regret. Your nervous coefficient is elevated. You can't call the lawmakers "the kilet." It's disrespectful, I condemn you!
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0690par0324	I'm not even answering.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0697par0325	You can't, you never can.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0698par0326	Yes, it's in favor, Mr. Aydın. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0699par0331	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, at this time of night, nerves may get a little tense, but he has to understand who, what, how he talks. Now, Mr. President, first of all, I have made a commitment in favor of your position regarding the procedure debate that just went down. Because we, the Parliamentary General Assembly, have been operating on Parliamentary Conventions and Parliamentary Conventions where the Civil Code and the Civil Code have been inadequate, and so far these practices have been so. However, the 87th article of the Civil Code, which regulates the amendment proposals, has clearly, in a very specific way, arranged it. See, in Article 87: change proposals are given on grounds. If the amendment proposals and grounds are more than 500 words, the motion maker must add a summary of the motion that does not exceed 500 words. Yes, you can make a 500-word proposal, a thousand-word motions, a process, but if it goes through 500 words, including the entire text, the title, and the reason for it, if it exceeds 500 words, you have to add a 500-word report, a summary, and that summary is read there. In the process, you may have more word proposals. So you have to add a summary report that will explain your value in response to this motion that exceeds 500 words, and this summary report will be read there. Now, this is the first one. It's very clearly arranged. Here's the phrase of the text that Doğan Kubat has expressed to you from the dictionary of our friend the Turkish Language Foundation. It contains all the words, including the title in that text, along with all the reasons, this one. Second: Now, we're discussing the Commission report here, where the number of lines has been taken. Instead of counting the entire title, can't you say that the bill of law, the bill of law, whatever it is, is changed? You can say that. It's very clear, the number of rows are set, and so far we need a lot of motions, and we need you to give them that way. With the number of rows, you can clearly express this motion. Therefore, one's right should not be abused, one's right should not be misused. If it's really meant to express your meaning, if the motion is to express the text, then you have the right to an appreciation to keep the title short, but you have to add the report, the summary of the motion over 500 words, which you have no appreciation for. So we have to act accordingly. Otherwise, here, let's say 2,500-3. We've been given motions for a thousand words, all of which, if we present in this way... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that the original Parliament will be interrupted, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0700par0338	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0701par0341	Thank you, Mr. President. The debate here is not necessarily a summary of 500 words in case the amendment motions are more than 500 words. Yeah, well, when it's over 500 words, it needs a summary. What we're discussing here is whether the title is included in the amendment motion. Otherwise, of course, if it's over 500 words, it needs to be briefed. If you look at it that way, is this title included or not? It says: The amendment proposals clearly specify the provisions that are asked to be changed, removed or added. We don't want change in the text of the law! We don't want to change the name of the law, but we're going to mention the name of the law. After we mention the name of the law, we propose a amendment, which is 500 words less than 500 words. So, if you bring in soup like this, law, bag of law, you name non-including motions, you name a freak like that, that's what happens. Well, we have the right from the Civil Code, so why not mention his name? Isn't it the right of those MPs to read the names of the MPs who made the motion here? Why do you read when the government's bill is read and the name is read, dear? So, in our opinion, this text does not include the name. In that regard, when you look at these issues, there is no further, obviously, in the amendment proposals, there will be no unopened motions to apply. The sentence must be carried out in the same way. We're going to put examples of this, too. In that respect, the matter is being discussed... Now, 100 MPs have signed the motion, Mr. President, 100 MPs, what do we do? I mean, 200 lawmakers signed the motion, the names of the MPs, are included in the motion or not? Now, does that include the congressman's names? It's not.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0702par0347	Now, the first five signatures are being read, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0701par0348	Well, don't read it like that, but I've given over 100 MPs over 500 words, so will you ask for a summary? No. So, in our opinion, the title is not included in the text, the result of the amendment motion is a complete change in the text of the law. So I think it's right that the title is assigned to 500 words without being included in the text. That's my supply, and I've been promised against it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0703par0351	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Members of parliament, Article 87 of the Interior Charter has stated that the amendment motions will be given on grounds of the sixth article of Article 87, and that if the amendment motions are more than 500 words, it is mandatory to add a summary that does not exceed 500 words to the motions. The amendment added to the Article in the Constitutional Commission is based on the following: "the motions to be submitted are conditioned to add a summary that does not exceed 500 words. This limit includes both text and grounds. The summation helps to be understood by the General Assembly as to the original intent of the owner of the motion itself. Because even if long texts are read or read, they are hard to follow. A member who listens or reads the motion summary will easily understand the purpose of the motion owner. If he's interested in the motion, he can read the whole proposal for broader information, and with that speed, the chances of the motions being accepted increase. This verdict will deliberately provide long motions to prevent obstructions that result in the failure of the House. The summary will be printed and distributed to members according to the Article. The summary will only be read in the Parliament and the original text will be added to the restraint. The amendment motion on the 1st article, issued by İzmir MP Oktay Vural and his friends, exceeds 500 words as the number of rows is used. The amendment proposals, the introduction to the presidency, the proposed text, the motive for the change, and if there is one, are allocated with the addendum and the ruler. Hitap is only part of the "President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey." The draft or proposal and clause of the proposed amendment is included in the proposal text. In the same way, lists and rulers, such as text-based staff, settlements, are included in the proposal text. On the other hand, according to Article 23 of the Civil Code, the text the General Assembly is based on the meeting is the text adopted by the original commission. The title in the text adopted by the Commission is the title of the bill. When there is a shorter title to express the bill, you must leave the appreciation of using the long header of the number of rows to those who have proposed the Civil Charter. According to Article 87 of the Civil Charter, a summary should be added to the proposals passed 500 words, so that we may be able to process it if the number of rows or the basic number of legislation is shortened by specifying the title. There has been no change in the position of the president as a result of the formal discussion of the frame I explained upstairs.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0704par0359	I'd like to use appreciation, then.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0703par0360	Sir?
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0704par0361	I mean, I want to use that kind of appreciation.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit09spe0703par0362	Wait a second... Congressmans, although I have tried to use a very careful language in the House for two days, although I have tried to treat each of you separately in a respectful frame, for eight years, without speaking to anyone, without using any command mode, as a person who has been trying to run this parliament, as a person who's been targeting my person for two days, every word that goes beyond the office of respect, I'm returning to individuals, the behavior, the finger, the movement of orders. And from now on, I'd like to say that I'm going to respond to the same behavior as any other agency outside of the House of Respect. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-16sit10spe0703par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 117th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin negotiations with Human Rights Review Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which are part of the 5th agenda, in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the disabled. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Members of parliament, it has been noted that the Commission cannot be present in the General Assembly talks. In accordance with the decision taken, it is Thursday (July 17th 2014) at 14 p.m. to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with the bill and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
